Corporate governance report Schroders is a firm that focuses on the long term.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce this Corporate of our new building.
We were also able to celebrate with our th Governance report in which we describe the Companys compliance Singaporean colleagues the 50 anniversary of the founding of with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, the Singapore as an independent state.
Our visit enabled us to meet operation of the Board and its Committees, and how the Board and spend time with senior management from around the Asia Pacific has discharged its responsibilities over the year.
region, some of our key clients, commercial partners, regulators and, most importantly, our employees.
I am pleased to be able to report that Culture and succession planning the strength of the Schroders corporate culture was evident throughout.
As I said in last years report, we have a robust and effective governance framework.
This was validated by our Internal Audit team, Succession planning has been a long-term priority for us.
In the who following their audit reaffirmed the strength of our framework.
As Nominations Committee report I explain in more detail the main vital as an effective governance framework is, we are dependent on changes, the rationale for those changes and the process we went our people to embed our culture throughout the organisation.
It can through in reaching our decisions.
Schroders is a firm that focuses be difficult for a board to assess the extent to which the culture and on the long term and which thrives on stability and continuity.
These values the board and senior management extol are truly operating.
were important factors in our deliberations.
I am sure that our focus One of the ways through which our Board took comfort on this in 2015 on doing the right thing for our clients, our employees and our was through the Employee Opinion Survey which had culture as a shareholders will continue.
The results of the survey are covered in more detail on page 22.
The Board discussed the survey results in detail at its meeting in July and was particularly impressed by the strong positive Andrew Beeson link between our employees and our culture.
Chairman Another way in which boards can gain an insight into culture is by meeting employees, particularly those from overseas.
We held th our November Board meeting in Singapore to coincide with the 40 anniversary of the opening of our first office there and the opening 50 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board attendance during 2015 Compliance with the UK Code Throughout 2015, the Company has applied the principles of Number of Number of meetings eligible meetings the UK Code and complied with its provisions with the exception Member to attend attended of the following: Andrew Beeson 5 5 Executive Directors Code provision B.
1.2: The Board does not currently comprise Michael Dobson 5 5 a sufficient number of independent non-executive Directors to Peter Harrison 5 5 comply with this Code provision.
The new Chairman will be Richard Keers 5 5 reviewing the composition of the Board and will lead the search Philip Mallinckrodt 5 5 for any new non-executive Directors.
Massimo Tosato 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Code provision E. 1.1: The Senior Independent Director did 1 Ashley Almanza 5 4 not attend meetings with major shareholders during the year.
2 Luc Bertrand 1 1 However, he is available to meet with shareholders when required Robin Buchanan 5 5 and would initiate such meetings if he became aware of any 3 Rhian Davies 3 3 issues or concerns which required the attention of shareholders.
Lord Howard 5 5 The Senior Independent Director led the discussions with major Nichola Pease 5 5 shareholders in the first quarter of 2016 over the decision to Bruno Schroder 5 5 appoint Michael Dobson as Chairman.
1 Ashley Almanza was unable to attend one Board meeting during the year due to a previous commitment.
Copies of the UK Code can be obtained from the FRCs website 2 Luc Bertrand retired from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
3 Rhian Davies was appointed to the Board on 22 July 2015.
Committee meeting attendance is set out in the Committee reports.
The Board and its Committees Board composition and diversity The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate and performance of the Company.
It is authorised to manage the balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors business of the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles and Directors who have a connection with the Companys principal of Association, which may only be amended by special resolution of shareholder group.
No individual or group of individuals is in a position shareholders unless the Articles specify otherwise.
Some decisions to dominate the Boards decision making.
can only be taken by the Board, including the Groups overall strategy, significant new business activities and the strategy for the As at the date of this report our Board comprises 12 Directors, made management of the Groups investment capital.
These are contained up of the Chairman, five executive Directors, five independent in the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board.
Under the non-executive Directors and one non-executive Director not deemed Companys Articles of Association all Directors have the right to to be independent.
Biographies of each of the Directors are set out on convene Board meetings.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board As at 31 December 2015 and at the date of approval of this Annual committees, notably the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Report, we had two female Directors on our Board which represents Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Membership of each 17 per cent.
of our total Board membership and 29 per cent.
of our of these Committees is set out in the respective Committee reports.
We are aware of the importance of having At the discretion of the Board or relevant Committee, senior gender diversity, as well as other factors such as international diversity, management are invited to attend meetings and make presentations on the Board and throughout the Company as a whole.
We have on developments and results in their areas of the business.
considered gender diversity as part of our discussions on talent management.
Whilst fully supporting the principles of diversity we The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and each of the do not believe that introducing quotas is the best way to achieve this.
Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys The success of internal executive succession planning is highly reliant website at www.
These are reviewed periodically on the management of talent within the organisation, something the to support the Directors in discharging their responsibilities.
In addition, the Company has a number of initiatives in place to strengthen the pipeline of senior female The diagram on page 52 illustrates the Board and Committee executives within the business and is taking steps to ensure that there structure including how authority is delegated from the Board to are no barriers to women succeeding at the highest levels.
For further specific areas and how independent oversight is organised.
There is also a Chairmans Committee whose membership is comprised of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans Committee met twice during the year.
Topics discussed during those meetings included strategy, culture, succession planning and feedback from the 2015 Board evaluation.
The Chairmans Committee is not a Committee of the Board.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 51 Corporate governance report continued Governance framework Governance framework Executive Committees Executive staff Board Independent oversight Committees composed entirely of non-executive Accountable to Directors shareholders for the creation and Direct access to the Audit and delivery of strong, Risk Committee sustainable financial Secondary reporting line performance and long-term shareholder value Chief Executive Nominations Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for the management reviewing and reviewing and overseeing financial of the business recommending recommending the reporting, risk and strategic changes to the remuneration strategy management and development composition of for the Group and the internal controls the Board and remuneration policy and external audit its Committees for the Directors Group Management Chief Financial General Counsel Committee officer Assists the Responsible for Responsible for the Chief Executive financial management, Groups compliance, in discharging his capital management, legal and governance responsibilities.
human resources, functions Functional oversight of risk responsibilities and systems of delegated to internal controls individual members Group Capital Group Risk Group Head Global Head of Group Head of Wealth Management Committee Committee of Risk Compliance Internal Audit Audit and Risk Committee Assists the Chief Assists the Chief Identies and quanties Assists the General Provides independent, Financial officer Financial officer risks before and after Counsel in promoting objective assurance Responsible for in the deployment in discharging his mitigation and monitoring to management overseeing financial of operating and responsibilities compliance with and to the Audit reporting, risk investment capital in respect of risk regulatory requirements and Risk Committee management and and controls and relationships with in respect of risk internal controls in the regulatory authorities management, controls Wealth Management and governance business processes Reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Composed of independent non-executive Directors of Schroder & Co. Limited.
52 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Key areas of focus during the year The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He is responsible for creating Secretary, maintains an annual rolling agenda which sets the an environment for open, robust and effective debate.
This includes framework for Board meetings so that the Board covers an ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear appropriate range of topics from matters of strategy and reviews of the information in order to discharge their responsibilities.
He is also Groups businesses and operations through to more routine business.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee responsible for succession planning.
With the appointment of Michael Dobson as Chairman Each Board meeting receives a report from the Chief Executive on the the role will include a greater focus on relations with major clients, performance of the business, the Chief Financial Officer on financial shareholders, strategic and commercial partners and regulators.
performance including investment capital and liquidity and, where relevant, each of the Board committees.
In addition to these regular The Chief Executive has the delegated authority of the Board for the matters, specific areas of focus by the Board during 2015 included: management of the overall business and the strategic development of the Group.
He is assisted by members of the GMC in the delivery Meeting dates Key areas of discussion of his and the Boards objectives.
The GMC normally meets fortnightly March Annual report and accounts, dividend proposal and the members of the GMC and their respective areas of and Annual General Meeting responsibility are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Global Distribution May Investment strategy and value proposition Role of the Senior Independent Director and Client longevity non-executive Directors UK savings market evolution The role of the Senior Independent Director is an important part Wealth Management of the Groups governance structure.
July Halfyear results and dividend proposal Philip Howard was appointed the Senior Independent Director in Multi-asset April 2015, when Luc Bertrand stepped down from the Board.
Philip Key Risks, Risk Appetite and ICAAP Howards role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman, oversee Employee opinion survey the evaluation of the Chairmans performance and serve as an September Fixed Income intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available Talent management, diversity and succession as an additional point of contact for shareholders should they wish Operations and IT to raise matters with him rather than the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Information security Philip Howard is fully aware of the importance of the role of the Senior Appointment of the external auditor Independent Director, particularly in light of the appointment of the November Asia Pacific including country reviews and current Chief Executive as Chairman.
consideration of our regional Distribution, Equities, Fixed Income and Wealth In addition to overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy Management businesses within the risk and control framework, the non-executive Directors 2016 Budget are collectively responsible for constructively challenging the Charitable donations performance of management whilst satisfying themselves of the integrity of financial information, and that financial controls and risk management systems are robust and appropriate.
The non-executive Directors participate fully in open and constructive Board and Committee meetings and their views are actively sought, particularly when developing and setting strategy.
The UK Code requires that at least one member of the Audit and Risk Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that both Ashley Almanza and Rhian Davies satisfy this requirement.
The Board also considers that the Audit and Risk Committee has competence in the asset management sector.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 53 Corporate governance report continued Director appointments, tenure and time commitment Board induction and training The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election and The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Chief Executive the removal of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of in providing a personalised induction programme to all new Association.
Non-executive Directors are expected to serve two, three Directors.
This helps to familiarise them with their duties and the year terms, although the Board may ask a non-executive Director to Groups businesses, culture and values, operations, risks and serve an additional three year period.
Where an appointment extends governance arrangements.
beyond six years, continued appointment is subject to particularly rigorous review, taking into account the need for progressive Following Rhian Davies appointment in July 2015, she received a refreshing of the Board.
Under our Governance Guidelines, all comprehensive induction, which included a series of one-to-one Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
This included meeting all members of the GMC to gain an insight into and understanding of opportunities Non-executive Directors letters of appointment stipulate that they and challenges facing their areas of the business.
In addition to are expected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties.
receiving information on Group strategy and the business model, The Board considers the time commitments and, where relevant, and in recognition of her joining the Audit and Risk Committee, the independence of all Directors standing for election or re-election Rhians induction also focused on the three lines of defence model before making a recommendation to shareholders.
The Board has operated by the Group and the Groups capital requirements.
In adopted a policy that does not normally allow our executive Directors particular, meetings were held with management within the Finance, to take up more than oneexternal non-executive directorship.
Tax, Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit functions, as well as with Non-executive Directors arerequired to notify the Chairman before the external auditors.
taking on any additional appointments.
The Board believes firmly in the development of its Directors and Details of executive Directors service contracts and termination continuing education is an important aspect of the Boards agenda.
arrangements and non-executive Directors letters of appointment Briefing sessions are arranged each year which, during 2015, are set out on page 76. included a presentation from the former president of the Royal Society, Lord Rees of Ludlow on The World in 2050, reflecting Independence our long-term focus.
The Board considers all of its non-executive Directors, with the exception of Bruno Schroder, to be independent under the criteria My induction was helpful, open and in the UK Code.
All are independent in terms of character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship that transparent.
It provided me with an could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
understanding of the Group, its business model, operations and controls and a Bruno Schroder does not meet the test for independence under the UK Code given his relationship with the principal shareholder group valuable insight into the Companys culture.
and because he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Despite this, the Nominations Committee believes that the experience Rhian Davies Bruno Schroder brings to the Board continues to add value to the Board and Nominations Committee discussions.
The Board therefore will recommend his reappointment at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
54 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Board effectiveness and evaluation Company Secretary The Boards performance and that of its Committees and Directors Graham Staples, the Company Secretary, is responsible for the is evaluated every year.
The evaluation is externally facilitated every following key matters in relation to the effective operation of the Board: third year.
Independent Board Evaluation, which is independent of the Company, undertook the 2015 evaluation.
They also facilitated Advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on all the 2012 evaluation and were re-appointed to provide a degree of obligations and developments in corporate governance continuity to enable the Board better to assess its development Ensuring that appropriate and timely information is provided since then.
to the Board and its Committees and that there are good information flows between senior management and the Representatives of Independent Board Evaluation attended meetings non-executive Directors of the Board, Audit and Risk Committee, Nominations Committee and Acting as a point of contact for shareholders on matters Remuneration Committee and also interviewed all Board members, of corporate governance the Company Secretary and other members of management below Implementing a robust governance framework throughout Board level who had presented to the Board and its Committees the Group during the year.
The anonymity of all feedback received was ensured throughout the process.
The evaluation focused on strategy, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company succession planning, governance and risk management being Secretary and can arrange through him to receive professional advice the key areas of the Boards attention during the year.
independently of the Company, at the Companys expense.
The overall findings of the evaluation were presented to the Board, Shareholder engagement and the Chairmen of the Board Committees received specific reports The Board ensures that the Company maintains its relationship with on their respective Committees.
The Chairman received feedback on shareholders through a regular programme of presentations and individual Directors, which has been discussed with them in one-tomeetings to inform institutional investors, analysts and prospective one meetings.
Philip Howard, as the Senior Independent Director, shareholders, attended by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer received a report on the evaluation of the Chairman which he and other senior executives.
Feedback from investor meetings is discussed with the non-executive Directors and subsequently provided to the Board to ensure that the Directors maintain an with the Chairman.
understanding of the views of our major shareholders.
The overall view of the Boards performance was positive.
LongerThe Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an standing members of the Board noted that the level of challenge had alternative means of communication with the Board should they have further increased since the last review.
Areas of particular strength concerns that cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman were shareholder relations, governance and compliance, Board or executive Directors.
culture and Board support and resources.
Going forward there was some demand to widen the Boards discussions on strategy and risks Information about significant corporate developments, financial to the strategy, for greater diversity in terms of gender, nationality and statements and other corporate material is available on our website.
sector and to enhance the induction process for executive Directors.
The Annual General Meeting Directors conflicts of interest We view the Annual General Meeting as an important opportunity to The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and communicate with private investors, and set aside time at the meeting manage conflicts of interest, and these procedures have operated for shareholders to ask questions.
The Chief Executive provides a effectively during the year.
review of the Groups performance and informs shareholders of the first quarter results.
All resolutions are voted by way of a poll.
This All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of Conflicts Register which is maintained by the Company Secretary and shareholders attending the meeting.
All resolutions are voted on reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors have a continuing separately and the final voting results are published as soon as duty to update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of interest.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 55 Nominations Committee report Succession planning has been a long-term priority for the Board.
Dear Shareholder, Committee attendance during 2015 Number of Number of meetings eligible meetings I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2015.
Member to attend attended Andrew Beeson 4 4 As I said in my opening statement in this Annual Report, succession 1 Ashley Almanza 4 2 planning has been a long-term priority for the Board and this has been 2 Luc Bertrand 2 2 led by the Nominations Committee.
In this report we set out in more Robin Buchanan 4 4 detail how we came to our decisions regarding the appointment of a 3 Rhian Davies 2 2 new Chief Executive and new Chairman.
Philip Howard, as Senior Lord Howard 4 4 Independent Director, led the process for choosing my successor and Nichola Pease 4 4 this report includes a statement from Philip Howard on that process.
Bruno Schroder 4 4 1 Ashley Almanza was unable to attend two Nominations Committee meetings due to previous commitments.
Andrew Beeson 2 Luc Bertrand retired from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
Chairman 3 Rhian Davies was appointed to the Board and Nominations Committee 2 March 2016 on 22 July 2015.
The Chief Executive is usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
Michael Dobson was not present when the Chairmans succession was considered.
56 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Chief Executive succession who had proven experience within the firm and understood its culture The appointment of a new Chief Executive is one of the most and values.
The appointment of Peter Harrison brings continuity and important decisions a Board has to take.
Planning for the succession stability for the firm, its clients and employees.
of Michael Dobson has been a long-term consideration for the Board.
When we recruited Peter Harrison as Head of Equities in 2013, the Peter Harrison has spent his whole career in the asset management Board wished to broaden the number of individuals within the firms industry.
He began his career at Schroders in 1988 as an equity senior management team who could one day have the potential to analyst.
He subsequently held roles at Newton as a portfolio manager, succeed Michael Dobson.
External candidates were also considered at JP Morgan as Head of Global Equities and Multi-asset, and at as part of the process and in hiring Peter Harrison we were looking Deutsche Asset Management as Global Chief Investment Officer.
outside the firm for individuals with the potential of taking on the Directly prior to joining Schroders he was Chairman and Chief Chief Executive role in due course.
He re-joined Schroders in 2013 and was appointed to the Board and became Head of Investment in 2014.
The criteria for the selection of the new Chief Executive included: Continuity and stability for the firm, its clients and employees Peter Harrisons knowledge of the sector is deep and broad and, An understanding of the firms culture and values at this time of significant regulatory and industry change there A broad and deep knowledge of the asset management sector is a need for a Chief Executive who understands the Company, as well as the complexities of the sector.
After careful review, the Committee believed Peter Harrison was the most appropriate successor for Michael Dobson as Chief Executive and recommended his appointment to the Board.
Promoting from within was our clear preference for this role.
We wanted an individual Chairman Succession: Statement from Philip Howard Michael Dobson has enjoyed the strong support of the shareholders As the Senior Independent Director I led the process of appointing as Chief Executive and we believe that he will, as Chairman, continue a new non-executive Chairman.
to serve their interests as effectively as he has in the past.
The criteria set by the Board for the role of Chairman included: The Board does not regard this appointment as setting a precedent A strong commitment to shareholder value creation at Schroders and the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief The ability to command the respect of the Board, shareholders, Executive remains in place.
employees and other key stakeholders, including an ability to work effectively with the new Chief Executive The Board is conscious of the need to maintain a good balance of A deep knowledge of the asset management industry skills, expertise, industry knowledge and independence.
As Chairman, A thorough understanding of the global financial services Michael Dobson will be reviewing the composition of the Board as a industry, particularly the rapidly evolving regulatory framework priority and will lead the search for additional non-executive Directors.
for asset managers As non-executive Chairman, Michael Dobsons role, in addition to It is clear to the Board that Michael Dobson is the outstanding the usual functions of the Chairman, will include his involvement in candidate for the role.
Michael Dobson brings continuity at a supporting the firms relationships with its major clients, shareholders, time of change and the Company will retain his experience and strategic and commercial partners and regulators.
He has committed expertise, which make him particularly well qualified to assume to spend sufficient time on the firms business to appropriately the Chairmanship as judged by the Boards criteria.
The Board is confident that the transition of roles by both Michael Dobsons new terms and conditions are appropriate to his Peter Harrison and Michael Dobson will be effective and that role as non-executive Chairman.
He will be engaged under a letter the Chief Executive Chairman relationship will thrive under the of appointment and will not have a service contract.
does not expect to make any payment to him for giving up his role as Chief Executive and there will be no contractual provision for any Michael Dobson has been Chief Executive of Schroders for over compensation when his role as Chairman ends.
His annual fee will be 14 years.
He has been an exceptional leader of the business over 625,000, which the Board believes is commensurate with the role at that time and hands over the management of a firm that has been comparable financial services groups and FTSE-100 companies.
Under his tenure Schroders has consistently delivered strong results.
Michael Dobson has steered Michael Dobson was the unanimous choice of the Board.
He is the firm through some difficult times and taken the business from deeply committed to the long-term success of Schroders and has making a loss in 2001 to a record level of profitability in 2015 at sustained and enhanced the values and culture of the business over 600 million.
Schroders is now one of the largest listed asset during his tenure.
The Board recognises that the UK Corporate Governance Code Lord Howard of Penrith states that, ordinarily, the chief executive should not go on to be the Senior Independent Director chairman, but that if it does decide to appoint the chief executive as chairman, then the Board should consult shareholders.
We have consulted the major shareholders of the Company to explain clearly the reasons behind this decision.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 57 Nominations Committee report continued Responsibilities of the Committee Support The Nominations Committee is responsible for keeping under review The Committee received information and support from management the composition of the Board and its Committees and to ensure during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities appropriate succession plans are in place.
The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers and Odgers Berndtson, who are independent of Schroders, were The Committees activities used to assist with the search for new non-executive Directors.
The Committee continued its consideration of succession over No other advisers were engaged by the Committee.
The following changes were recommended to the Board Evaluating the performance of the Committee The appointment of Peter Harrison as Chief Executive in succession The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken to Michael Dobson as part of the overall external Board evaluation process and the findings The appointment of Michael Dobson as Chairman in succession relating to the Nominations Committee were reviewed by the Chairman.
to Andrew Beeson Overall the Committee was seen as being thorough and effective and The appointment of Philip Howard as Senior Independent having achieved excellent results for the firm.
The time taken to achieve Director following Luc Bertrands retirement at the 2015 Annual positive outcomes is an area of focus going forward.
General Meeting The appointment of Rhian Davies as a non-executive Director Priorities for 2016 The appointment of Rhian Davies as Chairman of the Audit The Committee and the Board are conscious of the need to have and Risk Committee in succession to Ashley Almanza an appropriate balance of skills, expertise, industry knowledge and independence.
Board composition is the responsibility of the Chairman Board diversity and therefore Michael Dobson will lead the review of composition and The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a wider consideration of any new non-executive appointments.
We believe that members of the Board should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary for the effective Andrew Beeson oversight of the Group.
The Nominations Committee considers Chairman of the Nominations Committee diversity as one of many factors when recommending new 2 March 2016 appointments to the Board.
Further information on our approach to diversity and the steps the Company is taking to enhance gender diversity throughout the business is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 22 and 23 and the Corporate Governance Report on page 51.
Directors re-election to the Board Andrew Beeson will retire from the Board on 4 April 2016.
Ashley Almanza will not seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 28 April 2016.
All other Directors will retire from the Board and submit themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
Following the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and each of the Committees this year, the Nominations Committee has concluded that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrate sufficient commitment to their role.
The Board reviewed actual and potential conflicts of interest for each Director and agreed that at present there were no conflicts which would preclude any of the Directors from discharging their duties and responsibilities effectively.
As Robin Buchanan, Philip Howard and Bruno Schroder have served on the Board for more than six years, the proposal for their re-election was given particular consideration and the Nominations Committee agreed that these Directors continued to provide a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations and recommended their re-appointment.
As required by the Listing Rules, the appointment of independent directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders.
Further details are set out in the 2016 Notice of AGM.
58 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report The culture within Schroders continues to be a positive contributor to its control environment.
As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, I am pleased Seeking to ensure that appropriate systems and controls are in place to present our report for the year ended 31 December 2015. across the Group to meet these risks will remain an important part of the Committees work over the course of 2016 and beyond.
In addition to providing oversight of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk framework, the Committee had the I can also report that a number of significant enhancements were opportunity to consider a number of emerging and thematic made to the ICAAP over the course of the year.
Further details on risks during the year.
During 2015 the Committee continued to focus on culture and Ensuring the Group has a high quality, effective and independent conduct risk.
In 2014, the Group established a conduct risk external auditor is a key role of the Committee.
We last conducted programme to review and manage conduct risks.
This is an a formal tender for our external audit contract in 2012 and we review initiative led by the senior management team and the Committee the provision of our external audit services annually.
During 2015, the has oversight of the programme, which continued throughout 2015.
Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, decided to put The results to date have been encouraging and we believe that the our contract out to tender in 2016.
PwC will not be invited to take culture within Schroders continues to be a positive contributor to part in the tender process which will be overseen by the Committee.
The process will meet new European audit reforms whereby we will be required to replace PwC as our external auditor no later than Throughout the year we had the opportunity to consider in detail the 2020.
Further information can be found on page 62.
Groups approach to thematic risks in respect of information security and the management of conflicts in the use of in-house products.
A In July we welcomed Rhian Davies to the Committee.
Rhian will take summary of the Committees work in each of these areas is included on the Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee when I stand on pages 63 and 64. down as a Director at the conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Rhian is a chartered accountant and the Board considers In addition, a significant proportion of the Committees time was spent that she has the recent and relevant financial experience appropriate reviewing thematic and emerging risks including the implications of for this appointment.
I believe her background and experience will and readiness for the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II make her an excellent Committee Chairman.
MiFID II represents a substantial revision and strengthening of the current European regulatory framework and will have wide I would like also to mention the Directors and employees of Schroders reaching implications for all asset managers.
The implementation of with whom I have had great pleasure working with for almost five years.
MiFID II is expected to be delayed until 2018 and the firms readiness People have a clear sense of pride in working for Schroders and this is for it will be an ongoing focus for the Committee.
reflected in the open and honest support the Committee receives.
Ashley Almanza Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 59 9 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Committee attendance during 2015 Key areas of focus during the year The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee Number of Number of meetings eligible meetings considered at each of its meetings during 2015.
Member to attend attended Ashley Almanza 5 5 Meeting Key issues considered Robin Buchanan 5 5 1 Rhian Davies 3 3 March Annual Report and Accounts Philip Howard 5 5 Pillar 3 disclosures Nichola Pease 5 5 Key risks and risk management and internal 1 control framework Rhian Davies was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on 22 July 2015 Money laundering reporting officers report May The use of in-house funds All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Information security Directors.
Biographical details and the experience of Committee Outsourced service providers members are set out on pages 46 to 47. Business continuity At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, July Half-year results Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Bruno Schroder attended Key risks, risk appetite and ICAAP most meetings.
Other regular attendees who advised the Committee September Culture and conduct were the Group Financial Controller, the heads of Compliance, Risk MiFID II and Internal Audit and the General Counsel.
Other members of Appointment of the external auditor senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate.
and audit tender Representatives from the Groups auditor, PwC, attended all of the Committees scheduled meetings.
November Tax strategy Viability statement During 2015, two private meetings were held with PwC without Financial controls management present.
Private meetings were also held with the Chief External auditor independence Financial Officer and the heads of the Compliance, Risk and Internal Recovery Plan Audit functions.
These meetings provided an opportunity for any 2016 Internal Audit and compliance matters to be raised confidentially.
monitoring plans Responsibilities of the Committee The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board in carrying Financial Reporting, Financial Controls and Audit out its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, The Committee reviews the half-year and annual results and financial controls and audit, risk and internal controls.
The key areas the Annual Report and Accounts, before recommending them to of the Committees work are set out in the table below: the Board for approval.
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management Financial Reporting, Financial Controls has made appropriate estimates and judgements, including those in and Audit Risk and Internal Controls respect of financial assets, goodwill and intangible assets, provisions The content and integrity The Groups risk and and contingent liabilities and the determination of the defined benefit of financial reporting control framework, pension funding.
In addition, the Committee reviews managements The appropriateness of including the Groups judgement on financial investments that are deemed to be subsidiaries accounting judgements whistleblowing procedures in accordance with accounting rules.
The effectiveness of the The Groups regulatory external auditors processes and procedures The Groups financial control environment is documented in detailed Recommending to the and its relationships with risk and control documents.
The documents provide a comprehensive Board the appointment regulators, including money summary of the risks and controls that exist across Finance globally of external auditors laundering reporting and support the Groups risk and control assessments.
During the officers reports year, the Committee received reports from Finance on the operation The Groups internal of the controls over the financial reporting process including the key audit function processes for revenue and distributor commissions.
This has been an Emerging and thematic risks area of focus and follows the creation of a Global Finance Operations which may have a material team in 2013.
One of the objectives of the team is to develop the impact on the Groups Groups finance operational processes, including efficiency and the operations in the future availability of detailed management information.
During the year, the Committee received a presentation on the programme of work in respect of revenue and distributor commission processes which outlined enhancements to the control environment.
The Committee also considers reports from PwC providing an independent assessment of financial reporting, an audit opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts and an independent report on the half-year results.
Relevant controls are also reviewed by PwC.
60 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance The Committee also considers whether it can recommend to the the Committee welcomed the new Group Head of Tax to his first Board that the Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a whole Committee meeting.
He presented the tax strategy and reiterated is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provides the the Groups commitment to the CBIs Seven Tax Principles and to information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position the UKs Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks.
and performance, business model and strategy.
To support the Committee in making this recommendation it assessed the key The strategy which continues to be appropriate for the Group and our messages being communicated in the Annual Report and, when stakeholders is available on the website.
More details on our approach forming its opinion, the Committee considered the information it to corporate income tax are set out on page 21. had received and its discussions throughout the year.
The Committee is required to report to shareholders on the process The Groups overall approach to corporate income tax is reviewed it follows in its review of significant judgemental issues it has annually and is discussed with the external auditors.
In November, considered during the year.
These issues are set out below.
Significant financial judgements and financial reporting for 2015 How these were addressed Recognition and disclosure of liabilities During 2015 detailed reports were presented by management to the Committee addressing The Group has some uncertainty over the judgemental issues and estimates, which included the key assumptions and basis for the recognition, timing and amount in the main areas of uncertainty regarding the recognition of liabilities.
The Committee also respect of certain obligations.
These can considered the resolution in the year of previous claims against the Group.
arise in a number of areas but principally comprise legal and regulatory matters The Group Head of Tax presented an update on the Groups tax strategy and associated and leasehold related obligations.
In governance process to the Committee in November.
The presentation included an explanation addition, the calculation of the Groups and discussion on areas necessitating a degree of judgement.
It was explained to the Committee tax charge necessarily involves a degree that in line with our commitments under the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks, material risks of estimation and judgement, given and uncertain tax positions are disclosed to and proactively resolved with HM Revenue & the many jurisdictions in which it has Customs.
Where appropriate, a similar approach is adopted with other tax authorities.
operations and the complexity of the applicable tax rules in each Key judgements on uncertain liabilities have been discussed with PwC, who have completed of those jurisdictions.
The Committee considers that the judgements made by management in respect of all relevant liabilities are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures See note 6 to the accounts.
have been included in the accounts.
Carrying values of assets The Committee considered reports prepared by management that set out relevant The Group holds material balances considerations in assessing the carrying value of material assets that required judgement in respect of acquisitions completed in the determination of their valuation.
in previous years and the UK defined benefit pension scheme surplus which Acquisition related items, comprising goodwill and intangible assets, were assessed against are subject to judgement regarding their the performance and outlook of the relevant segments and the application of growth carrying value.
The management report included the key financial assumptions that had been used by the independent qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, to determine the UK defined benefit pension scheme surplus.
The basis for determining the carrying value of certain other assets was also considered in the management report.
The Committees review included specific discussions with PwC regarding the basis and assumptions that had been used to support the carrying values.
Having considered the supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with managements conclusions See notes 13 and 25 to the accounts.
regarding the carrying values of the relevant assets.
Presentation of profits The Committee considered and was satisfied with the continued presentation of exceptional Following the Groups acquisitions in 2013, items within a separate column in the consolidated income statement.
This presentation is the Income Statement continues to present considered appropriate as it provides a transparent view of certain items and the underlying separately exceptional items, which are performance of the business.
For 2015, those exceptional items principally comprised permitted by accounting rules for items of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred compensation arising from the 2013 income or expense that are material.
acquisitions and an unused amount of provision that was reversed in the year and had been recorded as an exceptional item in prior years.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 61 Audit and Risk Committee report continued External audit each engagement below 100,000.
Any engagement at or above this The Committee places great importance on the quality, effectiveness level or where total fees for non-audit services are expected to exceed and independence of the external audit process.
certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee.
In addition, the Committee approves all proposed taxation services The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance to be provided by the external auditor.
To assist the Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities, an assessment of the external auditor was carried From 2017 EU regulations will prohibit the provision of certain non-audit out with feedback collected from across the Group by way of a services by the external auditor.
They will also introduce a cap on the questionnaire.
The content of the questionnaire was prepared in level of non-audit fees as a proportion of the audit fee.
In preparation for accordance with the FRCs guidance comprising four criteria: the introduction of the regulations, the Committee amended its policy on mindset and culture: skills, character and knowledge: quality the provision of non-audit services.
Specifically, the Committee agreed control: and judgement.
not to cap the level of non-audit fees but to reduce the aggregate threshold when non-audit services require Committee approval to Audit effectiveness is also assessed throughout the year using a 60per cent.
This compares to our previous threshold number of measures including: reviewing the quality and scope of the which required Committee approval for each service if non-audit fees proposed audit plan and progress against the plan: responsiveness were expected to exceed 100 per cent.
to changes in our businesses: and monitoring the independence and transparency of the audit.
Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, PwC also completes its own independence confirmation processes which are approved by The findings of the annual assessment indicated a further improvement the senior statutory auditor.
To provide the Committee with oversight in the perceived quality of the overall audit.
In particular, feedback in this area, it receives six-monthly reports on the non-audit services showed there had been significant progress made in the coordination provided by PwC.
and planning of international audits.
There were no significant adverse findings from the assessment.
Actions were agreed with PwC to Details of the total fees paid to PwC are set out in note 5 to the accounts.
address the opportunities for improvement that had been identified.
The Committee was satisfied that the quantity and type of non-audit The assessment of the auditors effectiveness forms part of the work undertaken throughout the year did not impair PwCs Committees annual consideration of whether the auditor should be independence or objectivity and that their appointments were in the recommended to the Board for reappointment.
We continue to believe best interests of shareholders due to PwCs pre-existing knowledge that PwC are performing effectively and their reappointment will be of the Groups operations and practices.
The Groups overall approach recommended to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
There are no is only to use PwC where there is a strong case to do so in preference contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of to obtaining the services from an alternative supplier.
The Committee is also responsible for the policy on the employment In order to help safeguard the independence and objectivity of of former employees of the external auditor and the policy that the auditors, the Committee maintains a policy on their engagement restricts Finance employees from entering into personal contractual to provide non-audit services.
This precludes the provision of certain arrangements with the external auditor.
These policies were also non-permitted audit services and contains rules regarding the reviewed and approved by the Committee during the year.
approval of permitted non-audit services.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition Management has delegated authority to consider and approve the Markets Authority Order 2014 throughout the year under review and provision of permitted non-audit services by the auditor with a value for as at the date of this report.
External audit tender process PwC, or its predecessor firms, have been the Companys auditor tenure for the current lead engagement partner who, in accordance since Schroders became a listed company in 1959.
The last formal with audit regulations, is required to rotate off the Schroders account tender process was undertaken in 2012 and resulted in the at that time.
reappointment of PwC with a new lead engagement partner.
During 2015 we introduced a new process to monitor and approve The Committee keeps the provision of external audit services under services provided by other audit firms that are not currently subject to review and the Board, on recommendation of the Committee, has independence rules to ensure any services performed will not prohibit decided to put the Groups external audit contract out to tender again them from being considered as part of the external audit tender process.
In June 2016, new EU audit regulations will come into force.
As a consequence, Schroders will be required to replace PwC Our plan also considers the consequential impact of appointing those as its statutory auditor by 2020.
In order to minimise the disruption to firms and the transition of services where they would no longer be the business we are proposing to replace PwC as our external auditor permitted.
The milestones for the external audit tender process are on the conclusion of the 2017 audit as this will coincide with the end of set out below: 2017 2018 AGM Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Selected firm to gain Selected firm recommended Committee approves Firms invited Q4 2016 independence and undertake to shareholders at the Audit Tender Plan to tender Audit firm selected shadowing of PwCs work 2018 AGM 62 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Risk and internal controls Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of by the Group, developments in risk management and operational internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control events, including significant errors and omissions.
Separate reports systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses.
allowed the Committee to consider the key risks faced by the Group and assessments of risk tolerance and stress testing of the Groups The system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate capital position, as well as the production of the Groups ICAAP.
The the risk of failure to achieve our strategic objectives and can only provide ICAAP was developed over the year to include new sections on stress reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The testing and reverse stress testing with further enhancements to the Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing the strategy section and risk management framework.
The statement of effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and internal controls framework.
risk appetite has also continued to evolve.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual The Committee also receives reports on business continuity, fraud, assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2015, oversight of the outsourced service providers and Group recovery including those related to the financial reporting process.
Committee also considered the adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements in the context of the Groups business The Committee considers emerging and thematic risks that may and strategy.
In carrying out its assessment, the Committee have a material impact on the Group.
During the year, the Committee considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the heads reviewed the Group arrangements in the areas highlighted below of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and also from PwC which and on page 64. enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Committee keeps under review the Groups risk management arrangements and internal controls through quarterly reports.
Conduct and culture Information security The Committee spent time in 2015 considering the Groups Ensuring we have appropriate controls to safeguard our information approach to conduct and culture in the business and an agreed security and that our data is held securely by third parties is a key conduct risk framework is now in place in the UK.
The four key priority for the Committee.
components are: integration into culture and people management: accountability and governance: the relevant policy framework: and To help management determine whether its approach to managing management information.
information security was adequate and proportionate, an independent consultant was engaged to perform a review of our information To assess the implementation of the framework the Committee security strategy, oversight and control structures, change received presentations from representatives of Intermediary programme and talent pool.
The findings were presented Distribution and Wealth Management, being the two parts of the to the Committee.
business with the greatest levels of engagement with retail clients.
The Committee was encouraged by the progress in delivering the Overall, the Committee was encouraged that management had conduct risk programme and will continue to monitor the output engaged with the issue and that there had been significant progress to ensure the focus on conduct and culture remains at the heart in improving controls.
The Committee acknowledges that the area of the business.
is evolving and there is a need to ensure our control environment continues to strengthen as new threats emerge.
However, a detailed The Global Head of Human Resources also presented the findings plan formulated by management provides assurance that this matter of the Employee Opinion Survey as they related to culture and has appropriate focus.
The plan includes the development of a well conduct.
The Committee took comfort in the results of the survey articulated governance structure and the establishment of a new which showed that the vast majority of employees understood Information Security Risk Oversight Committee, chaired by the and believed that Schroders lived up to its values.
This is now operational and the Committee receives regular updates.
Due to the evolving nature of the risk, Information Security will remain an ongoing focus for the Committee.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 63 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and The Groups three lines of defence model provides an ongoing dealings with our principal global regulators and material changes in process for identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks faced by the the regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
This model together with the most significant developments also outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of in the risk profile of the business and a description of how we control the compliance monitoring programme.
The Committee also received and manage risks are set out on pages 36 to 43. reports on the operation of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, anti-money laundering processes and client asset controls.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was Internal Audit reports set out progress against a rolling plan of undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process which audits approved by the Committee, and include significant findings was externally facilitated in 2015.
Further information can be found from audits and their subsequent remediation, and recommendations in the Corporate Governance report on page 55.
The findings relating to improve the control environment.
to the Committee were discussed with the Committee Chairman.
The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Group Overall, the Committee is considered to be thorough and effective.
Head of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of There was broad support for retaining a combined audit and risk the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for committee and reporting to the Board was seen as thorough.
setting the objectives of the Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising An area for further consideration was receiving more input from his performance against those objectives and for recommending his business heads without increasing materially the number of remuneration to the Remuneration Committee, with advice from the attendees at meetings.
Overview of Priorities for 2016 The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal As well as the considering the standing items of business, the Audit budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function Committee will also focus on the following areas during 2016: has appropriate resources and continues to be effective.
Brexit Conduct and Culture Conflict management and the use of in-house products IHPs Information Security The use of IHPs continues to be a key focus of the FCA.
This is the MiFID II risk that investment decisions could be made which are not in the External audit tender process.
clients best interests or that a conflict of interest inherent in choosing between IHPs and external products is not well managed.
In light of its work, the Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting The Committee received a detailed presentation on Schroders and controls, its ethical standards and its relationships with regulators.
Management explained how conflicts were managed The Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness and by the first line of defence including the use of fund due diligence adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements as well and selection processes to mitigate potential conflicts.
as the supporting risk management systems including the risk monitoring processes, internal controls framework and three lines The Committee was reassured that fund managers received of defence model.
no incentive to favour IHPs over third party funds and there was no target level of use.
In addition, the criteria were more stringent for the use of, or exit from, an IHP.
Overall the Committee confirmed Ashley Almanza that the clients interest was the principal consideration in the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee use of IHPs and that the supporting governance structures were 2 March 2016 in all cases appropriate.
64 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
