Report of the Audit Committee The audit committee comprises the whole board and is There are procedures in place to ensure that: chaired by Ian Hunter.
all transactions are accounted for accurately and reported The audit committee has written terms of reference which fully to the board: are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include management observes the authorisation limits set by risk assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys the board: accounting policies, financial statements prior to their release there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
The transaction can be completed by one person: committee is also responsible for all aspects of the companys control activities are regularly checked: and relationship with its external auditor including: legal and regulatory obligations are met.
reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: The committee recognises that such systems can only provide the auditors remuneration: reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material the terms of engagement: and misstatement or loss.
the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditor.
Significant Issues Annual Report The committee considers the risks that may have an impact The audit committee reviews the Annual Report and Accounts on the companys financial statements.
to ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable.
The valuation and ownership of the companys investments are risks.
Investments are valued in accordance with the Internal Controls accounting policy on page 30.
The prices of all investments The company does not have an internal audit function as the are agreed with an independent source and the ownership of audit committee believes that the companys straightforward each investment agreed through confirmation received from structure and small number of employees do not warrant such the companys independent global custodian, Northern Trust.
This is reviewed by the committee annually.
The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income in the The committee is responsible for ensuring that the company financial statements are also risks.
Internal control systems, has in place an effective system of internal controls designed including frequent reconciliations, are in place to ensure income to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard is fully accounted for.
The board is provided with information the companys assets.
The committee has applied the UK on the companys income account at each meeting.
Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the company faces.
Auditor Assessment In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed in 2002. committee reviews the effectiveness of the companys system The committee reviews annually the services provided and of internal controls at six-monthly intervals.
The corporate governance provisions relating to audit tenure have been reviewed and the committee is of The committees monitoring covers all controls, including the opinion there is no need to conduct a competitive tender financial, operational and compliance controls and risk at the present time.
The fees for audit and non-audit services management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from were 29,100 2014: 28,200 and 16,850 2014: 16,550 management and considering whether significant risks are respectively.
Non-audit services include: Tax compliance identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether any 6,800: assurance services 4,400 and Pension scheme significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or require more audit 5,650. extensive monitoring.
During the course of its review of the system of internal controls, the committee has not identified, The audit committee reviews and approves any non-audit nor been advised of, any material failings or weaknesses.
services provided by the auditor and assesses the impact Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions of any non-audit work on the ability of the auditor to has not been considered appropriate.
The committee also monitors the controls and risk Partner rotation management of the companys custodian, Northern Trust.
The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated every five years.
Andrew Partridge, the current audit partner, was appointed this year.
Report & Accounts 2015 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Report of the Audit Committee continued Independence The committee has satisfied itself of the continuing independence of Deloitte LLP.
The committee confirms the level of non-audit work undertaken does not compromise independence.
Re-appointment of auditor A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor, and to authorise the directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor It is the companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and they have taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ian Hunter Director 14 December 2015 20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015
