Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all independent Directors.
The Financial Reporting members of the Committee consider that they have the requisite The Committee considers that the most significant area of risk financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the likely to impact the financial statements is the existence and Committee.
Mr WG McQueen, Chairman of the Committee, is a valuation of investments as they represent 98% of total assets.
The Committees authority and duties are The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and clearly defined within its written terms of reference which are market prices are readily available from independent external available on request from the Company Secretary and at pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed Baillie Giffords Report www.
The terms of reference are on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding reviewed annually.
recording and pricing of investments.
The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as The value of all the listed investments at 31 March 2015 were part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
agreed to external price sources and the holdings agreed to At least once a year the Committee meets with the external confirmations from the Companys custodian.
Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of Main Activities of the Committee the financial statements as a whole.
The Committee met twice during the year and KPMG LLP, the external Auditor, attended both meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Controls and Risk Management Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk permanent risk function provided reports on their monitoring management and internal controls systems as described on programmes for these meetings.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the year under review.
Committee during the course of the year included the following: External Auditor The preliminary results announcement and the annual and To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the half-yearly reports: external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The Companys accounting policies and practices: A report from the Auditor describing their arrangements to The regulatory changes impacting the Company: identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest and received confirmation of their independence: and The fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided the The extent of non-audit services provided by the external information necessary for shareholders to assess the auditors.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2015 were Companys performance, business model and strategy: 2,900 and related to the certification of financial information for the debenture trustee and the provision of Indian tax The effectiveness of the Companys internal control services.
The Committee does not believe that this has environment: impaired the Auditors independence.
Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee external Auditor: reviewed and considered: Whether the audit services contract should be put out to The Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: tender: Responses to the ICAS Annual Audit Assessment The policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to questionnaire: supply non-audit services: Feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit team: external Auditor: The Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC: and The need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: Detailed discussion with audit personnel to challenge audit processes and deliverables.
Internal controls reports received from the Managers and custodian: and To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: The arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible The Auditors engagement letter: improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Auditors proposed audit strategy: Internal Audit The audit fee: and The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and A report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
internal controls systems and the internal audit function in place Although KPMG LLP, or its predecessor firms, have been Auditor within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that a for over twenty five years, the audit partners responsible for the sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with investment and the Companys assets is maintained.
An internal professional and regulatory standards in order to protect audit function, specific to the Company is therefore considered independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to unnecessary.
30 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report the business.
Ms C Burnet, the current partner, was appointed over three years ago and will continue as partner until the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
KPMG have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
KPMG also act as Auditor to the Manager and Ms C Burnet took on the lead relationship partner role with Baillie Gifford during 2013.
A separate audit director is responsible for the Baillie Gifford audit and KPMG have outlined the procedures that would be put in place in the unlikely event that a conflict of interest should arise.
The Committee is satisfied with the Auditors independence.
Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and effective and as such, has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its Auditor at this stage.
The Committee intends to undertake a tender process during the year to 31 March 2016 to coincide with the five year rotation cycle of the current partner Ms C Burnet.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external Auditor.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the financial statements are set out on pages 34 to 36.
By order of the Board Gordon McQueen Audit Committee Chairman 11 May 2015 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 31
