Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high Independence of Directors standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent how the principles of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship the Code, which can be found at www.
uk and the that could interfere with the exercise of their independent principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code judgement.
of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial Mr JPHS Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen, have served year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for on the Board for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise investment companies and can be found at www.
the value of progressive refreshing of, and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed Compliance annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit experience can be a benefit to the board.
The Board concurs with Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to be should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with concluded that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr the recommendations of the AIC Code.
JPHS Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen continue to The Board demonstrate independence of character and judgement and their The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
skills and experience are a benefit to the Board.
The Board appoints the Managers and Secretary and approves Meetings the terms of the investment management agreement.
It has a There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue share buy back policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
A separate meeting devoted to strategy is The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to held each year.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full attendance record for the Board and Committee Meetings held and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the during the year.
The Annual General Meeting was attended by all Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge Directors serving at that date.
The Board currently comprises six Directors, all of whom are nonDirectors Attendance at Meetings executive.
Audit Nomination The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board Committee Committee Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Number of meetings 6 2 1 executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager John Scott 6 2 1 AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, and, in the context of a Michael Gray 6 2 1 Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief Professor John Kay 6 2 1 executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the Senior Independent Director.
Fiona McBain 6 2 1 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Gordon McQueen 6 2 1 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership Dr Paola Subacchi 5 1 1 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on Nomination Committee pages 22 and 23.
The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonThere is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has Appointments written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should be recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Code all the Directors will retire at each not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for the benefits of Annual General Meeting and, if appropriate, offer themselves for re-election.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27 Governance Report diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore the Company in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Mr MM Gray is not offering himself for re-election at the Annual The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation General Meeting.
SpencerStuart has been engaged to help and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard identify potential candidates to replace Mr Gray.
SpencerStuart the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, has no other connection with the Company or Directors.
including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
The Committees terms of reference are available on request from the Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers website: www.
and Secretaries and, with effect from 1 July 2014, the controls managed by the AIFM in accordance with the Alternative Performance Evaluation Investment Fund Managers Directive as detailed below.
Baillie The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its the AIFMs permanent risk function provide the Audit Committee Committees.
Prior to the meeting each Director completed with regular reports on their monitoring programmes.
The an evaluation form which they discussed individually with the reporting procedures for these departments are defined and Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr MM formalised within a service level agreement.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other conducts an annual review of its system of internal controls which criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution of is documented within an internal controls report which complies individual Directors, the overall competency and effectiveness of with ISAE 3402 and Technical Release AAF 01 06 Assurance the Board and its Committees and the continuing professional Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made development undertaken by Directors during the year.
This report is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditor and a copy is submitted to the Audit Following this process it was concluded that the performance Committee.
of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and remains committed to the Company.
the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have commitments during the year.
been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
Lintstock, a company which assists companies with the design and execution of board evaluations, facilitated the performance The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness evaluation in 2013.
It is intended that the evaluation will again be of the Companys risk management and internal controls systems externally facilitated in 2016. and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the Induction and Training year under review and up to the date of this Report.
New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Briefings throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in were provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters.
place up to the date of approval of this Report.
The Directors receive other training as necessary.
With effect from 1 July 2014, the Company entered into Remuneration arrangements to comply with the Alternative Fund Managers As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement Directive.
The Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are Depositary UK Limited as its Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by Limited as its AIFM.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 and 33. safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying Audit Committee ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 30 and 31. monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of Internal Controls and Risk Management financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather of New York Mellon SA NV London Branch.
The Custodian than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards which is and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
against material misstatement or loss.
28 Annual Report 2015 Governance Report The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its Corporate Governance and Stewardship monitoring activities.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least Managers to take these issues into account as long as the annually.
This review includes the risk management processes investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do and systems and limits for each risk area.
not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the approach whereby matters are discussed with management Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management of the portfolio.
These limits, including leverage see note 22 on systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors page 55, are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers risks is undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be impact of changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions found on the Managers website at www.
The from limits monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
AIFM and reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Going Concern In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken By order of the Board a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going John Scott concern.
Chairman 11 May 2015 The Companys principal risks are market related and include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance with borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders and their representatives and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Companys registered office.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the meeting and published at www.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company at www.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 29
