STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In addition to my appointment to the Board and following the resignation IAIN CORNISH of Richard Pyman as Chief Executive Officer we also appointed a new Chief Chairman Executive Officer, Steve Pateman, who brings a wealth of experience with him from both Santander and RBS.
Stephen Johnson, having served as a member of the Companys Executive Committee for a number of years was also promoted to the position of Deputy Chief Executive on 21 May 2015.
In addition we have appointed three new Non-Executive Directors, Paul Lawrence, Sally-Ann Hibberd and David Gagie all of whom bring a wealth of experience, skill and knowledge to the Board.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board has spent considerable time since the IPO in enhancing its Risk Management Framework, its Corporate Governance arrangements, Dear Shareholders strengthening the senior management team to oversee the management plan and its people as well as dealing with the challenges facing the I am pleased to present our corporate governance statement for 2015 business such as changes in regulation, technology and the competitive which explains how the Company has applied the principles of corporate landscape.
governance as set out in the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC The Board has also continued to foster good relations with its new and and available on its website www.
A newly established investor relations function has assisted the Board in developing a programme of meetings and The Company listed its ordinary shares on the main market of the London presentations to institutional shareholders and we look forward to Stock Exchange on 1 April 2015 the IPO.
Prior to the IPO covering the welcoming shareholders to our first Annual General Meeting on period from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2015, the Groups main asset for 9 June 2016. reporting purposes was Shawbrook Bank Limited, a Company that was not required to comply, being a private limited company, with the Code.
The IAIN CORNISH Group did, in that period, have regard to the Code in a way that was Chairman appropriate to its size and unlisted status and was in the process of 2 March 2016 establishing more extensive corporate governance arrangements conditional upon admission of its shares to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange Admission.
From the date of Admission on 1 April 2015 the Board has sought to move towards full compliance throughout the remainder of the accounting period the relevant period to 31 December 2015 with its relevant obligations under the Code.
Details of noncompliance are provided on page 55.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for strategic direction, management and control of the Companys activities and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in delivering in these areas.
The Board considers that appropriate governance standards were in place prior to the IPO.
I was appointed Chairman of the Board on 6 July 2015 following the announcement by Sir George Mathewson of his intention to step down following the IPO.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS Tom Wood Steve Pateman David Gagie Sally-Ann Hibberd Robin Ashton Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Independent NonSenior Independent Executive Director Non-Executive Director 46 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Iain Cornish Paul Lawrence Lindsey McMurray Graham Alcock Stephen Johnson Roger Lovering Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Deputy Chief Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 47
