Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 77 REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE Fostering a culture of effective risk management is of the utmost importance to the Directors.
The Risk Committee is a subcommittee of the Board, the remit of which is to assist the Board in developing this culture, by providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
In carrying out this remit, the Committees key activities in 2015 included: Overseeing preparations for the implementation of the Solvency II Directive alongside the Audit Committee: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of risk management in the Group and the risk management functions: Reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as well as the risk appetite: Considering reports produced by the Groups Risk and Compliance functions, to monitor the ongoing compliance interaction with the Groups regulators: and Receiving presentations from members of senior management Iain Cornish about their business areas and reviewing the management of Chair of the Risk Committee the associated risks.
The following report sets out in more detail the Committees key activities in 2015.
Role of the Committee in Summary To foster a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: To provide leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups Iain Cornish management of risk: On behalf of the Risk Committee To review the principal risks affecting the Group and the 22 March 2016 ways in which the risks are controlled and mitigated: To provide oversight of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment process: and To report any material areas of concern to the full Board.
Risk Committee Members Iain Cornish Chair Simon Jeffreys Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 78 REPORT OF THE RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Oversight of third party administrators, including the Committee Membership During 2015 potential impact on clients of any issues experienced by those All members of the Risk Committee have considerable financial, administrators and how these are mitigated.
The Committee risk and or other relevant experience and are independent considered the controls in place to ensure correct handling Non-executive Directors.
There have been no changes to the of client money, discussing the implementation of new client membership of the Risk Committee during 2015.
Details of assets regulations and the impact of the new administration attendance at the meetings of the Risk Committee throughout platform on the handling of client money.
The nature of the the year can be found on page 67.
Groups oversight of outsourced relationships was also considered: Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year The potential risks associated with the acquisition of Rowan included the Chief Executive, the Managing Director, the Group Dartington, with subsequent discussions around the process Risk Director, the Chief Financial Officer, the Compliance of aligning the two businesses, following the Boards decision Officer and the Chief Actuary.
As Chairman of the Board, Sarah to proceed with the acquisition: Bates also attended all Risk Committee meetings during 2015.
The nature of client complaints and the way in which these are handled and resolved.
The Committee also considered the Committee Activities During 2015 reporting of complaints, both within the Group and to A key focus for the Committee during 2015 has been oversight of regulators: the implementation of Solvency II requirements.
The Committee The approval process for new Partners, in particular the set the strategy for the performance of a single, Group-wide, checks that are carried out during the recruitment process ORSA and had continued involvement in this process throughout and subsequent monitoring of new recruits: the year.
In particular, the Committee discussed the underlying The political landscape in the UK, including the implications basis and assumptions, the nature and results of stress and of changes to pension legislation and potential impacts on the scenario tests, the assessment of operational risks, key risk Group from a Greek Euro exit or a British exit from the EU: management policies and the content of the Narrative Report, and ORSA report and viability statement.
It also received regular The regulatory environment and management of key risks reports on project progress.
within the Asian subsidiaries, including the progress towards full integration of the acquired business into the SJP Group An important element of the work of the Committee is to and continued enhancements to controls and resource levels.
consider reports from senior executives and external consultants on specific topics, including key corporate initiatives.
The This gave the Committee the opportunity to ensure that risks Committee spent time discussing management of the associated are being addressed and to test that the culture of risk risks, and provided challenge to the executives responsible.
identification and management is embedded.
Topics considered in 2015 included: Cyber-security threats, the Groups defences and industry Oversight of the Risk Management Framework is key to delivery best-practice.
The Committee considered the Groups risk of the responsibilities of the Committee.
Further information appetite, current level of maturity, and developments to about the risk framework can be found on pages 40 to 42.
The controls and awareness in this area of increasing risk: framework and associated documents are subject to annual The Groups financial crime prevention controls.
The review, and in 2015, the Committee has focused on embedding Committee considered the risks associated with overseas the changes made in 2014.
In particular, the risk appetite clients and the due diligence required for such individuals, statement has been realigned to reflect key drivers of the and received an update on financial crime prevention controls business: clients, Partners, the Investment Management in the Asian subsidiaries.
In a separate discussion, the Approach, shareholders, regulators and our people.
This Committee considered the financial crime prevention represents an evolution of the existing statements, and there has strategy over the next five years, to ensure controls remain been no fundamental shift in the underlying risk appetite of the effective in light of a changing external risk environment and Group.
The set of indicators used by the Committee to regularly increasing complexity within the Group: monitor performance against risk appetite has been aligned to The progression of the project underway to implement the the new statement, as has the record of the top risks to the Groups new administration platform.
Both have been regularly reviewed by the Committee considered the financial and contractual risks associated with during the year.
Further enhancements to the Risk Management the development, and focussed on the controls operating Framework have been identified and will be implemented within the project, including quality gates in place at key during2016.
decision points: ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 79 The Committee is supported in its oversight of the Risk Management Framework by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, and the Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving updates from the Group Risk Director and the Head of Division Group Risk, who both have direct access to the Chairman of the Risk Committee should the need arise.
The Committee is also able to review and provide challenge on the implementation of risk mitigation in the business.
As part of its oversight of risk management in the business, the Committee also continued to receive and review reports from a number of Executive Committees and other functions in the Group, including: Reports relating to relevant topics discussed at Group Risk Executive and Finance Executive Committee meetings, where executive oversight is given to the appropriateness and observance of the Groups Risk Appetite: Reports produced by the Compliance Oversight and Business Assurance functions in respect of thematic reviews carried out into specific areas of the Groups business: Reports from the Group Risk Director on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems: and An annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the anti-money laundering, bribery and fraud activities taking place within the Group.
Since most of the activity within the Group is regulated, the Committee also considered regular updates on the Groups ongoing interactions with regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, Central Bank of Ireland, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong and Office of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong, and the wider regulatory interactions with firms in the financial services marketplace.
This allowed it to monitor ongoing compliance with regulation.
The Committee was also included in the Board Evaluation process and no material issues were highlighted in respect of itsoperation.
The terms of reference, which were revised in 2015 and which set out the Committees role and authority, can be found on the corporate website at www.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
