70 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
As shareholders will be aware, the Audit Committee has numerous obligations to the Board and shareholders, including assisting the Board in its monitoring of both the financial reporting process, and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control, internal audit and risk management systems.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the statutory audit of the annual report and the consolidated financial statements, and the independence of the Groups statutory auditor,  LLP PwC.
In carrying out these duties, the Committee must maintain an effective relationship with the external auditors and pay due regard to any findings and conclusions resulting from external inspections of previous audits and the results of our internal evaluation of the effectiveness of prior year audits.
Simon Jeffreys A further duty of the Committee is to provide advice to the Board Chair of the Audit Committee that the Companys financial reports, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position and results, and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Role of the Committee in Summary financial position and performance, business model and strategy.
To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the Groups financial statements: A key activity of the Committee in 2015 was reviewing the To oversee the work of the external auditor and consider its annual and half-yearly Report and Accounts, associated reports: announcements and the external auditors reports.
Engagement To monitor the work of the Internal Audit function and with the Internal Audit function, and particularly development ensure its effectiveness: of the Internal Audit plan for the year, monitoring progress of To monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal control the plan and considering the results from all Internal Audit and risk management: activity was also important, as was maintenance of an To review, and where appropriate refer on to the Board, any appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors.
significant control failures: and To report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged This report sets out how the Committee has discharged these, its responsibilities.
and its other duties, through 2015.
Audit Committee Members Simon Jeffreys Chair Iain Cornish Simon Jeffreys Roger Yates On behalf of the Audit Committee 22 March 2016 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 71 Committee Membership During 2015 Committee members are unchanged since January 2015 and, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, comprise three independent Non-executive Directors.
This remains the case as at the date of this report.
The Board is satisfied that all members have the experience and qualifications necessary to successfully perform their roles, noting in particular that the Chair of the Committee is a qualified accountant and former auditor, and other members also have recent and relevant financial experience and expertise.
Details of attendance of Committee members at the meetings of the Audit Committee throughout the year can be found on page 67.
Additional invited attendees to the meetings during the course of the year included the Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Corporate Actuary and other members of the Finance team, as well as representatives from the external auditors,  LLP.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Group Risk Director both attended a joint meeting of the Audit and Risk Committees held in May 2015.
Committee Activities During 2015 Financial Reporting The Committee reviewed both the annual and half-year Report and Accounts, together with the associated reports from the external auditors.
An early draft of the Annual Report was discussed at the November meeting and the Committee held early discussions on key disclosures including material assumptions, key judgements, changes since 2014 and significant events and activities during 2015.
The Committee reflected both on positive developments and challenges during the year.
The topics discussed were driven both by consideration of risk of mis-statement of the accounts, and also by assessment of the scale of risk in the business.
Given the nature of our business, there are certain areas which are always relevant and important, particularly valuation of assets and actuarial reserving assumptions.
Other topics reflect the business experience in the year.
During 2015 the activity has included: Area of Focus Activity Asset Valuation Particularly Property and Derivatives Further to a request by the Audit Committee, senior management presented on asset valuation systems and controls, with particular focus on property and derivatives, but also outlining the process of audit of Unit Trusts.
As a result the Committee was able to conclude that the processes were appropriate and would provide reliable financial information.
Actuarial Reserving Assumptions Including Persistency In line with practice of recent years, Committee members Assumptions in Relation to EEV and Solvency II Reporting engaged in a separate briefing session to review the experience analysis underlying demographic assumptions, and also reviewed the key economic assumptions to be used in valuations.
This prompted detailed discussion of the various judgements, and resulted in a common understanding of, and agreement on: The impact of changes in the pension market and client behaviour on persistency of pension business: and The outlook for future maintenance expenses in light of the new administration contract.
Fraud in Revenue Recognition During the course of its regular work, the Committee reviewed the relevant policies and received regular reports from management and internal external audit on the controls.
Management Override of Controls Much of the work of the Committee was directly or indirectly focused on management and controls.
This included review of systems of controls: reports on the self-assessment activity: and external review, including internal audit co-sourcing.
FSCS Levy As this levy was such a significant item in the first half of the year, the Committee discussed the appropriate level of provision and potential implications for the business in the future, concluding that the reporting was appropriate.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 72 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Area of Focus Activity Deferred Tax Assets from Legacy Capital Losses Following the identification of significant tax losses in legacy companies, the Committee requested information about the timing of recognition and realisation of this tax asset and any risks which could impair its value.
The Committee also considered the communication and reporting of these losses, including engaging in discussion with external advisers, which enabled it to support managements recommended approach.
See further detail on page 28.
The Committee also considered the expected use of tax losses identified in earlier years, and reviewed other deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Migration of UT and ISA Business to the The Committee discussed the migration testing strategy and Bluedoor Administration System work, targeted Internal Audit work on this important project and received reports prepared by both management and external consultants.
Furthermore, members of the Committee attended governance meetings to ensure the processes were robust, and reviewed the results of dry runs.
The Committee concurred with managements decision to migrate UT and ISA business to the new system, which was successfully completed in October.
Revised Contract with IFDS As part of the final approval process for a new contract with IFDS, the Committee carried out an oversight review of managements review of the contract and in particular the financials.
The Committee also discussed the implications for financial reporting, and in particular agreed with management on the recognition in the financial statements, and the recoverability, of a pre-payment for development costs that will be recognised over the lifetime of the contract.
Acquisition of Rowan Dartington The Committee reviewed and agreed the proposed approach to consolidation of the additional entity and reporting of the transaction costs and intangibles.
New Partner Share Option Scheme During the year the business decided to offer a new share option scheme to SJP Partners to support retention and promote productivity of our most successful Partner businesses.
The Committee supported the proposed approach to financial statement disclosure.
Developments in relation to cyber security controls were considered by the Risk Committee as part of its discussions around the Groups risk appetite in this area of increasing risk.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 73 This year was also significant for Financial Reporting and Regulatory changes within the industry, with a number of key areas for the Committee to consider: Area of Focus Activity Solvency II In Conjunction with the Risk Committee Final preparations were made during the year, ready for implementation in January 2016.
The Committee was informed of progress in the project, including monitoring of the project and reports by Internal Audit, and considered the potential impact on corporate reporting.
The Committee also approved the approach taken to reporting Solvency II information in the year-end Report and Accounts.
UK GAAP Update As part of its regular review of developments in accounting standards, the Committee assessed and supported the move to adopting FRS 101 for most of the Group companies.
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code As well as monitoring developments with the FRC, the Including Viability Statement Committee considered the changes required to satisfy the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular the Committee discussed and agreed the approach to the viability statement.
EU Audit Directive Although national implementation of the EU Audit Directive is yet to be completed, the Committee has anticipated the likely implications and has updated the Groups Policy on auditor independence accordingly.
New Business Metrics APE Annual Premium Equivalent Following developments in industry reporting, the Group decided to stop reporting performance on the APE measure.
The Committee was involved in reviewing the proposed change and considering any potential risks.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable Opinion The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to give its opinion as to whether it considers the Companys Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position, and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To aid the Board, the Audit Committee carried out a formal review of the Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement, including a consideration of the results of activities and information described above.
In particular, the Committee reflected on the following questions: Does the report present the whole story, including challenges and issues faced as well as Company achievements?
Does the report achieve consistency between the financial statements and the narrative sections?
Are appropriate performance measures included and clearly explained?
Are key judgements and estimation uncertainties in the financial statements explained and are they consistent with the Audit Committee report and the risks the external auditor intends to include in its report?
Does the report have a clear and cohesive structure?
Is the report readable and are the important messages highlighted appropriately?
Are explanations of business models, strategies and accounting policies clear?
Following this review, the Committee was able to advise the Board that the Companys Report and Accounts for the year ended 31December 2015 are indeed fair, balanced and understandable.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 74 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED External Auditor The Committee has responsibility for the work of the external auditors of the Company.
The auditors attended all Audit Committee meetings, and reported on their work.
The Chair of the Committee also met regularly with the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The Audit plan was presented, discussed and agreed with the Audit Committee at the October meeting, setting out the activity planned and the major risks identified.
Regular progress updates were presented at the November and January meetings, with a full report presented at the conclusion of the audit in February.
The Committee discussed the findings from the work under the headings of the major risks as set out in the original Audit plan and members applied their understanding of the scope of work, findings, judgements and conclusions of the external audit in their evaluation that the financial statements had been properly prepared.
During the year the Committee developed a revised Policy on Auditor Independence.
The new policy is available on the Company website.
The policy makes clear the types of non-audit work which are prohibited, and our robust policy of only engaging our auditor for limited non-audit work, where there is no risk of compromising independence, and where it is appropriate to do so.
The policy also sets out St. Jamess Places commitment to regular rotation of the auditors, taking into account both the EU and Competition and Markets Authority rules.
In particular the Committee is committed to reviewing the performance of the auditor every year, and considering whether a change is required.
The Committee used their experience and the following additional information to assess the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditor: Area of Focus Activity Auditor Effectiveness The findings of the annual review by the FRC of the main auditing firms.
The Audit Quality Review report on  LLP specifically.
The outcome of the review by the FRC of the 2014 audit of the Company the Committee reviewed the comments, discussed them with PwC and was satisfied with the outcome.
The experience and knowledge of the team with due regard to the requirement for regular rotation of audit team members.
Results of an internal survey of auditor performance.
Results of the review of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, which was used to inform the Committees review of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Auditor Independence and Review of the nature and extent of other non-audit work undertaken to confirm Objectivity compliance with our policy.
Review by SJP to confirm no links or investments with the Company by the Audit Team.
Regular rotation of Audit Team.
Appropriate considerations when recruiting a former audit partner.
Level of Fees Detailed information on the breakdown of fees paid to our external audit firm is provided in Note 6 of the Accounts on page 134.
As a result of this work, the Committee concluded that the audit service of  LLP was fit for purpose and provided a robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys financial statements.
As a consequence it was agreed that it was not necessary to tender the audit during the year.
However, since PwC was appointed as auditor in 2009, it is expected that, in the best interests of shareholders, the audit will be tendered during 2016 in respect of the 2017 year-end audit though this need not result in a change of audit firm.
We will need to change audit firm at least by 2027.
Having rotated our Senior Statutory Auditor in 2014, we will also at least require a further rotation by 2019.
Taking into account these plans and disclosure, we believe that we comply with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 75 Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring the work of the Internal Audit function and its effectiveness.
The Director of Audit has regular access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board and is accountable to the Audit Committee.
During the year the Committee reviewed and approved the Audit Charter, as required by the standards of the IIA Institute of Internal Auditors, and confirmed the updated document complies with the internal audit policy requirements of the Solvency II directive.
The Internal Audit function also presented periodic reviews of the skills and capabilities within the team.
The Committee encouraged the Director of Audit to put in place a formal co-sourcing agreement and Deloitte LLP was chosen for this purpose after a competitive selection process.
Co-sourcing provides specialist expertise and additional resources to maintain and enhance the level of assurance.
The work plan for the Internal Audit function was agreed at the start of the year, and progress was monitored through the year, with particular focus on whether the team had the necessary resources to implement the plan in a timely manner.
The Committee encouraged an external quality assessment of the Internal Audit function, which was conducted by independent consultants.
This confirmed compliance with the International IIA standards to which the function is benchmarked and the Code for Effective Internal Audits in Financial Services.
There were a number of minor recommendations to improve the effectiveness and resilience of the internal audit function and the Committee ensured that appropriate changes were made.
Risk based Internal Audit work during the year has focused on several themes identified at the planning stage with the Committee, for example: Area of Focus Activity Governance Delegations of authority across the Group.
Management of conflicts of interest.
Major Change Initiatives Administration system extensive coverage of the programme to upgrade the Groups back-office administration systems.
Solvency II specific audits to ensure preparedness for compliance in 2016.
Core Compliance and Regulatory Risk Audits Complaints handling and case checking of written business.
Management of Third Parties and Outsourced Review of risk and control management at IFDS and Capita.
Service Providers General audit coverage of other key third parties.
Other Key Operational Risks Business continuity planning including oversight of .
Information technology review of data quality.
When receiving regular updates from the Director of Internal Audit in relation to the results from completed audits, the Committee paid careful attention to any areas where the audit led to remedial action being recommended.
The actions arising were monitored to ensure completion.
In practice, 86% 2014: 85% of actions were completed in line with the original agreed deadlines, with the rest expected to be completed by appropriately agreed revised deadlines.
System of Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control systems and for reporting on any significant failing or weaknesses.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee work closely together to support the Board in this responsibility, with the Board having delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for reviewing the effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and internal controls framework, and responsibility to the Risk Committee for oversight of risk management.
The Risk Committee therefore provides regular updates to the Audit Committee on the status of risk management in the Group.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 76 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Group adopts the three lines of defence model as the design basis for its internal control framework and the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the framework takes account of this model as follows: Area of Focus Activity First Line Operations Control Self-Assessment attestation from management.
Attestation by significant third party suppliers of outsourced administration services.
CEO attestation to the Board Audit Committee on the first line operations.
Second Line Risk Management and Controls Control assessments Risk control self-assessments: Compliance monitoring: and Business assurance thematic reviews.
Review led by the Controls Manager at half year and year-end.
CEO attestation to the Board Audit Committee on the second line, risk management functions.
Reports from the Board Risk Committee.
Third Line Audit Internal Audit ongoing activity, including reviews by external organisations, managed by Internal Audit e. g. KPMG file reviews.
Internal Audit Internal Control Evaluation report.
In summary, the Chief Executive has ultimate responsibility for the first two lines of defence and uses his knowledge of the business, and that of his senior management team, to provide an opinion on the control systems.
Separately, Internal Audit provides an independent opinion the Internal Control Evaluation report, from a third line perspective, based on Internal Audit activity conducted throughout the year and Internal Audits further analysis and appraisal of the outputs from a wide range of other sources.
These sources of assurance assist the Audit Committee in completing its annual review and enable the Audit Committee to attest on behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the 2014 FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The Audit Committee did not identify any significant failings or weaknesses and it has ensured that corrective action is being taken on matters arising from the review.
Other Activity The Chair of the Committee acts as the key contact for the Whistleblowing Policy and will be the whistleblowers champion under the Senior Insurance Managers Regime.
The Committee has reviewed whistleblowing arrangements in light of the PRA policy statement in October 2015 and will oversee the amendments and communications required prior to the new rules coming into force on 7 September 2016.
Self-Assessment As part of the annual process of Board evaluation, the Committee considered its overall performance during the year.
Overall the Committee judged itself to be effective, but consideration was given to the possibility that, as both the Audit and Risk Committees fulfil similar oversight roles, there could be duplication.
As a result, formal arrangements have been introduced to further strengthen the working relationship, including ensuring that the Chairs of the Audit and Risk Committees liaise on agendas.
The Committee was also included in the Board Evaluation process and no material issues were highlighted in respect of its operation.
The terms of reference, which were revised in 2015 and which set out the Committees role and authority, can be found on the corporate website at www.
