64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Make up of the Board and its Committees Board Organisation and Governance Structure The Board Risk The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Sarah Bates Chairman Iain Cornish Chair Sarah Bates was appointed as Chairman of the Board on David Bellamy CEO Simon Jeffreys 1January 2014.
The job descriptions of the Chairman and Andrew Croft Baroness Wheatcroft Chief Executive Officer, David Bellamy, and the division of David Lamb Roger Yates responsibilities between them are clearly defined and agreed Ian Gascoigne by the Board.
As Chairman, Sarah takes responsibility for the Iain Cornish SID leadership of your Board, ensuring its continued effectiveness, Nomination Simon Jeffreys and promoting effective communication between the Executive Sarah Bates Chair Baroness Wheatcroft and Non-executive Directors, as well as with shareholders Iain Cornish Roger Yates generally.
As Chief Executive, Davids primary responsibility Baroness Wheatcroft is to manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
Audit Remuneration Simon Jeffreys Chair Roger Yates Chair Iain Cornish The Senior Independent Director Simon Jeffreys Roger Yates Iain Cornish was appointed Senior Independent Director in Baroness Wheatcroft January 2014 and his job description has been agreed by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding The Role of the Board board and confidant for the Chairman and the Non-executive Board Leadership Directors.
Iain also ensures he is available to meet with Your Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success shareholders and raises any shareholder concerns with the of the Company by: Board that might not be resolved through normal channels.
Providing entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company in setting out its strategic aims, visions and values Committees and overseeing delivery against these: There are four Non-executive Committees of the Board: Audit: Monitoring financial performance and reporting: Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The members of each of Setting the Companys risk appetite, assessing the principal these Committees are the independent Non-executive Directors, risks facing the Company and ensuring that adequate controls with the exception of the chair of the Nomination Committee, are in place to manage risk effectively: which is the Chairman of the Company.
The membership and Ensuring that the appropriate and effective succession planning terms of reference of each of these Board Committees are arrangements and remuneration policies are in place: reviewed annually and are available on the corporate website Implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company Secretary.
Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the Executives: and The Executive Committee, the Executive Board comprises Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and political the Executive Directors of the Board and other members of donations.
It is via the Executive Board that operational matters are delegated to management.
The Executive Board is There is a full schedule of matters reserved to the Board and responsible for communicating and implementing the Groups the Company also maintains a Board Control Manual which business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms are in place in order to achieve those objectives, and managing within the Company.
This includes terms of reference for the the day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
The terms of various Board Committees, as well as the Companys risk reference for the Executive Board are also regularly reviewed policies and risk appetite statement.
Detailed job descriptions and are included in the Board Control Manual.
In addition, for each of the Executive Directors and Non-executive thereis a Disclosure Committee of Executive Directors, Directors are also included.
responsible for identifying and determining matters to be disclosed to the market.
Biographical details of the Executive and Non-executive Directors who make up your Board are set out on pages 60 and 61.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 There are also a number of committees below the main Board Committees and these assist the Executive Board in executing its responsibilities.
They each have Terms of Reference which set out clearly their delegated authorities and a right of escalation of matters outside that remit to the Executive Board.
A table showing the current supporting governance structure is set out below.
St. Jamess Place plc Shareholders Matters reserved for Shareholder resolution St. Jamess Place plc Board Chair: Sarah Bates Matters reserved to Board Remuneration Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive Board Nomination Committee Committee NEDs NEDs Execs NEDs NEDs Chair: Simon Je reys Chair: Iain Cornish Chair: David Bellamy Chair: Sarah Bates Chair: Roger Yates Investment Advice Steering Field ExCo Finance ExCo Distribution ExCo Client ExCo Committee Group Chair: Ian Gascoigne Chair: Andrew Croft Chair: Ian Gascoigne Chair: Will Alterman IMA Chair: Ian MacKenzie Chair: David Lamb Board Composition Board Size and Composition The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors, fourindependent Non-executive Directors and the Chairman who was independent on appointment.
There were no changes to the Board during 2015.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Independence When determining whether a Non-executive Director is independent, your Board considers each individual against the criteria set out in the Code and also considers how they conduct themselves in Board meetings, including how they exercise judgement and independent thinking.
Taking these factors into account, the Board believes that all the Non-executive Directors continue to demonstrate their independence.
In the Remuneration Report in the 2014 Report and Accounts, we highlighted the ownership of New Bridge Street advisers to the Remuneration Committee and confirmed the other business relationships that Aon plc NBSs parent company has with the Company.
The Board was satisfied that this had no bearing on the independence of NBS as our advisers on remuneration and stated this on page 77 of the 2014 Report and Accounts.
Since the 2014 Report and Accounts, Simon Jeffreys Non-executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee has become Chair of Aon UK Limited, part of the Aon Group of Companies which also includes NBS.
The Board has now examined the nature of the relationships between Simon Jeffreys and NBS as a result of his position at Aon UK Limited, and is satisfied that this has no effect on the independence of either party.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Duration of Appointments Board Effectiveness The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are appointed The Board undertakes a review of its effectiveness each year, for a specified term and the Executive Directors have service organised by the Chairman.
At least once every three years this contracts with the Group copies of the terms and conditions of is facilitated by an external party and a formal external appointment of all Directors are available for inspection at the evaluation of the Board took place in 2015.
Further details of the registered office address.
However, all Directors are subject to review and its key findings are set out on page 69. annual re-election by shareholders.
Board Training Time Commitments Induction Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least 15-25 An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable all days per annum and in practice commit considerably more time new Board Directors to meet senior management, understand than this.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-executive the business and future strategy, visit various office locations and Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the speak directly to Partners and staff around the country as well as Company and further details of work carried out by the being introduced to other key stakeholders.
Nomination Committee in this respect is set out on page 81.
Continuing Professional Development Since her appointment in January 2014, the Chairman has The Chairman and Company Secretary also ensure the continuing devoted a significant proportion of her time to the role.
In professional development for all your Directors, based on their conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, she regularly individual requirements, and a list of training carried out during assesses her various commitments and continues to manage her the year is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Such training portfolio of other activities to ensure that she has sufficient time includes topical issues, visits to head office and other locations to to meet the requirements of the position.
She currently holds meet with staff and members of the Partnership and attending three other non-executive roles and two Chairmanship roles in seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
In other publicly listed companies: however, the Chairmanships and addition to this, ad hoc training is set up in the year to deal with two of the non-executive roles are with Investment Trusts which individual requests and the Non-executive Directors are able to generally require less time commitment than an operational attend seminars or conferences which they consider will assist company, and which provide useful and valuable investment them in carrying out their duties.
Non-executive Directors are insight to Board discussions.
She has a full attendance record at briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and the Companys Board meetings in 2015 and has also attended are provided with the opportunity to meet with shareholders, twenty Board Committee meetings in addition to spending a as appropriate.
substantial amount of time engaging with the business outside formal Board and Committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied Board Functioning that she commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board Agenda together with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Succession Planning and Diversity Secretary.
For each Board meeting, all Board members are The Board has a responsibility to ensure that appropriate supplied with an agenda and pack containing specific papers on succession plans are in place both for the Board, the Executive strategic issues, reports and management information on current Board and senior management.
The expansion of the Executive trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and Board in 2014 and the restructuring of that Executive Board and financial matters.
The Chairs of the various committees of the the roles held by its members with effect from the end of 2015 Board report to the Board at each Board meeting and copies of has provided a robust succession plan for the future and this, committee meeting minutes are included where appropriate in together with the Board succession plans, will continue to be the Board packs.
To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a material or more discursive nature, Board dinners The Board also continued to develop its initiative around patterns are usually held prior to most scheduled Board meetings, which of female participation and diversity in different parts of the Group allows the Directors greater time to discuss their views.
and the Partnership and this will continue to be a focus in 2016.
In addition to the strategic discussion at Board meetings, the Directors attend two separate Strategy Days each year and, during 2015, these focused on some of the areas set out on page 68.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 Culture The Board exercises oversight over the Companys culture and regularly considers how both employees and Partners adhere to it and reviews measures to retain the Groups culture.
The manner in which employees and Partners can adhere to the culture is set out in a series of Our Approach documents, including The Spirit of the Partnership.
Company Secretariat Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at all times, as well as independent professional advice where needed in order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Relations with Shareholders The Company maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings, and meets regularly with the Groups brokers who facilitate meetings with investors and their representatives.
During 2015, shareholder interaction included giving shareholder roadshows, where the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer presented the Companys full year and half year results to investors, attending investor conferences and holding general investor meetings and conference calls.
The Chief Financial Officer provides feedback to the Board on any material topics raised in these meetings and Board members also receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company, and will attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from time to time.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available for consultation with shareholders on request and will be available after the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held on Wednesday, 4 May 2016, further details of which are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders in 2015, to make sure they had contact details for her, the SID and the new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and to ask if any major shareholder had specific comments or queries.
No such comments or queries were made.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors also attended the Capital Markets Day and post results analysts briefings.
She will be attending a number of shareholder meetings with the executive team in 2016.
Board Meetings and Focus During 2015 Meetings During the year, seven formal Board meetings were held and there were two additional Board Strategy meetings.
There were also twenty Board Committee meetings.
Attendance at both Board and Board Committee meetings is set out below.
Board and Committee Attendance in 2015 Member Plc Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Sarah Bates 7 7 3 3 David Bellamy 7 7 Iain Cornish 7 7 7 7 7 7 3 3 Andrew Croft 7 7 Ian Gascoigne 7 7 Simon Jeffreys 7 7 7 7 7 7 3 3 David Lamb 7 7 Baroness Wheatcroft 7 7 7 7 3 3 3 3 Roger Yates 7 7 7 7 7 7 3 3 Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that the Board members were eligible to attend.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition, the independent Non-executive Directors met Reviewed and approved the ORSA required under the new without the Executive Directors but with the Chairman three Solvency II regime, further details of which are set out on times during the year, and also met once without the Chairman.
page 41: Conducted a deep dive on the Companys risk strategy and progress against plan, monitored the Companys risk Board Activities During 2015 management and internal control systems and carried out a A summary of some of the topics considered by the Board during review of their effectiveness see page 69 for a report on that 2015 is set out below and in the Chairmans Report on pages 62 review : and and 63.
Reports on the activities of each of the Board Oversaw the project to upgrade the Groups back-office Committees during 2015 are set out on pages 70 to 83. administration systems, as discussed in the Report and Accounts for 2014, and also risks in relation to third party Highlights of 2015 Board Business outsourcing arrangements.
The following provides an overview of the key matters considered by the Board in 2015.
Governance Strategy The Board: Considered and received training on the impending The Board: implementation of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime Discussed possible future financial market behaviours, with and approved the Governance Maps for the Group and SJPUK anexternal speaker: a key requirement of the regime that were submitted to the Considered the strategic direction of its Investment PRA at the end of 2015: Management Approach taking into account market and Worked to ensure, via its various reporting forums, that the political conditions, the scale of funds under management Group complied with all of its obligations and responsibilities together with proposed industry and product developments, under UK Company Law as well as the revised UK Corporate risks and constraints: Governance Code: Received regular updates and discussed the changing landscape As noted in the Audit Committee report, reviewed the in relation to pensions and the Governments Pensions Reforms financial statements and considered they were indeed fair, together with the Financial Advice Market Review: balanced and understandable, and that they provide the Considered and approved the acquisition of Rowan Dartington, necessary clarity required by shareholders to sufficiently a discretionary fund manager, which acquisition has received understand the business: regulatory approval and will be completed imminently: Considered the new requirement for a viability statement to Approved the launch of a new Money Management Account be included in the Report and Accounts together with the most through Metrobank: appropriate timeframe on which to base its viability statement, Conducted deep dives on the strategies relating to further details of which are set out on page 42: clients and client outcomes: Commissioned and participated in an external evaluation of the Partnership: the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees generally.
capacity and capability: Details of the evaluation are set out on page 69: and risk: and Internal individual peer reviews were also conducted with expenses.
Reviewed and approved a new Partner Share Option scheme: Received updates on progress of the Asian operations: and Approved the Companys Business Plan for 2015.
Succession and Diversity The Board: Risk Management Spent considerable time reviewing the Groups succession plans through the Nomination Committee, looking to ensure The Board: the continued development of senior management and Undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing agreeing to the proposed restructuring of the Executive the Group, in accordance with C. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Board members responsibilities as outlined on page 81: and Governance Code, including those that would threaten its Noted the establishment of a group to review patterns of business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity female participation in the organisation.
see pages 43 to 47 for description of these risks and how they are being managed or mitigated and approved the Groups Risk Framework and the Groups Risk Appetite Statement see also the report of the Risk Committee on pages 77 to 79 : ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 69 The findings of the 2015 review were that the Board was working Finance, Regulatory and Statutory well, considering the right topics in a timely basis with an The Board: appropriate level of challenge.
The Non-executive Directors were Received regular updates on extensive regulatory changes conscientious and prepared thoroughly for Board and Committee including Solvency II and the Senior Insurance Managers meetings and the management team received value from, and were Regime mentioned above: influenced by, the Non-executive Directors contributions.
Was presented with a deep-dive on the Groups expenses: Had regular contact with the Groups regulators to ensure Therefore, overall this was a positive report reflecting that the effective and appropriate engagements with them, with the Board had made good progress in the last three years and there FCA also attending a Board meeting during the year: and were no major issues or concerns that were not already under Approved the Annual Report and the shareholder notice of consideration.
However, to improve Board effectiveness further, Annual General Meeting.
the main areas to focus on were: Enhancing Board engagement by considering additional Training informal meetings involving Board members, keeping During the year all the Directors identified and undertook Non-executive Directors updated on SJP communications relevant training based on their individual requirements.
They events and increasing engagement at shareholder meetings, also attended a specific training day covering SJP products and and continuing to enhance the quality of, and focus on, services, SJP funds, Governance and Resolution Planning.
In strategic discussions: addition, during 2015 the Non-executive Directors identified Improving meeting administration to streamline the format areas that they particularly wished to receive training and and volume of information going to the Board and the development including meeting Partners and visiting Locations timeliness of papers, improving the scheduling of certain and attending Executive Committee meetings.
Audit Committee meetings, reviewing attendance by management at meetings and reviewing the secretariat 2015 Board Effectiveness Review support for the Board Committees and the Executive Board: Last year we conducted an internal evaluation of the Boards Engaging further in Board development by building on effectiveness the results of which were set out in last years the current training for Non-executive Directors through Report and Accounts and I am pleased to say that we have made further briefing sessions on more complex areas of the good progress in relation to the key actions arising from that business and reviewing and updating the induction process review.
This included setting aside time at future Board meetings for Non-executive Directors: and to discuss issues in more depth, and further training and Building on existing long term succession planning to ensure development for Non-executive Directors.
continued discussion on this topic at Board level and greater visibility to the Board of succession plans below the Board and As mentioned earlier in this Report, in 2015 the Board undertook the Executive Board.
an external evaluation, which was conducted by Sean OHare from Boardroom Dialogue.
Boardroom Dialogue also provided The Company will report on the progress of the above action some advice on long term succession planning.
Sean OHare was a plan in the 2016 Report and Accounts.
partner in the Human Resource Services Group at PwC but retired on 31 December 2013 and thus his independence was not During 2015, the Chairman also assessed the individual affected.
He does not have any other connections with, nor has performance of each member of the Board, by way of a undertaken any other work for, the Group.
questionnaire and individual discussions, to consider performance and establish Board related objectives.
Training and development This review focused on identifying where the Board was working needs for 2016 were also identified and the output from these well and areas for improvement.
It was conducted between reviews will be taken into account in drawing up the Board August and December and consisted of: effectiveness plan for 2016.
1:1 interviews with each of the members of the Board, key executives, the Company Secretary and the Audit Partner Compliance with the UK Corporate from PwC: Governance Code Observation of Board and Committee meetings held over the The Boards statement of compliance with the provisions of the period: and UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 is set out on page 100.
A review of the Board and Committee agendas, minutes and papers for the previous 12 months.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
