80 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee plays a crucial role in ensuring that the structure and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity is appropriate to continue to lead the Group and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee must also ensure that the skills and attributes necessary at those levels immediately below the Board are also constantly reviewed, in order to ensure that there is an appropriate and talented succession pipeline.
There has been considerable focus on succession planning in this respect, continuing the work carried out last year and referred to in the 2014 Report and Accounts and reflected in the further development of the Executive Committee and the roles of its members over the last year.
The Committee has devoted time to reviewing diversity within the Group and some good progress has been made.
The Committee has also been engaged in the external Board Evaluation process which has been designed to highlight what Sarah Bates the Board and its Committees do well and any key areas for Chair of the Nomination Committee improvement.
Further details of the Board Evaluation can be found on page 69.
This report provides further details of the work undertaken Role of the Committee in Summary during the year.
To regularly review Board and Committee composition and structure: To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval, suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: Sarah Bates To appropriately consider succession planning for Directors On behalf of the Nomination Committee and senior management, taking into account diversity, 22 March 2016 experience, knowledge and skills: and To report to the Board on the work of the Committee Nomination Committee Members Sarah Bates Chair Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 During the year, the Committee also concentrated on diversity Committee Membership During 2015 within the Group and the Partnership, receiving a number of The members of the Committee remained unchanged during reports and statistics from senior management who had carried 2015 and up to and including the date of this report.
Details of out reviews in this area.
Whilst there is female representation, attendance at the meetings of the Nomination Committee a number of measures have been identified to make further throughout the year can be found on page 67. progress and this work will continue during 2016.
Committee Activities During 2015 The Committee also discussed the scope of the external Board In 2015, a continued key area of focus was reviewing succession Evaluation exercise undertaken by Boardroom Dialogue and plans for the Executive.
Good progress has been made in this considered the outcome, noting that no material issues were respect and the further restructuring of the Executive Board highlighted in respect of its operation.
and the reorganisation of functional responsibilities at the end of the year has marked the continued development of a platform for The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and future succession.
Succession planning will continue to evolve authority, and which were reviewed and updated in 2015, can be during 2016. found on the corporate website at www.
The Committee continued to keep the composition and structure of the Board and its various Committees under review.
In particular, looking to ensure that the existing skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence of the various members remained appropriate both now and in the future, as well as considering whether there was any requirement to draw in additional skills from elsewhere.
The Committee is still of the opinion not to set a 25% target for female representation for the Board in 2016, noting that the level of female representation on the Board is still close to satisfying the target at the present time and that the Company has a femaleChairman.
The Committee also undertook a review of the independence of the Non-executive Directors, and, having satisfied itself that the existing mix of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence and the structure of the Board and Committees remain appropriate, the Committee has not felt it necessary to make any recommendations to engage additional Board Members or change the structure of the Board or its Committees during the current year, although it will be considering its plans for the future in order to plan for its own refreshment and succession.
The proportion of the Board excluding the Chairman that comprises independent Directors remains at 50% and the Board therefore continues to comply with the Corporate Governance Code further details are contained on page 100.
The Committee also reviewed some detailed analysis as to the significant other commitments of the Non-executive Directors and how much time they were spending on the Companys business and affairs.
As mentioned on page 66, the Nonexecutive Directors are able to, and do, commit sufficient time to the Companys business and, indeed, considerably exceed the expected number of days they are required to spend.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
