Board of directors Sir John Peace 66 Bill Winters, CBE 54 Mike Rees 60 Andy Halford 56 Chairman Group Chief Executive Deputy Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Deputy Chairman in Appointed: June 2015 Appointed: August 2009, Appointed: July 2014 2007, becoming Group Chairman becoming Deputy Group Chief Experience: Bill is a career banker Experience: Andy has a strong in2009.
Aspreviously announced, Executive in April 2014.
As with significant frontline global finance background and deep Sir John has indicated his intention announced on 7 January 2016, banking experience and a proven experience of managing complex to step down from the Board during Mikewill retire from the Board track record of leadership and international businesses across the course of2016.
He has extensive dynamic and changing markets.
Experience: Sir John has a strong experience of working in emerging Experience: Mike has extensive Andy was finance director at East financial services and retailing markets and a proven record in and wide-ranging international Midlands Electricity plc prior to background, significant board and spotting and nurturing talent.
He held several joining Vodafone in 1999 as financial chairmanship experience, extensive began his career with JP Morgan, roles in finance at JP Morgan before director for Vodafone Limited, the international knowledge and where he went on to become one joining Standard Chartered in 1990 UK operating company.
Andy was exemplary governance credentials.
ofits top five most senior executives as the Chief Financial Officer for later appointed financial director He joined the board of GUS plc and later co-chief executive officer Global Treasury, becoming the forVodafones Northern Europe, in1997, of which Burberry and at the investment bank from 2004 Regional Treasurer in Singapore, Middle East and Africa region, Experian were a part, becoming until he stepped down in 2009. responsible for the South East Asia andlater the chief financial officer chief executive from 2000 until Billwas invited to be a committee Treasury businesses.
Mike was later ofVerizon Wireless in the US.
In 2002, Burberry was floated member of the Independent appointed Group Head of Global He was amember of the board on the London Stock Exchange with Commission on Banking, Markets and Chief Executive, ofrepresentatives of the Verizon Sir John as its chairman, a position established in 2010 to recommend Wholesale Banking, responsible Wireless Partnership.
Andy was he continues to hold.
In 2006, Sir ways to improve competition and forall commercial banking products appointed chief financial officer John became chairman of Experian, financial stability in banking.
in addition to his responsibilities for ofVodafone Group plc in 2005, a position he held until he stepped Subsequently, he served as an global markets products.
Mike was aposition he held for nine years.
Sir John is committed advisor to the Parliamentary appointed Deputy Group Chief AsGroup Chief Financial Officer to supporting his local community Commission on Banking Standards Executive in 2014.
He has vast atStandard Chartered, Andy is and has a long-standing interest and was asked by the Court of the knowledge of the Group, our clients responsible for Finance, Corporate ineducation.
He chaired the board Bank of England to complete an and our markets and provided Treasury, Group Corporate of governors of Nottingham Trent independent review of the banks valuable support to the Board and Development, Group Investor University for 10 years, has been liquidity operations.
Billfounded the Management Team in shaping Relations, Property and Global atrustee of the Djanogly City Renshaw Bay, an alternative asset and executing our new strategy.
Andy is a Academy in Nottingham since management firm, in 2011 where From October 2015, he also non-executive director at Marks 1999, is Lord-Lieutenant of hewas chairman andCEO before assumed responsibility for the andSpencer Group plc and Nottinghamshire and a fellow of the stepping down onappointment to Groups Brand and Marketing.
amember of the Business Forum Royal Society of Arts.
Sir John has the Standard Chartered PLC Board.
Mikeisa member of the International onTax and Competitiveness.
an honorary doctorate from the Billwas previously a non-executive Advisory Board of Mauritius and University of Nottingham and was director of Pension Insurance theMayor of Romes business knighted in 2011 for services to Corporation plc and RIT Capital advisorycouncil.
business and the voluntary sector.
Heis an independent non-executive director of Novartis Committees Committees International AG.
He received a CBE Audit Committee in 2013.
Board Risk Committee B rand, Values and Conduct Committee G overnance and Nomination Committee B oard Financial Crime Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair shown in green Board membership changes Jasmine Whitbread Gay Huey Evans The composition and size of the Bill Winters David Conner Board continued to transition during the year in line with our intention 18 toreduce the size of the Board.
18 16 Thenumber of executive directors on 14 theBoard reduced from five to three, 14 12 and following Mike Rees retirement atthe end of April 2016 will reduce 10 further totwo with an overall Board 8 size of 14 members.
6 4 2 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr Apr Apr Apr May June June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Dec Jan Jan Apr 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 62 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Oliver Stocken Jaspal Bindra V Shankar Peter Sands Ruth Markland Paul Skinner Lars Thunell Mike Rees Number of directors Directors report Naguib Kheraj 51 David Conner 67 Christine Hodgson 51 Jasmine Whitbread 52 Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 2014, Appointed: January 2016 Appointed: September 2013 Appointed: April 2015 becoming Senior Independent Experience: David has significant Experience: Christine has strong Experience: Jasmine has Director in June 2015. global banking experience, strong business leadership, finance, significant business leadership Experience: Naguib has significant risk management credentials and accounting and technology experience as well as first-hand banking and finance experience.
anin-depth knowledge of Asian experience.
Christine held a number experience of operating across our Hebegan his career at Salomon markets.
David spent his career of senior positions at Coopers & markets.
Jasmine began her career Brothers in 1986 and went on to inthe financial services industry, Lybrand and was corporate in international marketing in the hold senior positions atRobert living and working across Asia for development director of Ronson plc technology sector and joined Fleming, Barclays, JP Morgan 37years, for both Citibank and before joining Capgemini in 1997, Thomson Financial in 1994, Cazenove and Lazard.
He joined Citibank in where she held avariety of roles becoming managing director of the course of 12 years at Barclays, 1976 asa management trainee and including chief financial officer for Electronic Settlements Group.
After Naguib served as group finance went on to hold a number of senior Capgemini UK plc and chief completing the Stanford Executive director and vice-chairman and in management Asian-based roles, executive officer of technology Program, Jasmine set up one of various business leadership positions including chief executive officer services for North West Europe, Oxfams first regional offices, in Wealth Management, Institutional ofCitibank India and managing before being appointed chair of managing nine country operations Asset Management and Investment director and marketing manager Capgemini UK plc.
Christine was inWest Africa, later becoming Banking.
Naguib was also a atCitibank Japan, before leaving previously a trustee of MacIntyre international director responsible Barclays nominated non-executive Citibank in 2002.
David joined Care before stepping down in forOxfams programmes worldwide.
director of Absa Group in South OCBC Bank in Singapore aschief September 2015.
She is a nonJasmine joined Save the Children Africa, and of FirstCaribbean executive officer and director in executive director and senior in2005, where she was responsible International Bank.
He implemented a strategy independent director at Ladbrokes for revitalising one of the UKs as chief executive officer of JP ofgrowth and led the bank through plc and sits on the board of The mostestablished charities.
Naguib is a a period ofsignificant turbulence.
Prince of Wales Business in the she was appointed as Save the former non-executive director of David stepped down as chief Community.
Christine is also chair of Childrens first international chief NHS England and served as a senior executive officer in 2012 but The Careers & Enterprise Company executive officer, where she led the advisor to Her Majestys Revenue remained as a non-executive Limited, a government-backed merger of 14 separate organisations and Customs and to the Financial director on the Board of OCBC company established to help inspire into one management line of 15,000 Services Authority in the UK.
Bank, before leaving the group and prepare young people for the people across seven regions and Naguibis currently a non-executive in2014.
David is a non-executive world of work.
60countries, while aligning the director of Rothesay Life, a specialist director ofGasLog Partners LP.
federation behind a single mission Committees.
pensions insurer, and member and strategy.
Jasmine stepped Committees oftheinvestment committee of the down from Save the Children in Wellcome Trust.
She is a nonthemajority of his time as a executive director of BT Group plc.
senioradvisor to the Aga Khan Committees Development Network and serves on the boards of various entities within its network.
Committees Committees Audit Committee Board Risk Committee B rand, Values and Conduct Committee G overnance and Nomination Committee B oard Financial Crime Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair shown in green Board diversity Gender diversity Our long history of operating in some ofthe worlds most dynamic and Executive Non-executive Board diversemarkets has given us a deep understanding of the benefits of a varied Female Female and diverse team.
This diversity of 31% 23% experience, knowledge, skills and background is equally beneficial around 17% 11% the boardroom table providing a rich perspective of discussion.
We are making progress in reaching our ambition of 100% 83% 89% 25per cent female representation on theBoard by 2017.
As at the end of December 2015, the Board comprised Male Male Male 23per cent women, and following recent 100% 69% 77% Board changes at the beginning of 2016, women make up 20 per cent of the Board as at 23 February 2016.
As at end 2015 As at end 2014 63 Board of directors Simon Lowth 54 Om Bhatt 64 Dr Kurt Campbell 58 Dr Louis Cheung 52 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: May 2010 Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: June 2013 Appointed: January 2013 Experience: Simon has significant Experience: Om has extensive Experience: Kurt has a wealth Experience: Louis has broad expertise in finance, capital banking, financial services and ofexperience of the US political financial services and investor allocation, portfolio, and risk leadership acumen, with deep environment and significant relations credentials, particularly in management and strategy.
knowledge and experience across experience of some of our key aGreater China context.
Louis was Simonspent 15 years with the India, one of our largest markets.
a global partner of McKinsey & global management consultancy, Om had a career spanning 38 years Kurthas served in several capacities Company and a leader in its Asia McKinsey & Company, latterly as with the State Bank of India SBI, in the US government, including Pacific financial institutions practice asenior director responsible for Indias largest commercial bank, deputy assistant secretary of prior to joining Ping An Insurance thefirms UK industrial practice, where heheld a number of roles defence for Asia and Pacific Affairs Group in 2000.
Louis worked in where he advised leading multibeginning with the lead bank and director on the National Security several senior roles at Ping An, national companies on a wide range department, which pioneered Council Staff in the White House.
including chief financial officer, of strategic, financial and operational financial inclusion.
He led the project Kurt was founder and chairman of before becoming group president issues.
He joined Scottish Power team that pioneered SBIs StratAsia, a strategic advisory firm in2003 and executive director PLC in 2003 as executive director, technology initiative in the 1990s, focused on Asia.
Louis is currently corporate strategy and development, undertook assignments at SBIs 2013, Kurt served as the US managing partner of Boyu Capital becoming finance director two years Washington and London offices and Assistant Secretary of State for East Advisory Co, a China-focused later.
Simon was chief financial held general management roles Asian and Pacific Affairs.
He was private equity investment firm, officer of AstraZeneca PLC from between 2004 and 2006, becoming widely credited as being a key independent non-executive director 2007 until 2013, when he was managing director of SBI in 2006, architect of the pivot to Asia policy.
of Fubon Financial Holding appointed chief financial officer and culminating in his appointment as Kurt was a central figure in Company, and a Fellow and council executive director at BG Group.
chairman of the State Bank Group advancing theUS-China relationship, member of the Hong Kong Simon stepped down from BG until he stepped down in 2011.
Om building stronger ties toAsian allies, Management Association.
Group in February 2016, following its was chairman of the Indian Banks and in the opening up ofMyanmar.
Committees takeover by Royal Dutch Shell.
Association and was previously an Previously, Kurt was the chief independent non-executive director executive officer and co-founder Committees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation.
ofthe Center for aNew American Om is an independent non-executive Security and associate professor at director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, Harvards John F Kennedy School Tata Steel, Tata Consultancy ofGovernment.
Heis chairman and Services and governor of the board chief executive officer of The Asian of the Center for Creative Group LLC, a strategic advisory and Leadership.
investment group specialising in the Asia Pacific region.
Committees Committees Committees Audit Committee Board Risk Committee B rand, Values and Conduct Committee G overnance and Nomination Committee B oard Financial Crime Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair shown in green Experience International Banking Finance Risk Accounting Our Board is comprised of directors with lived and or worked across experience among independent a broad range of skills, experience, Asia, Africa, Middle East non-executive directors backgrounds and perspectives.
As at the end of December 2015, eleven directors 65% 54% on the Board have lived and or worked across our key markets of Asia, Africa or the Middle East, and over half of the independent non-executive directors have some combination of banking, finance, 72% 58% risk and accounting experience.
As at end 2015 As at end 2014 64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Dr Byron Grote 67 Gay Huey Evans, OBE 61 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 79 Liz Lloyd, CBE 44 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Appointed: July 2014 Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: January 2010 Appointed: January 2016 Experience: Byron has broad Experience: Gay has extensive Experience: Dr Han is a Experience: Liz spent her early commercial, financial and banking and financial services distinguished economist and has a career in public policy in the UK international experience.
From 1988 experience with significant strong geo-political background, with government and held a number of to 2000, Byron worked across BP in commercial and UK regulatory and valuable knowledge of Asia and its roles as special advisor in Number a variety of commercial, operational governance experience.
Dr Han is a former prime 10 Downing Street on home affairs, and executive roles.
He was chief over 30 years working within the minister of the Republic of Korea.
Africa and climate change to the executive officer of BP Chemicals financial services industry, the Hehas a distinguished political, then-UK Prime Minister, RtHon Tony and managing director of BP plc international capital markets and diplomatic and administrative career, Blair, a position she held until 2005 in2000, with regional group-level with the financial regulator.
Gay serving as deputy prime minister and when she was appointed deputy accountability for BPs activities spent seven years with the Financial minister of finance, foreign affairs, chief of staff.
Lizjoined Standard inAsia from 2001 to 2006.
Byron Services Authority from 1998 to and industry and trade before Chartered in 2007, initially within was chief financial officer of BP plc 2005, where she was director of serving as prime minister from 2008 Group Compliance, focused on from 2002 until 2011, subsequently markets division, capital markets to 2009.
He also served as Korean regulatory risk and regulatory serving as BPs executive vice sector leader, with responsibility for ambassador to the United States, relationships, before being president, corporate business establishing a market-facing division chief of staff to the president, appointed as Group Head of Public activities, from 2012 to 2013 with for the supervision of market president of the 56th Session of the Affairs, responsible for coordinating responsibility for the groups infrastructure, oversight of market United Nations General Assembly, the Groups policies and positioning integrated supply and trading conduct and developing markets special envoy of the UN Secretaryon all political and regulatory activities, alternative energy, policy.
From 2005 to 2008, Gay held General on Climate Change, and matters.
In 2013, she was appointed shipping and technology.
Byron was a number of roles at Citi, including chairman of the 2009 Organisation Chief Executive Officer of Standard a non-executive director at Unilever head of governance, Citi Alternative for Economic Cooperation and Chartered Bank Tanzania, a position plc and Unilever NV until he stepped Investments, EMEA, before joining Development Ministerial Council she held until October 2015. down in April 2015.
He is currently Barclays Capital where she was Meeting.
Dr Han sits on a number of Shewas elected vice-chair of the anon-executive director of Anglo vicechair of investment banking and advisory boards and is currently the Tanzania Bankers Association in American plc, Tesco PLC and sits investment management.
She was United Nations Secretary-Generals 2015.
She received a CBE in 2008. on the supervisory board at Akzo previously a non-executive director Special Envoy for Disaster Risk Nobel NV.
He is also a member at Aviva plc and the London Stock Reduction and Water, the founding ofthe European Audit Committee Exchange Group plc.
Gay is chair of the UN High-Level Experts Leadership Network and an currently a non-executive director Panel on Water and Disaster, is the emeritus member of the Cornell ofConocoPhillips and Bank Itau co-chair of the WaterAdvisory Johnson School Advisory Council BBA International plc, and is Group at the Asian Development atCornell University.
deputychair of the Financial Bank and co-chair ofthe Reporting Council.
She received International Finance Forum.
Committees anOBE for services to financial Inaddition, he is a non-executive services and diversity in 2016. director at Seoul Semiconductor Inc and Doosan Infracore Co Ltd, and 1 Committees isa director on the Yonsei University 1.
Gay will join the Board Financial Crime Committees Foundation Board of Trustees.
Risk Committee on 1 March 2016 Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Committees B rand, Values and Conduct Committee G overnance and Nomination Committee B oard Financial Crime Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair shown in green Non-executive director tenures As we continue to evolve and refresh 0-1 year 27.3% thecomposition of the Board, we remain mindful of the need to ensure that the tenure of our non-executive directors is well balanced.
1-3 years 36.4% Further details on the work ofthe Governance and 3-6 years 27.3% Nomination Committee can befound on page 93.
