Directors report Corporate governance Supports decisions and guides behaviours across the Group Governance assurances and disclosures To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 of the Large and Throughout this report we have set out the required governance Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports and regulatory assurances and disclosures.
As in previous Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages years, we have sought to give an insight and a genuine 142to 150. understanding of the importance good governance plays across the Group, as well as demonstrate how it supports The role of the Board and committees decisions and guides behaviours within Standard Chartered.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and for ensuring leadership within a framework of Code compliance effective controls.
The Board sets the strategic direction of the Group, approves the strategy and takes the appropriate action We apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance to ensure that the Group is suitably resourced to achieve its Code 2014 the Code.
The directors confirm that the strategic aspirations.
The Board considers both the impact of its Group has complied with all the provisions set out in the decisions and its responsibilities to all the Groups stakeholders, Code during the year ended 31 December 2015, subject to including the Groups employees, shareholders, regulators, Peter Sands not seeking re-election at the 2015 Annual suppliers, the environment and the communities in which General Meeting AGM.
This was a conscious decision itoperates.
following the announcement, made prior to the AGM, that Peter would step down from the Board on 10 June 2015, The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees shortly after theAGM.
to assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring independent oversight.
The Board also delegates authority for the operational We have complied with the code provisions of the Hong management of the Groups business to the Group Chief Kong Corporate Governance Code Appendix 14 of the Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters Hong Kong Listing Rules, save that the Board Risk which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and Committee, instead of the Audit Committee, is responsible management of the business.
for the oversight of internal control other than internal control over financial reporting and risk management systems Code Details of the Groups Management Team can be found on provision C. 3.3 f, g and h of Appendix 14.
The Groups pages 10 to 12. governance structure of a separate Audit Committee and With the exception of the Governance and Nomination Board Risk Committee complies with recent amendments to Committee, which in keeping with the provisions of the Code, the above provisions which apply to the Groups accounting ischaired by the Group Chairman, all the Board committees period from 1 January 2016. aremade up of independent non-executive directors and play Throughout this corporate governance report we have an important role in supporting the Board.
In addition to provided a narrative statement of how governance operates 1 comprising four independent non-executive directors, the within the Group and our application of the principles set out Board Financial Crime Risk Committees membership includes in the Hong Kong Listing Rules and the main principles of four independent external advisor members.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision The Group confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct along with written terms ofreference for the Boards committees can be viewed atsc.
com regarding directors securities transactions on terms no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Having made specific enquiry of all directors, the Group confirms that all directors have complied with therequired standards of the adopted code of conduct.
Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance 1.
The number of independent non-executive directors will revert to five following Gay Code can be found at frc.
hk respectively Huey Evans appointment to the Committee on 1 March 2016 Standard Chartered PLC Board Audit Board Risk Brand, Values Remuneration Governance and Board Financial Committee Committee and Conduct Committee Nomination Crime Risk Oversight and Oversight and Committee Oversight and Committee Committee review of financial, review of Oversight of the review of Oversight and Oversight and audit and internal fundamental positioning of the remuneration, review of Board review of all control issues.
risks including Groups brand, share plans and and executive financial crime More details on credit, market, conduct, culture other incentives.
page 79. capital, liquidity, and values, More details on overall Board More details on operational, reputational risk, page 99. effectiveness and pages 96. country crossgovernment and governance issues.
border and regulatory relations, More details on pension risks.
More page 85. details on page 89.
67 Corporate governance Strategic Review process and timeline Board roles and key responsibilities Chairman March May 2015 Sir John Peace Bill Winters visited a number of our markets, meeting with Responsible for leading the Board and its overall many of our shareholders, clients, employees and other effectiveness and governance, promoting high standards stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of theGroup ofintegrity across the Group and ensuring effective and the challenges and opportunities that exist.
communication between the Board, management, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Group Chief Executive Mid-June 2015 Bill Winters Responsible for the management of all aspects of the Bill was appointed as Group Chief Executive and announced Groups businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction a review of the Groups organisation, structure and strategy.
with the Chairman and the Board, and leading its This review commenced with a two-day strategy off-site implementation.
session in June 2015, at which a number of building blocks Senior Independent Director for the forward-looking strategy were considered and Naguib Kheraj agreed.
Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and discusses These formed the body of work for the Strategic Review concerns that are unable to be resolved through the normal ofthe Group, and set the strategic direction for the Group.
channels or where such contact would be inappropriate with Some of these building blocks included: shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chairs the Governance and Nomination Committee when considering succession A thorough review and understanding of the competitive ofthe Chairman.
environment of the Group and the dynamics at play Independent non-executive directors A deep understanding of our clients needs and See pages 63 to 65 behaviours, our product and service capabilities, and Provide an independent perspective, constructive challenge required changes and monitor the performance and delivery of the strategy A detailed review of our geographic footprint and within the risk and controls set by the Board.
necessary actions The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are quite The development of the Groups digital agenda distinct from one another and are clearly defined in detailed role descriptions which can be viewed at sc.
A comprehensive review of the Groups organisational structure, and itsprocesses and controls Board meetings A review of our capital position and requirements, and our In 2015, the Board held nine scheduled and three ad hoc cost and investment priorities meetings, including two meetings outside the UK: in Washington, DC and Dwelhi.
To enable the Board to use its time most effectively, it maintains a scheduled forward programme Mid-July 2015 ofmeetings and a rolling agenda.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for specific items to be added to any particular Announced a simplification of the Groups organisational agenda to ensure that the Board can focus on the key matters structure and the appointment of the new Management at the appropriate time.
The Board also schedules a number Team, who will execute the new strategy.
ofinformal sessions and interactions, which allows Board members to discuss specific areas of the business or external environment with members of the Management Team and or September 2015 external advisors.
Generally, members of the Management The new Management Teams responsibilities included Team and other senior executives are invited to attend part formulating a plan to address the future performance of the ofthe meetings to ensure effective interaction with the Board.
The building blocks of the new During the year, the Chairman met privately with the Senior strategy were presented to the Board by the Management Independent Director and the independent non-executive Team, and discussed at length, leading to further refinement.
directors on several occasions to assess their views and discuss matters arising.
Performance against delivery of the agreed key financial October to November 2015 priorities is reviewed at every meeting with particular reference to the detailed Group management accounts.
The Group Chief The plans were developed through the work of the Strategic Executive, Deputy Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Review and the new strategy came back to the Board for Financial Officer comment on the market and current trading discussion on a number of occasions through the Autumn.
ateach meeting, and present comparative data and customer The outcome of the Strategic Review, which included raising insight.
In addition, the Group Chief Risk Officer periodically additional capital through the rights issue was announced on attends meetings to update the Board on risk management.
Further details on the new strategy can be found in Our business: our strategy and business model During the year, the Board spent significant time and focus on page 13. conducting an in-depth review of the Groups strategy.
Anoverview of the process taken is set out on this page.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report In addition, throughout 2015, the Boards programme included the following items, some of which were considered at each meeting and some reviewed periodically throughout theyear.
Board activities 2015 Strategy See page 68 for an outline of the Boards Strategic Review Budget and Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and operational performance of the business across client segments, product performance groups and geographies oversight Monitored and assessed the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity positions Considered, on a regular basis, the management actions taken around risk-weighted assets, costs reductions and business disposals, aimed at strengthening the Groups Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Took the decision to re-base the 2015 interim dividend and recommended no final dividend be paid for 2015 Discussed the 2016 budget, reflecting the first year of the five-year strategy, including assessment against risk tolerance thresholds Discussed periodic updates from Investor Relations on the share price, performance metrics, register activity, andinvestor and analyst sentiment External Received internal and external briefings and input across a range of topics, including the geo-political and regulatory environment environment, and the macroeconomic landscape Considered the Groups response and crisis management actions in response to a number of incidents in our markets, including the Nepal earthquake: the terrorist bombing in Bangkok: and the series of explosions at a container storage station in Tianjin Shareholder and Engaged with investors throughout the year and responded to retail shareholders questions at the Annual General stakeholder Meeting relationships Held a series of events and meetings in New York and Washington, DC to strengthen relationships with US policy-makers, regulators and authorities Engaged with key clients and customers as part of the Boards overseas visits, including participation in a number ofcommunity activities and projects Provided input into the decision to extend the Groups sponsorship of Liverpool Football Club Engaged with the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, one of the Groups UKs lead regulators on the findings ofthe 2015 Periodic Summary Meeting letter Discussed the views and concerns of institutional shareholders Risk and Received regular risk reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer governance Evaluated and approved updates to the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement and the operational and financial top risks Discussed specific conduct matters and potential outcomes and impacts Reviewed and discussed the 2015 Bank of England stress test submission and results Reviewed and approved the Groups approach to demonstrating individual accountability under the UK Banking Reform Act Reviewed and approved the compliance programme established to meet the requirements of the US Volcker Rule People, culture Considered the composition of the Board and its committees in the context of our Board succession plan, and, and values onthe recommendation of the Governance and Nomination Committee, approved the appointment of Naguib Kheraj as the new Senior Independent Director and David Conner as an independent non-executive director Reviewed the Groups new Management Team and organisational structure, noting its impact on people across theorganisation Approved the appointment of the new Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group CompanySecretary Received updates on the Chairmans succession plan Discussed the importance of a robust conduct culture throughout the Group, including an overview of the Groups Conduct Programme Assessed the outcome of the 2015 Board effectiveness review and approved the 2016 Action Plan Endorsed the refresh of the Groups Code of Conduct, to which every employee was requested to recommit The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board, together with the Board committees terms of reference, can be viewed atsc.
com 69 Corporate governance Board composition and attendance Brand, Board Governance Values and Financial Audit Board Remuneration and Nomination Conduct Crime Risk Board Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total Name of director Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Scheduled attendance Chairman 1 Sir John Peace 9 9 3 3 4 4 3 3 100% Group Chief Executive W T Winters 5 5 2 2 100% appointed 10 June 2015 Executive Directors A M G Rees 9 9 3 3 100% A N Halford 9 9 3 3 100% Independent Non-Executive Directors O P Bhatt 9 9 3 3 6 6 1 1 100% 2 Dr K M Campbell 7 9 3 3 4 5 82% 3 Dr L Cheung 9 9 2 3 5 5 3 3 95% D P Conner N A N A N A N A N A N A N A appointed 1 January 2016 Dr B E Grote 9 9 3 3 6 6 3 3 N A 3 3 100% 4 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 9 9 1 3 5 5 88% 5 C M Hodgson 8 9 2 3 6 6 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 1 5 5 4 4 95% G Huey Evans, OBE 6 6 2 2 4 4 N A 100% appointed 1 April 2015 6 N Kheraj 9 9 3 3 6 6 6 6 1 1 1 1 N A 4 4 1 3 4 4 95% 7 S J Lowth 6 9 2 3 4 4 75% J M Whitbread 6 6 2 2 3 3 N A 2 2 100% appointed 1 April 2015 Directors who stepped down in2015 2016 J S Bindra 3 3 1 1 100% stepped down 30 April 2015 R Markland 9 9 3 3 2 2 5 5 3 3 1 1 2 2 4 4 100% stepped down 31December 2015 8 P D Skinner, CBE 8 9 2 3 6 6 1 1 5 5 3 3 4 4 3 3 5 5 95% stepped down 31 December 2015 P A Sands 4 4 1 1 100% stepped down 10 June 2015 V Shankar 3 3 1 1 100% stepped down 30 April 2015 O H J Stocken, CBE 2 2 1 1 2 2 N A 100% stepped down 28 February 2015 9 Dr L H Thunell 8 9 3 3 6 6 6 6 1 1 3 4 3 3 1 4 86% stepped down 31 January 2016 1.
Sir John did not chair any meetings of the Governance and Nomination Committee when considering matters relating to Chairmans succession 2.
Dr Kurt Campbell was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting due to a prior commitment and one scheduled Board and Brand, Values and Conduct Committee meeting for medical reasons 3.
Dr Louis Cheung was unable to attend one ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to another business commitment 4.
Dr Han was unable to attend two ad hoc Board meetings, arranged at short notice, due to the time of one meeting and the other due to a prior commitment 5.
Christine Hodgson was unable to attend one ad hoc meeting, arranged at short notice, due to a prior commitment and one scheduled Board meeting because of a delayed flight 6.
Naguib Kheraj was recused from two ad hoc Governance and Nomination Committee meetings due to a potential conflict 7.
Simon Lowth was unable to attend three scheduled Board meetings and one ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to other business commitments 8.
Paul Skinner was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting and one ad hoc Board meeting, arranged at short notice, due to other business commitments 9.
Dr Lars Thunell was unable to attend one scheduled Board meeting, one scheduled Governance and Nomination Committee meeting and three scheduled meetings of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee due to prior commitments In 2015, the Group held one general meeting, our Annual General Meeting, on 6 May 2015, which was attended by all of the directors.
All directors, with the exception ofPeter Sands ashighlighted on page 67 were proposed for annual re election in 2015 and all who stood for re election were successfully re elected 70 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Independence of directors the Board in April 2015.
Both Gay and Jasmine have received detailed and tailored inductions during 2015.
More details on When determining whether a non-executive director is director inductions can be found on page 72. independent, the Board considers each individual against thecriteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Jaspal Bindra and V Shankar, both Group Executive Directors, theCode and also considers how they conduct themselves stepped down from the Board on 30 April 2015.
Bill Winters inBoard meetings, including how they exercise judgement succeeded Peter Sands asGroup Chief Executive on 10 June andindependent thinking.
In line with the Code, Dr Han and 2015, having joined the Group in May 2015.
In addition, on Simon Lowths re-appointment were subject to particular review 7 January 2016 we announced that Mike Rees, Deputy Group and scrutiny, given they will have both served beyond six years Chief Executive, will step down from the Board on 30 April 2016 in 2016.
The Board is satisfied that all of its non-executive and retire on 31 December 2016, after 26 years with the Group.
directors bring robust independent oversight and continue On 21 December 2015, we announced that Dr Lars Thunell todemonstrate independence.
would step down from the Board on 31 January 2016.
Lars had been an independent non-executive director since November Board composition 2012 and was the Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
David The Boards composition, structure and size underwent further Conner joined the Board as an independent non-executive significant change during 2015 and into 2016.
The changes will director on 1 January 2016 and was appointed Chair of the result in a smaller Board of 14 directors at the end of April 2016, Board Risk Committee on 1 February 2016.
David brings consisting of the Chairman, two executive directors and 11 significant global banking experience, strong risk management independent non-executive directors.
This ongoing change in credentials, and an in-depth understanding and knowledge the Boards composition ensures we maintain a combination of ofthe Asian markets.
broad-based banking, finance, risk and accounting skills and In 2015, we announced that Sir John Peace intends to step experience, representation from across our key markets, and down from the Board during the course of 2016, having led adiversity of perspective.
Details on the diverse composition of theBoard as Chairman since 2009.
Until then, Sir John will the Board and biographical details of the directors are set out continue to focus on the strategic transformation, providing on pages 62 to65, including details of the membership of the support to Bill and the Management Team and continuity at Boards Committees.
The process to identify anew Some of the changes which took effect through 2015 were Chairman is underway.
The Governance and Nomination highlighted in last years report, including the retirement of three Committee has oversight and Naguib Kheraj, who succeeded long-standing independent non-executive directors, Oliver Ruth Markland asSenior Independent Director on 16 June Stocken, who stepped down in February 2015, Ruth Markland 2015, chairs the Committee when considering matters and Paul Skinner, who stepped down on 31 December 2015, concerning the Chairmans succession.
More details on the and the appointment of two new independent non-executive Chairmans succession can be found in the Governance and directors, Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread, who joined Nomination Committee report on page 93.
Independent non-executive director, Board Financial Crime Risk Committee external advisor members and Chairmans visits to our markets in 2015 Destination Visits Europe and Americas Greater China and North Asia Beijing 2 Brussels 1 Chennai 1 Davos 1 Delhi 11 Dubai 2 Frankfurt 1 Freetown 1 Hong Kong 3 Johannesburg 1 Kuala Lumpur 1 Lima 1 Los Angeles 1 Africa and Middle East ASEAN and South Asia Mumbai 1 Newark 2 New York 10 San Francisco 1 Shanghai 2 Singapore 5 Washington, DC 11 71 Corporate governance The Board strongly believes in the importance of an open and Director induction challenging, yet cohesive and collaborative, culture.
This culture Each newly appointed Board director receives an extensive, of transparency ensures that independent non-executive formal and tailored induction programme to enable them to directors have unfettered access to management and function effectively as quickly as possible, while building a deep information, and enables us to maintain a high level of understanding of the business and our markets.
Each induction governance across the Group.
The exposure our independent typically consists of a combination of: meetings with both non-executive directors have to the Group in general is executive and independent non-executive directors as well as demonstrated in part through the visits that they make the Group Company Secretary: briefings from senior managers throughout our markets, both to gain an on-the-ground across the Group: the opportunity to attend key management understanding of the opportunities and risks weface and to meetings and to meet with major investors and clients: validate the new strategy.
In addition, the overseas Board andvisits to key markets across our footprint.
The induction meeting programmes also provide a significant opportunity for programmes are typically completed within the first six to nine the Board to meet with senior management, clients andour months of a directors appointment.
They are regularly reviewed employees throughout our network.
During 2015, the Chairman, and take into account directors feedback to ensure they are our independent non-executive directors and the external continually improved.
In line with this tailored approach, the advisor members to the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee three new directors who joined the Board during the year: made 59 visits across our footprint, which included two BillWinters, Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread, each overseas Board meetings.
In addition, there is an open invitation received comprehensive inductions.
Bill Winters spent several for the chairs of our subsidiary companies to meet with the weeks prior to joining the Board meeting and listening to Board in the UK.
shareholders, clients and other stakeholders views to get an in-depth understanding of how thebusiness is perceived.
He External directorships and other business interests also travelled extensively around our markets, visiting branches We support Board members taking external directorships and offices and meeting as many people as possible to gain a andother outside business interests and recognise the benefits greater understanding of the Groups strengths, the challenges that greater boardroom exposure gives our directors.
However, it is facing as well as an insight into the culture and values of we closely monitor the number of directorships our directors theorganisation.
take on to satisfy ourselves that all of our Board members are Jasmine and Gays induction programmes each consisted of compliant with the PRA requirements.
These impose a limit on over 50 meetings with a range of individuals including executive the number of directorships both executive and independent and independent non-executive directors, committee chairs, non-executive directors are permitted to hold.
Details of the senior leaders and management groups from across the Group.
directors external directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 62 to 65.
Before committing to an additional appointment, directors confirm the existence of any potential or actual conflicts: that the role will not breach their limit as set out in the PRA rules: and provide the necessary assurance that the appointment willnot adversely impact their ability to continue to fulfil their role as a director of the Group.
In addition, the Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Of our executive directors, Andy Halford is a non-executive director ofMarks and Spencer Group plc.
Bill Winters is a non-executive director of Novartis International AG, listed on theSwiss stock exchange.
Time commitment We expect our independent non-executive directors to commit sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities.
In general, we estimate that each independent non-executive director spent approximately 35 to 50 days on Board-related duties, and considerably more for those who chair or are members of multiple committees.
This years strategy discussions and additional Board meetings demonstrated the independent non-executive directors ability to provide additional time commitment, at short notice, when required.
72 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Jasmine Whitbreads induction programme Mindful of Jasmines experience and knowledge of operating sources of income: geographic diversity: client distribution, internationally, she met with management and staff ina number andtraditional and modern banking services.
of our markets to get a deeper understanding of the business in To illustrate the breadth and depth of the process, and the country.
In addition, she also received a series of detailed tailored nature of the programme, an outline of Jasmines introductory briefings to banking, which included sessions on: induction programme is set out below.
Independent non-executive director: Overseas visits Overseas visits Induction programme as part of the overseas Board independent and onward visits One-to-one meetings with the Chairman, Singapore Sierra Leone Group Company Secretary, and executive Meeting with Regional Chief Executive Meeting with the Chief Executive of and independent non-executive directors Officer ASEAN and South Asia: Group Standard Chartered Bank in Freetown Head, Brand & Chief Marketing Officer: Briefing from external legal advisors: South Africa Singapore Chief Executive Officer: directors duties, responsibilities and Meeting with Regional Head, Corporate ChiefInformation Officer, Corporate & obligations Finance, Africa in Johannesburg Institutional Banking: Regional Head Meeting with the Groups statutory auditors General Counsel & Legal, ASEAN: Head Meeting with Regional Head, HR, Africa ofCompliance Singapore: Group Head inJohannesburg Meeting with Group Head, Commercial & Strategy: Regional Chief Risk Officer, Private Banking Clients: Group Chief Risk New York ASEAN: Country Management Team, Officer: Group General Counsel: Global Tour of Standard Chartered Bank offices Singapore Head, Regulatory Affairs: Global Head including overview of the dollar-clearing ofTax: Group Head of Internal Audit: Attended meetings with key clients business GroupChief Operating Officer: Group Meeting with new Management Team Meetings with Head of Governance, North Head, Corporate Affairs: Group Head of members America: Chief Financial Officer, Americas: Technology: Group Treasurer: Head of Chief Risk Officer, Americas: Regional Investor Relations: Chief Executive Officer Hong Kong Credit Officer, Americas UK Europe: Global Head, Markets, Wealth Meeting with Chief Executive Officer, & Securities, Group Technology HongKong: Regional Chief Financial Briefing on regulatory compliance &Operations Officer, Greater China & North Asia: landscape and regulatory reform ChiefFinancial Officer, Hong Kong: Meeting with Group Company Secretary Briefing on the Supervisory Remediation Regional General Counsel: Interim onthe Groups governance structure Programme, Financial Crime Compliance Regional Head Compliance, Greater andpolicies andAudit China & North Asia: Regional HR Greater Briefing on the Groups commitment China & North Asia and Head of HR Meeting on the Groups People Agenda toProject Everyone and the Sustainable HongKong: Chief Risk Officer with Regional Head of HR, Americas Development Goals andRegional Head of Corporate Affairs, Meeting with Greater China & North Asia Brand & Marketing, Americas Briefing on the macroeconomic Regional Chief Executive Officer environment Peru International Monetary Fund and Dealing room visit World Bank Annual Meeting Introduction to Banking Briefings on Hong Kong business Received a presentation from the Chief Briefings on: the global banking system: overview: Private Banking: and Financial Economist Global macroeconomic financial statements focus forbanks: Markets overview capital Meeting with Hong Kong Executive Met with Standard Chartered Bank Meetings with the Regulator Committee management and with the Global Head of Prudential Regulatory Authority continuous Public Sector Development Organisation Meeting with Womens Internal Network, assessment meeting Hong Kong Attended conference on securing Meeting with the Financial Conduct sustainable growth Authority one of the UKs lead regulators Networking with clients and partners and Committee induction attending client meetings Prior to appointment, attended a Brand, Values and Conduct Committee meeting asan observer Attended a Board Risk Committee meeting as an observer Chair handover meeting with the outgoing Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Briefings with management on: brand: reputational risk: conduct, sustainability: community programmes: culture, values and conduct: and government and regulatory relationships 73 Corporate governance Ongoing development plans landscape and on the Senior Managers Regime SMR.
The table below gives further detail on who received these briefings.
Sustaining an effective, well-informed and functional Board requires notonly a robust induction process but also a The directors are supported by the Group Company Secretary well-managed process ofongoing engagement, training and the Group Corporate Secretariat team.
During the year, alldirectors received a access to independent professional advice at the Groups combination of training, briefings, presentations and papers expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their ona range of topics to ensure that each directors contribution responsibilities as directors.
The delivery of Board and to the Board remained well-informed and relevant.
This training Committee papers and other material to directors through iPads took the form of refresher training on statutory duties: an update is now well-embedded and provides the Board with a much on regulatory and governance responsibilities and obligations: more flexible and efficient method of accessing information.
briefings on live and emerging trends in the macroeconomic Directors induction and ongoing development in 2015 Visits to our Emerging Directors markets and trends: duties and meetings macroSenior Induction regulatory with local economic Managers 1 training updates management landscape Regime Sir John Peace N A W T Winters appointed 10 June 2015 O P Bhatt N A J S Bindra stepped down 30 April 2015 N A N A N A Dr K M Campbell N A Dr L Cheung N A D P Conner appointed 1 January 2016 N A N A N A N A N A Dr B E Grote N A A N Halford N A C M Hodgson N A G Huey Evans, OBE appointed 1 April 2015 N Kheraj N A S J Lowth N A R Markland stepped down 31 December 2015 N A N A A M G Rees N A Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE N A P A Sands stepped down 10 June 2015 N A N A N A V Shankar stepped down 30 April 2015 N A N A N A P D Skinner, CBE stepped down 31 December 2015 N A N A Dr L H Thunell stepped down 31 January 2016 N A N A O H J Stocken, CBE stepped down 28 February 2015 N A N A N A N A J M Whitbread appointed 1 April 2015 1.
Applicable to new directors appointed during 2015 These briefings took the form of a combination of presentations, Board dinners, discussions and the circulation of papers 74 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Board effectiveness review an internally facilitated effectiveness review.
These reviews, facilitated by Group Corporate Secretariat, requested Against a background of the business reorganisation, the committee members as well as permanent attendees of the continued transition of the Board and its committees and last Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration, Brand, Values and Conduct, years externally facilitated Board effectiveness review, it was and Board Financial Crime Risk Committees to provide their considered that the 2015 review would be most effectively input and thoughts on their committees effectiveness.
conducted internally, with a particular focus on evaluating the interplay between management and the Board.
The feedback was formally discussed by each of the committees, and overall they were considered to be effective, Committee effectiveness challenging and well-managed.
An action plan has been designed to address the key observations identified.
The effectiveness of each of the Board committees is also reviewed annually.
In 2015, each of the committees conducted The 2015 Board effectiveness review process Individual conversations Key observations, themes Board and Governance and 2016 agreed with the Chairman and feedback evaluated Nomination Committee action plan discussion Each Board member met with The Chairman reviewed the The Board and the Governance The Action Plan for 2016 the Chairman during the spring range of feedback provided on and Nomination Committee includes: summer of 2015 to provide their the Boards performance and discussed all of the findings of feedback and key observations identified some broad themes the review following which an Review the format, frequency on the Boards effectiveness forconsideration by the Board, action plan was developed and and length of Board and and to provide their suggestions including: agreed for 2016. committee meetings to and opportunities for further ensure that the time directors Board and committee The Board was mindful that the enhancement.
In providing their spend together is maximised linkages and information Senior Managers Regime SMR feedback, directors took three flows would impact the roles, remit Ensure the continuation of factors into account: and ways of working of the theoverseas Board meetings Committee streamlining Identifying opportunities to Board and its committees.
across the Groups markets andsimplification, including simplify and streamline the Asubsequent briefing was and consider the inclusion of composition, remit and Board and its committees heldfor the independent committee meetings frequency of meetings non-executive directors on SMR Ensuring the most effective Review the composition and Board and committee in the autumn of 2015. use of the independent clarify the role of each Board meeting logistics, including non-executive directors, and committee and simplify the the location of meetings the senior executives, time linkages between the committees and the Board Ensuring the effectiveness of asa whole the Board and its committees is maintained enhanced Consider the remits and coverage of the Board committees taking account of emerging risks as they arise Directors performance The current and future committee membership and structure During the spring summer of 2015, the Chairman held The Boards composition, taking into account when each discussions witheach of the directors to review and assess independent non-executive director envisaged stepping down their individual performance.
This is used as the basis for from the Board recommending the re-election of directors by shareholders.
Chairmans performance For each of the independent non-executive directors, discussion included consideration of: The Senior Independent Director met with the independent non-executive directors, without the Chairman present, Their time commitment, including where relevant the toreview the Chairmans performance.
potential impact of any outside interests 75 Corporate governance Investor engagement The Board understands the importance of regular, transparent shareholders and stakeholders, and Board members openly and open engagement with investors throughout the year.
The seek the views of our shareholders, both directly and through Board receives regular updates on the views of the Groups key the Groups Investor Relations team.
Key investor engagement in 2015 March 2015 April 2015 May 2015 August 2015 November 2015 Full year results and Q1 Interim Annual General Half year results Q3 Interim Management annual report Management Meeting Statement, Strategic Statement Review, rights issue We have continued to focus on enhancing our engagement Institutional shareholders programme withour shareholders and wider stakeholders, including investor voting bodies and credit rating agencies, to explain The Investor Relations team has primary responsibility for ourperformance and set out our plans to refocus the Group.
managing day-to-day communications with our institutional investors.
The team supports the Chairman, Group Chief A key feature of our engagement was the announcement of the Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, other Board results of our Strategic Review and a $5 billion fully underwritten members, and senior management in conducting a two for seven rights issue in November 2015.
This was a comprehensive shareholder programme spread across the London-based event hosted by Bill Winters and Andy Halford, year.
An insight into the level of engagement undertaken and was attended by shareholders and equity analysts during 2015 is set out below: alongside a live audio webcast.
The review set out a Formal presentation of full year and half year results to comprehensive programme of actions to move the Group ourinstitutional shareholders and analysts, followed by towards a more profitable and less capital-intensive business.
post-results investor roadshows in major investor centres The rights issue positions the Group to accelerate execution across Europe, the US and Asia ofthe new strategy.
The event was followed by a series of roadshows and meetings with key investors from across See investors.
com for further information Europe, the US and Asia, again hosted by Bill and Andy as well as other senior regional business management.
The rights issue Interim Management Statement issued for the three closed in December with 96.8 per cent of our shareholders months ending 31 March 2015 and nine months ending exercising their rights.
We are very pleased with the success 30 September 2015, followed by a call with investors ofour rights issue and would like to thank our shareholders andanalysts fortheir support.
Industry conferences in London and Hong Kong attended A copy of the presentation can be viewed at investors.
com byexecutive directors and senior regional business management The Chairman, independent non-executive directors and Extensive engagement on governance matters with our management undertook in the region of 450 investor meetings key shareholders and voting advisory bodies, undertaken during 2015.
On joining the Group, Bill spent a significant by the Chairman, Group Company Secretary and senior amount of time engaging with our key investors to understand management throughout the year.
These meetings offered their views on the Group.
In addition, both Bill and Andy the opportunity to discuss changes to the Board and together engaged extensively with our institutional shareholders senior appointments across the Group and key target investors and each undertook in the region of The Chairman hosted a governance dinner in London in 100 investor meetings.
April 2015 attended by seven key investors.
The dinner has become a regular feature of our market communication, The geographic mix of our shareholders has shifted towards providing an open forum for debate on topical governance theUS from the UK, as illustrated in the graph below: issues and, more broadly, in deepening our relationship Geographic shareholder movement % of share register with our top shareholders In December 2015, Christine Hodgson, Chair of the 45 Remuneration Committee led a consultation to shape 18% 40 arevised incentive structure.
This included engagement 35 withshareholders representing over half of our register onproposals to simplify and align our executive director 30 39% remuneration and incentives to the new strategy, 25 announced in November 2015, and to ensure ongoing 20 regulatory compliance.
More details can be found in the 15 Directors remuneration report on page 99.
Wewill be 10 seeking shareholder approval for our executive 5 remuneration policy at the 2016 Annual General Meeting 0 Various investor meetings were hosted by a combination of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 our directors and other senior management, including the UK US Europe RoW Group Treasurer, and regional and business management excl UK 76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report subsidiary independent non-executive directors, in order that Retail shareholders programme they remain well-informed and well-equipped to make decisions that are aligned to the Groups interests as well as to their local The Group Company Secretary oversees communication shareholders interests.
The Annual General Meeting, held on 6 May 2015, provided an opportunity for the Board Board committees to meet with our retail shareholders, listen to their views and respond to their questions.
In addition, during the year, we The membership of the committees has evolved during the met with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
year, to ensure that they continue to have the right skills and The results of the voting at the 2015 AGM can be viewed expertise to support the work of the Board.
Full details of the atinvestors.
com committee composition changes made during the year can be found within each of the committee reports on pages 79 to 141.
Debt investor programme The Chairs of a number of committees also changed during theyear.
Christine Hodgson succeeded Ruth Markland as Group Treasury manage the Groups relationships with debt Remuneration Committee Chair, following the 2015 AGM.
investors and the three major rating agencies.
Country chief Ruthremained on the Committee until she stepped down from executives and chief financial officers lead on management the Board at the end of 2015, providing a well-managed and of subsidiary ratings.
In 2015, management met with debt smooth handover.
Jasmine Whitbread was appointed Chair of investors across Europe, the US and Asia and maintained the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee on 1 January 2016 adialogue with the rating agencies.
The Group is an active succeeding Paul Skinner, who stepped down from the Board issuer of senior unsecured and non-equity capital and it is atthe end of 2015, following a detailed handover.
David Conner therefore important to maintain regular contact with debt was appointed a member of the Board Risk Committee on investors to ensure continued appetite for the Groups credit.
1 January 2016 before succeeding Lars Thunell as Chair on The Groups credit ratings are important to the external 1 February 2016.
Lars and David ensured a well-managed perception of the Groups financial strength and handover ahead of Lars stepping down from the Board on creditworthiness.
Further information can be found at investors.
com The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee was established inJanuary 2015.
In its first year, the Committee has been very active, particularly in overseeing the Groups progress in Subsidiary governance philosophy and linkages achieving enhanced standards relating to the management of financial crime compliance and has provided valuable oversight We have a Group structure operated through both subsidiaries in connection with the Groups financial crime compliance and branches, and maintain a consistent approach to overall controls and procedures.
An insight into this committees focus governance, while respecting local governance requirements.
during its first year, as well as details on the four external advisor During the year under review, governance was managed across members who provide essential input can be found on page 96. the Groups eight geographic regions through the respective Regional Chief Executive Officer offices, business and The Board places significant reliance on its committees by 1 functions.
As part of the business reorganisation, the number delegating a broad range of responsibilities and issues to them.
of regions has been reduced to four.
In addition, Group As such, it remains critical that effective linkages are in place Corporate Secretariat operates as a global function with between the committees and the Board as a whole, not least consistent policies and standards.
Management of geographic because it is impractical for all independent non-executive governance is structured to cover economic and political directors to be members of all of the committees.
An holistic developments, financial performance, governance and risks, approach has been taken with the committees to ensure franchise development, conduct and people.
thateffective mechanisms exist to enhance these linkages, including ensuring that there are no gaps or unnecessary As at 31 December 2015, the Group had 27 banking duplications between the remit of each committees, overlapping subsidiaries and 68 independent non-executive directors membership between Board committees and facilitating regular excluding our PLC Board independent non-executive directors.
interaction between the committee chairs.
As the independent non-executive directors on our Board travel across the Groups footprint, they play a critical role in actively engaging with the banking subsidiary independent nonexecutive directors.
In 2015, Sir John Peace and Naguib Kheraj hosted calls with the subsidiary independent non-executive directors.
Sir John focused on the strategic priorities and direction of the Group, performance, senior management changes and PLC Board succession.
Naguib provided context on the work of the Audit Committee and the key areas for focus for the coming year.
We continue to maximise our online forum for the subsidiary independent non-executive directors so that we can share Group information and key messages on a timely basis.
We continually look at ways to improve our model for engaging the 1.
The reorganisation of our business was implemented on 1 October 2015, and will be reflected in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 77 Corporate governance Alongside common committee membership, the Board receives oversight of the way credit, capital, market, liquidity, operational, the minutes or a written summary of each of the committees country cross-border and pension risk is managed, and the meetings with the exception of the Governance and Nomination Audit Committee oversees the management of financial and Committee.
During 2015, the membership of many of the internal controls.
The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee committees has changed, incorporating fresh perspectives oversees risk in the context of financial crime compliance.
from newly appointed Board members balanced against the The roles of each of the Board committees are described in need to maintain stability.
The Board Risk Committee maintains Group-wide oversight As part of each directors tailored ongoing development, our ofall risk types.
Alongside this, each of the Board committees independent non-executive directors are encouraged to attend takes primary responsibility for relevant risk types.
For instance, meetings of committees of which they are not members, as the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee has primary another way for them to gain greater insight and understanding oversight of the approach by which reputational risk is into the work undertaken and matters discussed by all of managed.
The Remuneration Committee oversees risk arising thecommittees.
The Board Risk Committee has primary Committee membership linkages Board Financial Governance and Remuneration Brand, Values and Board Risk Crime Risk Committee Nomination Committee Committee Conduct Committee Committee Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Remuneration Committee Governance and Nomination Committee Committee linkages as at 23 February 2016 78 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Corporate governance Audit Committee Naguib Kheraj Chair of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder As Committee Chair, I was involved in the selection and appointment of the Groups new Group Head of Internal Through its work in 2015, the Committee has provided Auditfollowing her predecessors appointment to another oversight on behalf of, and assurance to, the Board rolewithin the Group.
withregard to the quality and effectiveness of financialreporting on regulatory, compliance During the course of the year, there have been changes to the andinternal audit matters.
Ruth Markland and Lars Thunell stepped down from the Committee on 6 May 2015 and In addition to the disclosure requirements relating to audit 31 January 2016 respectively.
I would like to thank Ruth and committees under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, Lars for their valuable contributions to the Committee.
the Committees report sets out the areas of significant andparticular focus for the Committee over the course of David Conner joined the Committee on 1 January 2016. theyear.
Such areas have included impairment on loans Davidhas significant global banking experience, strong andadvances, goodwill impairment testing and valuation of riskmanagement credentials and an indepth knowledge financial instruments, and the impact of the Strategic Review.
The Committee has also had deeper discussions on the enhancements to specific areas of the Groups control environment and the Groups compliance under the requirements of the Volcker Rule.
This report also sets out how the Committee reached a position whereby it was satisfied that the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts meet Naguib Kheraj the test of the fair, balanced and understandable statement Chair of the Audit Committee made by the Board, and how the Committee has satisfied itself as to the quality of the audits conducted by the Groups statutory auditors and by its Group Internal Audit function.
The Committee has also spent time discussing the control environment and operational risk.
There is an overlap between the work of the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
While the Board Risk Committee has considered issues relating to operational risk management, the Audit Committee has considered the issues from a practical point ofview.
To gain greater insight into the lessons learned from operational risk, the information provided by Group Internal Audit has been refined so as to increase the concentration on actions being taken to address weaknesses and ensuring that there is clear accountability for actions required to be followed up to close audit findings.
One of the observations made as part of the 2014 Committee Effectiveness Review was that in discussing audit findings, explanation tended to be provided bythose in control functions rather than line management responsible for the activity.
During 2015, this has been addressed by inviting line management to be present when issues are being discussed so as to enable greater engagement between operational management and the Audit Committee.
79 Corporate governance Audit Committee Who sits on the Audit Committee Scheduled Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 included: meetings Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial N Kheraj Chair 6 6 Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Group General D P Conner appointed 1 January 2016 N A Counsel: Group Head, Legal and Compliance: Group Company C M Hodgson 6 6 Secretary: Group statutory auditors.
Dr B E Grote 6 6 As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee has private members only meetings.
Directors who stepped down during 2015 2016 The Committee has written terms of reference that can R Markland stepped down 6 May 2015 2 2 beviewed at sc.
They include all the material points recommended under the UK Corporate Governance Code Dr L H Thunell stepped down 31 January 2016 6 6 The Committees composition and role The Committee received reports from Group Finance on changes in accounting standards and disclosure requirements The Committee members have detailed and relevant and on significant accounting issues at each reporting period, experience.
The Board is satisfied that Christine Hodgson including taxation.
The Committee was satisfied that the hasrecent relevant financial experience and that all the other Groups policies and practices are appropriate.
During the year, Committee members have board experience and knowledge the Committee received reports from Group Finance on offinancial reporting and international business.
Details of their implementing IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective from experience can be found on pages 62 to 65.
These reports covered project governance, members are independent.
keyrisks, the implementation approach as well as the expected The overlapping membership between the Committee and funding requirements.
The Committee was made aware of theBoard Risk, Remuneration, Brand, Values and Conduct thechange to the accounting requirements for classification andBoard Financial Crime Risk Committees is one of the and measurement of financial assets and the new expected mechanisms for ensuring that the linkage between the Audit creditloss impairment provisioning approach and the enhanced Committee and other Board committees avoids gaps or hedging requirements required by IFRS 9. unnecessary duplications between the remit of each committee.
The Committee received detailed reports from specialist The Committees role is to review, on behalf of the Board, functions such as Group Internal Audit, Group Risk and Group theGroups internal financial controls.
It is also responsible Legal.
The Committee also received reports and updates from foroversight and advice to the Board on matters relating to KPMG.
This year, KPMG has focused particularly on credit, financial reporting and has exercised oversight of the work valuation, goodwill and restructuring costs.
The Committee is undertaken by both Group Internal Audit and the Groups therefore made aware of all materially relevant issues that have statutory auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
concerned management during the year.
For the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee paid Financial reporting particular attention to the following issues: The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial Impairment of loans and advances reporting is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Valuation of financial instruments Groups financial performance, reviewing any significant Goodwill impairment testing financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Impact of the Strategic Review, including restructuring costs Group Finance issues detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements to all reporting entities within the Group in Impairment of loans and advances advance of each reporting period end.
These are followed up by an extensive dialogue between Group Finance and the reporting The net charge to the income statement in respect of units on any new requirements, clarifying understanding and impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk ensuring consistency in reporting.
Much of the processing and provisions for the year ended 31 December 2015 is related control activities are carried out in the Groups three $4,976 million.
Throughout the year, the Committee requested main processing hubs and this helps drive efficiencies and and received information on specific names and industries consistency in the control environment.
The interaction between based on its assessment of the external environment, country reporting teams and the centralised hubs is subject developments in footprint markets and areas identified in toaprocess of evaluation.
Where specialist skills or judgement discussions with the Board Risk Committee.
There is some arerequired, such as credit impairment, financial instrument common membership across the Audit Committee and the valuation, goodwill assessment, evaluation of significant legal Board Risk Committee with the Chair of the Audit Committee cases and pensionrelated calculations, centralised teams being a member of the Board Risk Committee and vice versa.
manage the activity and work with the relevant country teams.
This ensures that, in addition to an assessment of current The submission of financial information from each reporting adequacy of provisions, the Committee is also afforded a entity to Group Finance is subject to certification by the forwardlooking view on potential risks and their impact.
The responsible incountry chief financial officer, and analytical Committee also receives reports from management at each review procedures are carried out both incountry and at reporting period, detailing, among other things, the composition Grouplevel.
of the loan book, provisioning levels and cover ratio by client 80 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report segment, and the judgement exercised around the individual considers that, other than as noted below, the headroom and portfolio impairment provisions.
available is sufficient to support the carrying value.
The Group undertakes its annual assessment of goodwill impairment as at In 2015, this covered the following key areas: 30 September each year and the Committee receives a detailed In Corporate & Institutional Clients and Commercial Clients, paper outlining the forecasts used for determining cash flows, major individual provisions were assessed for adequacy the basis of the assumptions used including any change from through a review of the assumptions underpinning possible previous years, headroom availability and sensitivities of the recovery options and related cash flows.
For certain significant forecasts to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
exposures in the performing book, particularly those graded Additionally, for each interim and yearend reporting date, an credit grade 12 and managed by Group Special Asset update is also provided to the Committee, in particular for cash Management, the Committee was briefed on business plans, generating units CGU where the goodwill held is either material management assessment of the recoveries and collateral or more prone to pressure in a stress scenario.
Trends in early alert accounts see Risk overview Committee focused in particular on the goodwill impacted by on pages 156 to 160 were shared and the concentration the Strategic Review announced on 3 November 2015. ofexposures in certain sectors such as Commodities and As at 31 December 2015, management identified a shortfall geographies such as China and India were analysed in further between the valueinuse and the carrying amounts of the detail see pages 156 to 160 in Risk overview Thailand and Taiwan CGUs and proposed a total impairment In Private Banking, provisions are assessed on an individual of$488 million in respect of the goodwill associated with both basis.
Loan impairment increased to $94 million following CGUs.
The Taiwan impairment of $362 million arose principally animpairment provision relating to a single client case from a slowdown in the local market and the impact on projected cash flows.
Thailand impairment of $126 million arose In Retail Clients, where provisions are assessed more on as a consequence of management actions to reposition the acollective basis other than for mortgages, an analysis business following the Strategic Review and has been classified byproducts and geographies was provided with related as Restructuring.
The Committee also continued to gaincomfort from the fact that the Retail loan book is The Committee reviewed the forecasts and the assumptions predominantly secured and the loantovalue ratio on used to derive them and agreed that the proposed impairment themortgage book remains low at 49 per cent charges were reasonable.
Further details can be found in note25 on page 294.
The Committee has discussed impairment with management and the auditors, and considers the provisions held within each Impact of the Strategic Review of the client segments to be appropriate.
The Group announced its Strategic Review on 3 November Valuation of financial instruments 2015.
The Committee considered: The Committee receives reports at each reporting period, The extent to which restructuring provisions can be detailing the valuation process which is undertaken by a unit recognised and attributed to the Strategic Review, and the independent of the business : the amounts reserved to cater for measurement of any recognised provisions model and projection risks, which cover both Level 2 and Level Whether certain noncurrent assets should be reclassified 3 assets: and the significant valuation judgements in respect asheld for sale ofLevel 3 instruments.
Impairment charges or revaluations arising from Strategic The judgements in relation to the valuation of financial Review actions instruments are more subjective in respect of Level 3 assets, where the value is based on models that use a significant Whether the level of disclosure required in the Annual Report degree of nonmarketbased inputs.
For the Group, the and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable quantum of such assets is very low: of the $198 billion financial The Committee reviewed managements judgements, including assets held at fair value as at 31 December 2015, only $3billion, the assumptions behind them, and are satisfied that these are or 1.5 per cent, was Level 3. reasonable.
The Committee has reviewed the related In addition, the Group enhanced its inputs into the methodology disclosures and consider them to be appropriate.
utilised for estimating derivative credit and funding valuation adjustments, to bring them more in line with market practice.
Disclosures The estimates now utilise more marketimplied default The Committee discussed the proposed disclosure within this probabilities and external funding rates rather than expected years Annual Report and Accounts arising from: loss calculations based on historical default probabilities and internal funding rates.
Alignment to best practice through the application of the BBACode for Financial Reporting Disclosure The net effect of this change in estimate amounted to additional charges of $863 million.
The Committee considered the Bilateral discussions between the UK Prudential Regulation underlying changes that were proposed and agreed the Authority PRA and the BBA, which inform best practice changes were reasonable.
included in the BBA code noted above UK Corporate Governance Code change in the context of Goodwill impairment testing theViability statement The total goodwill carried on the balance sheet as at The Committee reviewed and discussed the Groups Pillar 3 31 December 2015 is $3,616 million and, based on the review Disclosures and the main changes from the previous period of forecasts and assumptions by management, the Committee 81 Corporate governance Audit Committee including countercyclical capital buffer, leverage ratio, interest isalso provided with the Group Internal Audit Information rate risk in the banking book and encumbered assets.
Report, which provides the Committee with additional information on significant areas referred to in the Group Internal The Committee also considered the impact of the following: Audit Report.
Itcontains management actions to address items Guidelines issued by the European Banking Authority in included onthe audit issues map, summarises the audit December 2014 on materiality, proprietary and confidentiality completed over thecourse of the year and overdue highrisk and on disclosure frequency under Part Eight of the Capital issues identified inaudits since the last Group Internal Audit Requirements Regulation Information Report to the Committee.
Standards for revised Pillar 3 disclosure requirements issued During the course of the year, for those most significant matters by the Basel Committee in January 2015 which set out the being monitored by Group Internal Audit which appear on the first phase of the review audit issues map, business and or regional management have been invited to attend Committee meetings to provide updates Fair, balanced and understandable on the steps being taken to enhance the control environment and address internal audit findings with a specific focus on The Committee has reviewed and monitored the credit controls.
appropriateness and completeness of the published financial statements of the Group.
In light of the deliberate management At the Committees request as a result of internal audit findings, actions taken, the Committee has paid particular attention specific deep dives into the Groups Private Bank and Pakistan tothe formal announcements relating to the Groups financial control environments were undertaken.
In relation to these, performance, significant financial reporting judgements and theCommittee considered the residual risk profile based on estimates made by the Group.
On behalf of the Board, the keycontrol indicators, discussed recent adverse events and Committee has considered, and has satisfied itself, that the thecontrol enhancement programmes being rolled out across processes and procedures in place ensure that the Annual both the Private Bank and in Pakistan.
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and In addition to reporting to the Audit Committee, Group Internal understandable, and provides the information necessary for Audit provides the Board Risk Committee with a summary of shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Group Internal Audits appraisal of controls across key risks business model and strategy.
subject to the Committees oversight.
The statement is underpinned by the Committees, and the The Committee also considered a report from KPMG on the Boards, belief that the Annual Report and Accounts does Groups control environment and managements responses notexhibit any bias: that all important elements have been tothe findings together with proposed timelines for addressing disclosed: and that the descriptions of the Groups business the findings.
asset out in the strategic report are consistent with those usedfor financial reporting in the Groups financial statements.
Interaction with regulators Together with the chairs of the audit committees of UK banks, building societies and insurers, In making its assessment, the Committee applies its Naguib Kheraj met with the Bank of England.
Byron Grote also accumulated knowledge and experience from Board meetings, attended one of these discussions.
In addition, as Committee engagement with management throughout the year and from Chair, Naguib spoke at the PRA Regulatory College and held access to management performance information.
discussions with the PRA, the New York Department of Key judgements and the significant issues reported are Financial Services, and the Reserve Bank of India.
Together consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties with Christine Hodgson and Lars Thunell, Naguib also met and critical judgements set out in the financial statements withthe Federal Reserve Bank ofNew York.
Speaking Up policy When it has been necessary to use specialist terms, these havebeen defined for clarity and consistency in the Glossary The Groups Speaking Up policy allows our employees to raise, onpages 353 to 356. in confidence, any concerns that they may have about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other areas.
As part of the Committees yearend discussions, consideration The Legal and Compliance Management Information Report was given to the Going concern and Viability statements, provides the Committee with data relating to business referral furtherdetails of which can be found on page 142. and Speaking Up cases broken down into type of allegation.
The Report also advises the Committee of the number of any Oversight of internal controls disciplinary actions that have arisen as a result of business The Committee has considered reports in respect of the control referral and speaking up cases, together with a regional environment in the Groups businesses.
breakdown across the Groups footprint of the main investigative type.
The information enables the Committee The Committee discussed control environment issues, their root toconsider whether there are any trends across the Groups causes and managements responses and remediation activities.
markets in terms of the type and nature of Speaking Up On a regular basis, the Group Internal Audit Report provides incidences together with the resolution and consequences.
theCommittee with Group Internal Audits view of the system ofinternal controls across all risk types, business and country Significant investigations and material disputes functions.
In addition, the Committee is provided with an audit issues map which highlights the most significant matters being As part of routine reporting, the Committee has received an monitored by Group Internal Audit and items of thematic interest overview of internal investigations referred to the Compliance which have arisen as part of audits and which warrant the Investigations team in 2015 and summaries of the most Committees attention.
Alongside this report, the Committee significant internal investigations underway.
In 2015, those 82 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report investigations that relate to financial crime have been reported Group statutory auditor to the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee following its The Committee has exercised oversight of the work undertaken establishment on 1 January 2015. by KPMG throughout the year.
As Committee Chair, Naguib met The Committee has also received summary overviews of with local audit partners in India.
In addition, and in response to material disputes and significant crossborder orders facing one of the findings of the 2014 Audit Committee effectiveness theGroup and the action taken to manage and mitigate risk review, KPMGs local regional partners from the UAE, arising from them.
Singapore, India and Hong Kong attended Committee meetings.
Such interaction enables the Committee members Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance togain greater insight of the challenges faced in the Groups markets from a statutory audit perspective.
It provides the local The Committee has reviewed the resourcing and proposed work regional partners assessment of the Groups control systems plans for both the Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance and infrastructure in their markets, the quality of the Groups functions, and is satisfied that both are appropriate in light of the management from a control perspective and a benchmark of proposed areas of focus, expertise and skill that are required the Groups control environment against local and international within both functions, given the current regulatory environment.
They also provided the Committee with insight into local The Committee is also satisfied with the independence of the regulatory developments and the Groups standing and Group Internal Audit function.
In addition, Naguib Kheraj had relationships with regulators in the country.
regular meetings with the Group Head of Internal Audit in 2015.
The Committee has discussed the business and financial risks Towards the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015, with KPMG and has sought and received assurance that these EYconducted a gap analysis of Group Internal Audits risks have been properly addressed in the audit strategy and processes against the Global Institute of Auditors Standards plan, which have been reviewed by the Committee.
This gap analysis was part of a periodic update Committee has enquired, and is satisfied, that KPMG has following their effectiveness review in 2013.
The Committee allocated sufficient resources to address these risks.
The discussed the findings of EYs report which reported known Committee has sought and received assurance that no undue and minor exceptions to the Standards.
pressure has been asserted on the level of audit fees to ensure As part of Group Internal Audits ongoing process that there is no risk to audit work being conducted effectively improvements, Deloitte performed a review of Group Internal and independently.
Audits risk assessment process in order to ensure that Group In accordance with The Auditing Practices Board requirement, Internal Audit maintains best practice.
While no significant the lead audit engagement partner was rotated in 2015, having shortcomings were identified, certain efficiencies were held the role for five years.
The new lead audit engagement suggested which would not compromise the integrity of the partner has a background of auditing banks and understands process.
Following Deloittes recommendations, the Committee the markets in which the Group operates.
was advised of the proposed changes ahead of the Groups 2016 Risk Assessment exercise which commenced in the The Company complies with the Statutory Audit Services second half of 2015. forLarge Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use ofCompetitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee The Committee monitored and assessed the role and Responsibilities Order 2014.
A tender for audit services was effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
This included last conducted in 2013, following which KPMG were appointed reviewing and monitoring Group Internal Audits progress as the Groups statutory auditor.
Before the audit tender against its annual audit plan and the review and monitoring of tookplace, KPMG had been the Groups statutory auditor postaudit actions.
The Committee also reviewed and approved forover 25years and has regularly rotated its lead partner.
A review of the performance and effectiveness of KPMG With the exception of the yearend focused meeting, isconducted on an annual basis.
This review includes an at every scheduled meeting the Committee receives a Legal, assessment of their independence and objectivity.
The review Compliance and Regulatory Report.
This report provides a was performed jointly by Group Internal Audit and Group summary of significant legal, compliance and regulatory risks Finance and took the form of a structured survey which was facing the Group, and key actions being taken to address or sent to Committee members, the chairs of the Group subsidiary mitigate them.
It is accompanied by The Legal and Compliance audit committees, the Groups Management Team, country Management Information Report, which in addition to Speaking chief executive officers, regional country chief financial officers, Up, includes the legal risk map which highlights the most members of the Group Finance Leadership Team and country significant matters being monitored by Legal and Compliance, heads of audit.
The results of the survey were discussed by the key regulatory programme updates, significant compliance Committee.
Overall, it was felt that KPMG is considered to be andregulatory issues and a regulatory relationship scorecard.
effective, objective and independent in their role as Group In addition to receiving this information, twice a year the statutory auditor.
Committee receives a material disputes report.
In 2015, the Committee also requested a specific report on managing KPMGs audit fees for 2015 were presented in the context of regulatory reform and updates on the Groups state of readiness theaudit tender as negotiated by the Committee and adjusted for compliance with the Volcker Rule Volcker and regulations.
for current changes in the size of the Group.
So as to gain greater insight into the Groups state of readiness for Volcker compliance, as part of the overseas Board meeting in Washington, DC, Committee members also met with PwC who had been engaged to assist in the delivery of the Volcker compliance programme.
83 Corporate governance Audit Committee Non-audit services In 2015, the Group spent $8.8 million on nonaudit services provided by KPMG.
The Groups policy on the award of nonaudit services to auditors the Policy explicitly states that the auditors should only be used when there is evidence that there is no alternative in terms of quality and cost, whether knowledge and experience of the Group is required to deliver an efficient and effective solution or where they are required to be used by regulatory requirements.
The Policy clearly sets out the criteria for when the Committees prior written approval is required.
Further details on non-audit services provided by KPMG can be found in note 8 on page 260.
Further information on the Groups approach to non-audit services can be found on page149 Linkages between the Committee and subsidiary Board audit committees While being mindful of the need to not adversely impact the independence of the Groups subsidiary audit committees, there are documented processes in place that define the linkages between, and roles of, the Audit Committee and the audit committees of subsidiary companies.
Another way in which the Committee strives to ensure appropriate linkages between the Committee and the Groups subsidiary audit committees is by holding an annual call hosted by Naguib as Committee Chair and attended by the chairs of the subsidiary audit committees.
In 2015, the Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Head of Legal and Compliance, Deputy Group Chief Financial Officer and lead audit partner of the Groups statutory auditor also participated on the call.
This call provides the opportunity to share, among other things, the Committees priorities for the year ahead and to discuss ways in which the linkages between the subsidiary audit committees and the Committee can be further strengthened and enhanced without comprising independence.
Ongoing training and development As detailed on page 74 and as part of the independent nonexecutive director engagement and ongoing development plans, for those independent nonexecutive directors who are members of the Committee, a joint session was held with the Board Risk Committee on credit valuation adjustment and prudential valuation adjustment.
Committee effectiveness review In keeping with the approach to Committee effectiveness reviews adopted by other Board committees, in 2015 an internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted.
Thisreview, facilitated by Group Corporate Secretariat, involvedeach committee member providing their thoughts onthe Committees effectiveness.
The feedback was then formally discussed by the Committee and an action plan designed to address the key observations.
84 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Corporate governance Board Risk Committee David Conner Chair of the Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder The Committees composition has evolved during the course ofthe year.
In addition to Lars stepping down from the I joined the Board and Board Risk Committee on Committee, Paul Skinner stepped down on 31 December 2015, 1 January 2016 and following a well-managed handover, and I would like to thank Paul for his valuable contributions succeeded Lars Thunell as Chair on 1 February 2016. tothe Committee.
Gay Huey Evans joined the Committee Iwould like to express my gratitude to Lars for his on16 June 2015.
Gay has extensive banking and financial Chairmanship of the Committee since April 2014. services experience, and significant commercial and UK The Group manages enterprise-wide risks through its risk regulatory and governance experience.
management framework, with the objective of maximising risk-adjusted returns while remaining within the Groups risk tolerance.
Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to generate profits consistently and sustainably and is therefore David Conner acentral part of the financial and operational management Chair of the Board Risk Committee ofthe Group.
Challenging geo-political and economic headwinds and volatility presented a difficult context for risk management in 2015.
For the Board Risk Committee to be truly effective, it needs tobe forward looking.
Consideration continues to be given towhat information needs to be provided to the Committee onthe Groups current risk position as well as the evolving riskenvironment.
The Committee receives regular reports on risk management, including portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an activity within its terms ofreference.
The Committee also has deeper discussions onarolling basis on different sections of a consolidated risk information report that is provided at each scheduled Committee meeting.
The following pages provide an overview of the Committees activities in 2015.
An overview of the Groups risk profile is set out on pages 161 to 199 and our approach to risk management is set out on pages 204 to 217.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has sought, and has received, assurance regarding the independence of the Groups Risk function in its role of maintaining the Groups risk management framework, upholding the overall integrity of the Groups risk return decisions and exercising direct risk-control ownership for credit, market, country cross-border, short-term liquidity and operational risks.
85 Corporate governance Board Risk Committee Who sits on the Board Risk Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 included: meetings meetings Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief 1 D P Conner Chair appointed on 1 January 2016 N A N A Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Head of Internal Audit: Group Company Secretary: Group O P Bhatt 6 6 1 1 Treasurer: Group statutory auditors G Huey Evans, OBE appointed on 16 June 2015 4 4 N A As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee N Kheraj 6 6 1 1 meeting, the Committee has private members-only meetings.
Directors who stepped down during 2015 2016 The Committee has written terms of reference O H J Stocken, CBE that can be viewed at sc.
com stepped down on 28 February 2015 2 2 N A P D Skinner, CBE stepped down on 31 December 2015 6 6 1 1 Dr L H Thunell stepped down on 31 January 2016 6 6 1 1 1.
David Conner was appointed Committee Chair on 1 February 2016 The Committees role Forexample, the report provides an overview of credit risk inthe Groups Corporate & Institutional, Commercial, Private The Committees composition reflects the Groups belief that it Banking and Retail Clients portfolio.
should comprise members with a deep and broad experience of banking and of the risk factors affecting it.
Further details A report from the Group Chief Risk Officer is also presented ofthe Committee members experience can be found on atevery scheduled meeting.
These reports cover the pages62 to 65. macroeconomic environment, geo-political outlook, material exposures and ongoing risks.
In addition to these regular The Committee has assessed the effectiveness, resourcing and reports, at every scheduled meeting, the Committee also independence of the Groups risk function.
As Committee Chair, receives a report from the Group Treasurer, which covers Lars Thunell was involved in the process to appoint both the market developments, liquidity, capital, recovery and resolution interim Group Chief Risk Officer and Mark Smith, who joined planning, and rating agency updates.
the Group as Group Chief Risk Officer on 25 January 2016.
At every scheduled meeting, the Committee also receives To guard against gaps or unnecessary duplication between aregulatory update in relation to capital, liquidity and risk.
Board committees, throughout 2015, there was overlapping Thisprovides a summary of the key prudential regulatory membership between the Committee and the Audit, developments affecting the Groups capital, risk-weighted Remuneration, Brand, Values and Conduct and Board Financial assets and liquidity measures.
Such information enables the Crime Risk Committees.
Committee to discuss with management the major risks faced The Committees role is to exercise oversight on behalf of the by the Group across its businesses.
Board of Group-wide risk, and to provide assurance to the In 2015, the Committee has had deeper discussions on the Board that the overall framework for complying with the Risk following topics: Management Principles and Risk Tolerance Statement is Commodities and energy operating effectively.
In the few instances where it does not have primary oversight for a given type of risk, the Committee Cyber security interacts closely with the other Board committees where the Operational risk Financial Markets, Private Banking and remits of those other committees clearly cover risk-related Corporate & Institutional Clients issues.
For example, the Audit Committee has oversight of the Groups internal financial controls: the Remuneration Committee Aircraft has oversight of the risks relating to remuneration: the Board Group Special Asset Management Financial Crime Risk Committee has oversight responsibilities Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Risk Data inrelation to financial crime compliance matters: and the Brand, Aggregation and Reporting requirements Values and Conduct Committee has oversight of the mechanisms by which reputational risk is managed.
This As part of the overseas Board meeting held in Delhi in March interaction assists the Committee in ensuring that it is well 2015, the Committee met with local management and informed on discussions held, and the close collaboration of the discussed the challenges, opportunities, risks and mitigants Committee Chairs helps to ensure that there are no gaps and inrelation to risk management in India.
any potential for unnecessary duplication is avoided.
Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from the Group In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee is closely Head of Internal Audit.
These reports provide the Committee supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Financial with a summary of Group Internal Audits appraisal of controls Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Treasurer.
across key risks subject to the Committees oversight, together with the key risk issues identified by Group Internal Audits work Risk information provided to the Committee and management actions put in place to address the findings.
The Committee tracks a wide range of risk metrics through A separate report to the Audit Committee provides Group arisk information report.
This report is provided at each Internal Audits view of the system of internal controls across scheduled Committee meeting and provides an overview allrisk types, business and country functions.
oftheGroups risk profile against the Groups risk tolerance.
86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report The Committee is authorised to investigate or seek any Stress testing information relating to any activity within its terms of reference.
The Committee tracks a wide range of risk metrics that are also The Committee focused on the following matters at its meetings periodically reported to the Board.
Stress testing and scenario in 2015: analysis are used to assess the financial and management capability of the Group to continue to operate effectively under Risk management framework and principles extreme but plausible trading conditions.
As noted above, the Groups risk management framework The Committee maintains oversight of the Groups overall provides the architecture for the overall management and stress-testing programme, reviewing the design, key control of all risks and for the implementation of the risk assumptions and the outcomes of principal tests.
The Groups Code of Conduct sets Committee reviewed the results of the Bank of England stress thestandards for individual behaviour.
test which the Group, along with the largest UK banks, was required to undertake.
Risk management principles are top-level statements of Further details of stress testing can be found on page 207 principle that inform the Groups overall approach to risk of the Risk and capital review management and the Groups risk culture.
Further details regarding the risk management framework Operational risk andprinciples can be found on page 204 of the Risk and capital review The Groups operational risk tolerance approach aims to control operational losses finance and reputational so that they do not Risk tolerance cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
Every year, the Committee pays careful attention to the The Committee has received summaries of the Groups formulation of the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement, in order to operational risk profile, measures relating to operational risk assure itself that it is effective in setting appropriate boundaries tolerance thresholds, and updates on risks facing the Group in respect of all main risk types.
The Groups Risk Tolerance and action being taken or to be taken to mitigate them, such as Statement defines the maximum level of risk the Group is business restrictions.
ordinarily willing to take in pursuit of its strategy, in accordance More details concerning the Groups approach to operational with its risk principles.
Risk tolerance constrains risk to the risk can be found on pages 197 and 214 of the Risk and levels where the potential for any financial or reputational capitalreview damage is consistent with the sustained pursuit of strategy andin line with the reasonable expectations of stakeholders.
Risk management disclosures Onbehalf of the Board, the Committee reviews a range of The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the Annual risktolerance assessments and stress tests which consider Report and Accounts and the Half Year Report and has alignment with the Groups tightened Risk Tolerance Statement.
reviewed and approved the disclosure on the work of the Risk tolerance covers credit and country cross-border risk, Committee.
In reviewing the operational risk disclosures made capital and earnings volatility, market risk, liquidity risk, in this years Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee has operational risk, reputational risk and pension risk.
taken into consideration The Financial Stability Boards guidelines on principles and recommendations on disclosures Through its risk management framework, the Group manages contained in the Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising riskreport issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force in adjusted returns while remaining within the Groups risk October 2012.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the tolerance.
Committee also reviewed the Basel II Pillar 3 annual disclosure.
Further details regarding the Groups Risk Tolerance Statement can be found on pages 25 to 26 of the Strategic Committee reporting to the Board report and page 206 of the Risk and capital review The Board received minutes of Committee meetings.
There has Capital and liquidity also been formal periodic risk reporting to the Board in 2015 on risk issues, an overview of the Committees main areas of focus On a frequent basis, the Committee considers and discusses from the Committee Chair, and the discussions held by the the Groups capital and liquidity position and the regulatory Committee in relation to the half and full year results.
The Committee hasconsidered the Groups Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment which Interaction with management considers the Groups liquidity position, its framework and whether sufficient liquidity resources are being maintained to On a regular basis, the Committee Chair met individually with meet liabilities as they fall due.
The Committee reviews the the Group Chief Risk Officer.
These meetings allow open liquidity risk stress testing framework and assumptions together discussion of any matters relating to issues arising from the with the liquidity risk tolerance statement.
With regard to capital, Committees formal discussions.
the Committee reviews the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Interaction with regulators Assessment in detail in order to satisfy itself that the Groups approach to capital planning is comprehensive, rigorous and The Committee met with one of the Groups UK lead regulators, consistent with both the current regulatory requirements and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The purpose of the the likely anticipated outlook.
meeting was to enable a discussion between the Committee and the PRA concerning prudentially focused topics such as Further details concerning capital can be found on page 218 and liquidity can be found in the Risk and capital review on the PRAs view of the Groups risk management framework and page 156 risk tolerance statement.
87 Corporate governance Board Risk Committee Ongoing training and development As part of the independent non-executive director engagement and ongoing development plans, as detailed on page 74, for those independent non-executive directors who are a member of the Committee, a joint session was held with the Audit Committee on credit valuation adjustment and prudential valuation adjustment.
Committee effectiveness reviews In keeping with the approach to Committee effectiveness reviews adopted by other Board committees, in 2015, an internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted.
Thisreview, facilitated by Group Corporate Secretariat, involved each Committee member providing their thoughts on the Committees effectiveness.
The feedback was formally discussed by the Committee and an action plan has been designed to address the key observations.
88 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Corporate governance Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Jasmine Whitbread Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Dear Shareholder conducted an in-depth review of the Groups local brand positioning and sustainability issues.
This is my first report as Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee, having succeeded Paul Skinner on The Committee continued to review the Groups position on 1 January 2016.
Sincere thanks are due to Paul for his community engagement, with significant levels of high-quality leadership as Chair of the Committee since its inception skills-based employee volunteering.
I would also like to thank Byron Grote for his theimpact of this investment over time.
valuable contribution until stepping down from the Dovetailing our business with other committees and with the Committee in June 2015.
Board remains an important element of our work.
This is It has been important for the Committee to maintain momentum particularly the case in our oversight of government and during this past year of significant change and challenge for regulatory relationships.
This year, we were asked by the Audit theGroup, internally and externally, when a focus on our brand, Committee to examine the Retail Clients complaint management values and conduct was never more important.
and governance process and, more generally, we will benefit from a client-oriented perspective.
Good conduct remains a key priority for the Group, and the Committee dedicated considerable time to examining the At the end of the year, we undertook a review of our progress being made in delivering the Groups Conduct effectiveness as a Committee to identify where improvements Programme.
We reviewed how the refreshed Group Code of could be made.
We are using conclusions to inform our agenda Conduct is being communicated and embedded throughout for the year ahead.
In light of this, we have supported the the Group and monitored the progress against My Voice Groups Strategic Review of our Here for good brand promise employee engagement action plans.
The Committee sought since inception, and have planned a deep look at culture across evidence of commitment from employees at every level to the Group.
More broadly, with the new business strategy, strengthen the Groups compliance culture.
direction and Management Team guiding the Group, we will want to ensure a realignment of the Committees agenda to At each meeting, the Committee reviews the Groups ensure maximum coherence and value-add to the business.
reputational risk exposure, including an analysis of the material reputational risks facing the Group, as well as the strategies in place to protect the Groups internal and external reputation.
InMay 2015, the Committee, along with members and external advisor members of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee, met with representatives of the Financial Conduct Authority Jasmine Whitbread FCA to discuss best practice in the area of conduct risk.
Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee The Groups approach to sustainability was discussed, taking on board lessons learnt during the year, including through our engagement with civil society groups.
The Committee will return to this in 2016, in light of the new strategy.
The Committee continued to oversee the evolution of the Groups brand and marketing initiatives, with a consistent drive to ensure that the Group maximises return on investment.
Thisincluded reviewing the value of our Liverpool Football Club sponsorship and the Groups recent commitment to Project Everyone, a worldwide project under the auspices of the United Nations, which aspires to communicate the newly agreed Sustainable Development Goals to seven billion people.
In March 2015, during the Boards visit to Delhi, the Committee 89 Corporate governance Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Who sits on the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Scheduled Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 included: meetings Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Deputy Group 1 J M Whitbread Chair appointed on 1 September 2015 2 2 Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Group Company Secretary: Group 2 Dr K Campbell 4 5 Head of Corporate Affairs Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 5 5 The Committee has written terms of reference C M Hodgson 5 5 that can be viewed at sc.
com Directors who stepped down during 2015 2016 1.
Jasmine Whitbread was appointed Chair of the Committee on P D Skinner, CBE stepped down on 31 December 2015 5 5 1January 2016 2.
Dr Kurt Campbell was unable to attend one meeting due to medical Dr B E Grote stepped down on 16 June 2015 3 3 reasons Committee composition and role The Committee continues to support the use of brand and marketing measurement tools, which has been evidenced by The Committees membership is made up of a number of the Groups focus on the use of the Return on Marketing directors who have significant experience and knowledge of a Investment ROMI technique in Retail Banking, which the combination of geo-political relations, sustainability matters, Committee has assessed with a view to quantifying benefits international and government relations.
The biographies of the and optimising spend.
The ROMI methodology was initially Committee members are set out on pages 62 to 65. rolled out in three pilot countries Hong Kong, Singapore and The Committee provides oversight of the Groups brand, India.
It is proposed that three more countries are added in conduct, culture and values, reputational risk, government and 2016 the UAE, Kenya and Korea.
ROMI insights are being regulatory relations and sustainability issues.
incorporated into plans to improve marketing effectiveness.
Furthermore, as a direct result of the Committees feedback, Brand the ROMI technique and capability was brought in-house from the external provider, enabling the Group to conduct end-toThe Committee reviewed the realigned strategic approach to end ROMI analysis.
leverage the Groups sponsorships, to drive brand recognition and also create bespoke assets and events to deepen client At the end of 2015, the Committee confirmed its support of the relationships in the Groups core markets.
In this vein, the Groups Strategic Review of our Here for good brand promise, Committee supported the Groups continued sponsorship of which was being conducted to identify the lessons learned Liverpool Football Club LFC to drive brand salience by from the execution of Here for good: and consider how the intensifying digital and social media collaboration with LFC.
The brand strategy could be refined to support the new business Committee remains supportive that the Groups brand strategy strategy going forward.
The Committee will assess the is aspirational and demonstrates, via all communication outcomes of this review throughout 2016. channels, that Standard Chartered is a committed and knowledgeable partner to its clients, markets and communities.
Conduct The Committee supported the Groups participation in Project In line with the Committees responsibility to oversee the Everyone and discussed the critical benefits it would bring for Groups approach to raising the bar on conduct, the Committee society globally and for the Group.
In discussing the breadth of has focused on the progress being made in regard to the themes that the 17 Sustainable Development Goals covered, Groups Conduct Programme.
As part of this, the Committee the Committee agreed that it was essential to focus on the discussed the four conduct pillars through which the Group is Sustainable Development Goals that were of particular reviewing conduct: Fair Outcomes for Clients: Effective Financial relevance to the Group, its markets and clients.
The Committee Markets: Financial Crime Prevention, and Creating the Right noted the plans in place to leverage the Groups sponsorship of Environment.
The Committee agreed on the need to be explicit LFC to disseminate the Sustainable Development Goals, on what good conduct means in day-to-day business outcomes including during the football match between LFC and Aston Villa and ways of working.
on 26 September 2015, when the LFC football shirt featured the In September 2015, the Committee reviewed the refreshed Sustainable Development Goals logo.
Group Code of Conduct the Code.
In discussing the revised The Committee conducted a thorough review of the Groups content, the Committee was pleased to note that the tone and two-year sponsorship 2015 2016 of the EY Entrepreneur of the messaging around individual ownership and accountability had Year Programme a global annual awards programme that been emphasised.
As part of its review, the Committee honours top entrepreneurs for their contributions to the endorsed the importance of tone from the top demonstrated economy and society.
Furthermore, it continued to review the by the Group Chief Executives introduction to employees, LFC sponsorship, assessing the Groups prime objectives of communicating the need to embed the Code.
The Committee this sponsorship and analysing the fee structure, which aligns noted that the Code continues to receive sustained focus and well to the Groups pay for performance culture.
The remains a key priority for the Group.
Committee emphasised the importance of measuring and In considering its role in regard to conduct, the Committee demonstrating the value derived from this significant agreed on the importance of ensuring that its approach to sponsorship, which is of particular relevance in Asian markets, conduct is value enhancing for the Group.
Accordingly, the in light of the economic environment and current headwinds.
Board continues to have overall oversight of conduct and the 90 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Committee continues to oversee the implementation of the This year, the Committee sought and received assurance on the Groups approach to raising the bar on conduct.
The Board enhancements that have been made to the Groups approach in Financial Crime Risk Committee focuses on financial crime identifying and managing reputational risk.
This included an compliance oversight.
The Committee will continue to review its update on the ongoing communication under way to ensure role in regard to conduct matters in 2016. that key stakeholders within the business are aware of the need for a robust and systematic approach for identifying, escalating Culture and values and managing reputational risks, and their corresponding responsibility to consider reputational risk in all decision making.
The Committee is fully supportive of the Groups endeavours to create a fair, safe and inclusive place to work that encourages Since January 2015, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee creativity, collaboration and continuous improvement.
has taken responsibility for any reputational risk associated with money laundering, sanctions abuse, bribery and corruption or The Committee received an update on the action plans any related topic.
Further details can be found on page 96. following up on the 2014 My Voice employee engagement survey.
My Voice was introduced in October 2014, designed to Sustainability provide insight on both engagement levels of employees and their alignment against the Groups strategic priorities.
The Towards the end of 2015, the Committee discussed the Groups survey was completed by 85 per cent of employees.
It identified approach to sustainability, in line with the Groups new strategy.
areas of strength, including immense pride in working for the The Committee was fully supportive of the Groups view that Group, commitment and the importance of good conduct.
It there needs to be both clear articulation and demonstration that also covered areas for improvement.
It was recognised that by sustainability at Standard Chartered is broader than our 31 March 2015, 95 per cent of managers were in the process community programmes, and that it needs to be integrated to ofexecuting their action plans.
The Committee will receive an the Groups core business.
It was agreed that focus should be update on My Voice action plans in 2016.
Further details on placed on the significant economic and social impact that the MyVoice can be found on page 20.
Group has through its core business.
The Committee will continue to assess the Groups approach to sustainability in In September 2015, the Committee reviewed the draft response 2016, to ensure that it is simple, measurable and clear for from the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive to the stakeholders to understand.
Banking Standards Board BSB questionnaire concerning culture, behaviour and competence.
The BSB was set up Throughout the year, the Committee continued to assess the following the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards Groups community expenditure.
It was noted that the Groups and the Banking Standards Review published by Sir Richard approach reflected significant levels of employee volunteering Lambert in April 2014.
In discussing the contents of the draft EV time given to both Group EV initiatives and volunteering response, the Committee noted that one of the BSBs aims was opportunities that resonate with employees personally, such as to provide boards with feedback and constructive challenge in mentoring in local schools or charities.
It was recognised that regard to their assessment and management of culture, the proportion of high-quality skills-based EV continued to standards of behaviour and competence.
It was supportive that increase.
The Committee emphasised the importance of the final response focused on a number of key themes of tracking the effectiveness of Group EV initiatives, in line with the particular relevance to the Group.
These themes included the overall community strategy to assess the impacts.
Further importance of our Here for good brand promise: the Board and details on EV can be found on page 23.
Board Committees focus on culture: the role of the Code in assisting employees to live the Groups values and the Client focus continued focus on conduct through the Groups Conduct In 2015, the Committee received an update on the Retail Clients Programme.
The intention is that the Board will discuss the complaint management and governance process.
This update BSBs findings in early 2016. had originated from an Audit Committee request, where it had The Chairmans Here for good Awards the Awards, launched been suggested that the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee in 2012, are designed to enable Group employees to recognise hold a discussion on the programme in place to resolve the the team and individual who best represents Here for good.
The underlying issues of clients complaints, with relevant Awards have once again proved popular with employees with representation from the Retail business segment.
Accordingly, 519 entries from 37 countries and 64,462 votes from the Deputy Group Chief Executive, Chief Executive Officer, Retail employees.
The Committee continues to support the Awards Banking and Chief Operating Officer, Retail Banking participated and its powerful connection to Here for good.
The Committee was reassured to see the focus placed on identifying and addressing the underlying Reputational risk causes of client complaints with a view to reducing factors which led to complaints arising.
Furthermore, in line with the FCAs The Committee reviews the processes by which the Group Treating Customers Fairly principles, the work under way to identifies and manages reputational risk in an effective and ensure that clients do not face post-sale barriers when submitting transparent manner, consistent with the Board-approved Group claims or making a complaint.
The Committee acknowledged the Risk Tolerance Statement.
The Committee receives reports on progress being made to improve automation and standardisation the material thematic reputational risks facing the Group, processes for clients more broadly.
provided from the perspectives of both internal and external stakeholders, at each meeting.
This report sets out the Group Government and regulatory relationships function responsible for managing the issue, the mitigating actions being undertaken and an indication of where trends The Committee has continued to oversee the Groups approach have improved or worsened since the previous update to the to its main government and regulatory relationships across our Committee.
key markets, agreeing on the importance for the Group to engage with governments, policy-makers and other key bodies.
91 Corporate governance Brand, Values and Conduct Committee The Committee was conscious of the fact that given the Groups diverse geographic footprint, there are typically a number of supervisory matters or investigations ongoing at any time.
It sought and received assurance that each major issue is given appropriate management attention and is reported to the relevant governance committee within the Group and the Audit Committee.
During its discussion, the Committee stressed the criticality of ensuring that the management of government and regulatory relationships continued to receive appropriate focus, resource and senior management attention.
Since January 2015, the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee has taken responsibility for the Groups compliance with any remediation or other commitments made in respect of any regulatory order, deferred prosecution agreement or other disciplinary action taken in relation to the Group arising from, orin association with, money laundering, sanctions abuse, and bribery and corruption.
Further details can be foundon page 96.
Committee effectiveness review This year, the Committee undertook an internally facilitated effectiveness review with input from management and regular Committee meeting participants.
Committee members were asked to provide their thoughts and feedback on progress made by the Committee throughout 2015, suggestions for the Committees agenda in 2016 and any top of mind thoughts on the Committees effectiveness overall.
Steps have been taken to consolidate the responses from the effectiveness review and implement them into the Committees 2016 agenda to improve its future effectiveness.
92 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Corporate governance Governance and Nomination Committee Sir John Peace Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder Ruth Markland stepped down from the Committee and as SiD in June 2015: Paul Skinner stepped down from the Committee We have continued to make changes to the membership on 31 December 2015: and Lars Thunell stepped down from of the Board and its committees throughout 2015 and the Committee on 31 January 2016.
I would like to express into 2016.
We have made a number of key appointments mythanks to Ruth, Paul and Lars for their contributions to while reducing the overall size of the Board and theCommittee.
We welcomed Bill Winters to the Board in June 2015, and recommended the appointment of three experienced and highly regarded individuals to the Board as independent non-executive directors during 2015.
Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread joined the Board in April 2015, bringing a combination of Sir John Peace financial services, commercial, regulatory, business leadership Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee and international experience.
We announced David Conners appointment to the Board in December 2015, ahead of him joining the Board in January 2016.
He has significant banking and risk-management experience in the context of our markets having lived and worked across Asia for over 37 years.
Details of these appointments and the other changes made to the Boards composition during the year are set out on page 71.
We continue to believe that a diverse Board facilitates effective discussion and decision-making, both within the boardroom and throughout the Group.
The Committee, and the Board more generally, remain committed to our diversity policy, details of which can be found on page 95, and we are pleased to report that women now represent 20 per cent of our Board membership.
More details on the diverse nature of the Board can be found on pages 62 to 65.
In addition to Board succession, the Committee spent time in2015 discussing key executive and senior management positions.
The new Management Team, formed as part of thereorganisation to execute the new strategy which we announced in November 2015, has further strengthened thispipeline of senior leaders within the Group.
In February last year, I stated my intention to step down as Chairman during the course of 2016.
The process to identify mysuccessor formally began in June 2015, when Naguib Kheraj was appointed as Senior Independent Director SiD.
TheCommittee, chaired by Naguib when considering all matters relating to Chairman succession, has been leading thesearch to identify my successor, with the assistance of twosearch firms.
Details of the process can be found on page94.
93 Corporate governance Governance and Nomination Committee Who sits on the Governance and Nomination Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 included: meetings meetings Group Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and 1 1 Communications: Global Head, Executive Talent: Group Sir John Peace Chair 4 4 3 3 CompanySecretary C M Hodgson appointed 7 May 2015 3 3 1 1 2 N Kheraj 4 4 1 3 J M Whitbread appointed 1 January 2016 N A N A Directors who stepped down during 2015 2016 R Markland stepped down on 15 June 2015 1 1 2 2 P D Skinner, CBE stepped down on 31 December 2015 4 4 3 3 1.
Sir John did not chair any meetings which considered matters relating to the Chairmans succession 2.
Naguib Kheraj was recused from two ad hoc meetings due to a potential conflict Dr L H Thunell 3 3.
Dr Lars Thunell was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to a prior stepped down on 31 January 2016 3 4 3 3 commitment The Committees composition and role andNomination Report concluding in Bills appointment inJune2015.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the Boards structure, size and composition, including the identification, Following the Committees work during 2014 to identify two assessment and recommendation of potential Board newindependent non-executive directors with a combination candidates.
The Committee keeps under review the leadership ofbanking, commercial, leadership and international experience, needs of, and succession planning for, the Group in relation the Committee recommended the appointment of Gay Huey toboth executive directors and other senior executives.
Evans and Jasmine Whitbread to the Board in early 2015, Inaddition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee monitors leading to them joining the Board in April 2015.
The Committee progress towards the implementation of the Board diversity also oversaw the process and recommended the appointment policy and considers any potential situational conflicts of interest of David Conner as an independent non-executive director, declared by our Board members.
The Committee also includes leading to his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2016. oversight of Board effectiveness and governance issues as well David brings further global banking experience and strong as the monitoring of corporate governance developments and riskcredentials to the Board alongside valuable experience emerging best practice.
ofworking across many of our Asian markets.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference can be Following Ruth Marklands decision to step down from the found at sc.
com Board after 12 years as an independent non-executive director, the Committee provided oversight of the process to identify We made a number of changes to the Committees Naguib Kheraj as Ruths successor as SiD.
membership during the year, reflecting changes to the wider The Committee, in conjunction with the other independent composition of the Board.
Christine Hodgson was appointed non-executive directors, were provided with a detailed update asa member of the Committee in May 2015 having succeeded of the new Management Team as part of the simplification Ruth Markland as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Ruthstepped down from the Committee on 15 June 2015, following Naguib Kherajs appointment as Senior Independent The Committee considered the findings of the 2015 Board Director SID.
Jasmine Whitbread was appointed to the effectiveness review and the recommendations for enhancing Committee on 1 January 2016 to replace Paul Skinner, who Board governance.
It particularly focused on the overall shesucceeded as Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct composition of the Board and its committees and the likely Committee on the same date.
Lars Thunell stepped down from impact of the Senior Managers Regime.
the Committee and the Board on 31 January 2016.
Biographical details of the members can be found on pages 62 to 65.
Chairmans succession Committee activities The Committee has oversight of the process for conducting the search to identify a new Chairman to succeed Sir John Peace.
In 2015, the Committee continued to play an important role This began in June 2015, following the appointment of Naguib inoverseeing the future shape and composition of the Board.
Naguib is leading the Chairmans succession Further changes were made to the composition of our process, as SiD, and chairing the Committee when considering independent non-executive directors as part of the ongoing all matters relating to the Chairmans succession.
The Committee Board succession plan.
This was aimed at streamlining the is being assisted on a joint mandate by two search firms, Board while ensuring a balance of tenure, diversity, geographic Russell Reynolds Associates and Lygon Group.
We confirm that knowledge and industry experience.
Russell Reynolds Associates is a supplier of senior resourcing The Committee led the succession process which resulted inthe appointment of Bill Winters as Group Chief Executive.
Much of the detail was set out in last years Governance 1.
The reorganisation of our business was implemented on 1 October 2015, and will be reflected in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 94 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report to the Group, however, the Lygon Group has no other Situational conflicts connection with the Group.
As part of the Committees remit, it reappraises the The Committee spent time agreeing the approach and the authorisations previously provided to directors for those parameters: approved the characteristics and criteria which situations in which he she had, or potentially could have in the formed the job description: reviewed the research on potential future, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the interests candidates prepared by the search firms and participated in of the Group.
We have briefed our regulators and Committee effectiveness review major shareholders on our process and timelines, recognising that it will take time to find the right individual.
The process The Committee considered the quality and volume of the remains live and we will provide further information in line with information we receive and the mechanisms used to ensure that our disclosure obligations.
the Board as a whole is kept up to date regarding both executive and independent non-executive succession planning.
In both Annual re-election of directors cases, the Committee was satisfied that these were appropriate and should continue to be an area of focus going forward.
The review of the performance of each of the directors seeking annual re-election at this years Annual General Meeting was carried out by the Chairman in 2015.
For more detail on the process see page 75.
Board diversity policy The Board remains committed to its Board diversity policy, which includes our general approach to diversity and specifically sets out the intention to increase the representation of women on the Standard Chartered PLC Board to 25 per cent by 2017.
While we set out our clear ambition in respect to gender representation, the policy is intended to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense remains a central feature of the Board.
Reaching this objective remains front of mind, while ensuring that all appointments continue to be made on merit, with the prime consideration of maintaining and enhancing the Boards overall effectiveness.
We believe that a highly effective Board is about chemistry and the right behaviours, underpinned by robust processes.
The Board comprises individuals who have diverse skills, knowledge and experiences that combine toprovide different perspectives.
To review our Board diversity policy, visit sc.
com The Committee made good progress in overseeing plans toachieve its gender diversity objective, as a result of both a reduction in the overall size of the Board and the appointment inApril 2015 of Gay Huey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread.
Despite the retirement of Ruth Markland from the Board at the end of December 2015, the representation of women on the Board has increased from 11 per cent at the end of 2014 to 20 per cent at 23 February 2016.
The Committee will consider the Board diversity policy in the lead up to 2017 to assess its progress and in light of Lord Davies recent five-year summary report on the representation of women of FTSE 100 boards.
We are mindful of the recommendation that voluntary targets be increased to 33 per cent by 2020.
The representation of women on the new Management Team, the most senior leadership positions in the Group, below the Board, is very encouraging at 33 per cent.
In making recommendations for appointment to the Board, the Committee supported the search firms voluntary code of conduct.
The Committee worked with Lygon Group and Russell Reynolds Associates during the year.
Both search firms are signatories to the voluntary code of conduct and are committed to supporting us in achieving our objectives and wider Board composition ambitions.
95 Corporate governance Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Simon Lowth Chair of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Dear Shareholder between the Group and external agencies in areas of common interest in the UK, the US and elsewhere throughout the This is the first full report of the Board Financial Crime Groups footprint, for example, in the area of combating human Risk Committee following its establishment on 1 January trafficking.
The Board took the decision to form this Committee to increase oversight and scrutiny on the effectiveness of We have spent the majority of our time monitoring, reviewing the Groups policies and programmes to address financial and providing oversight and challenge to the Groups major crime.
Together with the strengthening of the Groups programmes, including the Financial Crime Risk Mitigation financial crime compliance FCC function, its formation Programme and our ongoing focus on improving and enhancing demonstrates our commitment to strong conduct and entity and new controls, which are critical to the delivery of compliance at all levels of the organisation.
significant and lasting enhancements to our FCC capabilities.
We looked at the adequacy of resourcing of the Group teams Given that the oversight of financial crime compliance requires responsible for sanctions and anti-money laundering systems aspecific mix of skills and experience, it was decided to and controls, the strength of leadership of the FCC team, led compose the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee not only bythe Groups Head of FCC and the implications of the growth ofindependent non-executive directors but also of four external of the function.
We benefited from Group Internal Audits advisor members.
Their calibre, experience and expertise has independent view of the Groups control environment relating enabled the Committee to add perspective and allowed for tofinancial crime risk.
We also reviewed the remediation deeper technical review, challenge and engagement on areas programmes being undertaken by the Group in response to within its remit.
I would like to thank and commend the external regulatory orders.
To achieve what the Board intends in this advisors, Lazaro Campos, Boon Hui Khoo, Frances Townsend area requires an ongoing deep and consistent communication and Sir Iain Lobban.
They are outstanding leaders in their field with staff on why combating financial crime is important.
The and bring valuable and varied experience in global payments, Committee has welcomed the fresh and effective materials law enforcement, security and intelligence.
Their appointments produced by the Group through the Whole Story campaign, are a clear signal of how important financial crime compliance which is embedding with staff the core argument that isto the Group and how serious we are about getting it right.
combating financial crime is at the heart of a good banking As a result of the linkages with other aspects of conduct, risk business, can prevent harmful human consequences and is and compliance it has also been valuable to benefit from the integral to the culture of the Group.
input of Naguib Kheraj Chair of the Audit Committee, Christine Ruth Markland and Lars Thunell stepped down from the Hodgson and, before her, Ruth Markland Chairs of the Committee on 31 December 2015 and 31 January 2016 Remuneration Committee, Lars Thunell, and joining us this respectively.
I would like to thank Ruth and Lars for their year, David Conner as Chairs of the Risk Committee.
They valuable contribution to the Committee since its inception.
contributed their individual expertise as well as facilitating GayHuey Evans will join the Committee on 1 March 2016. effective coordination with the agendas of those committees.
During the year, we have benefited from induction and training on specific aspects of financial crime and insight from FCC experts and functions as well as client-facing staff.
The Committees independent non-executive directors and external advisor members have also been able to visit some of our Simon Lowth markets to observe first hand operations on the ground and Chair of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee meet staff at all levels.
We have spent time analysing trends and developments in financial crime risks and expectations and requirements of our regulators.
Our oversight has encompassed anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and sanctions compliance efforts.
We have been pleased to see the growing collaboration 96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Directors report Who sits on the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Scheduled Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2015 included: meetings Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Company S J Lowth Chair 4 4 Secretary: Group General Counsel: Director, Compliance, People and Communications: and Global Head, Financial Crime D P Conner appointed on 1 January 2016 N A Compliance.
C M Hodgson 4 4 As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee meeting, N Kheraj 4 4 the Committee has private members only meetings.
Directors who stepped down in 2015 2016 R Markland Stepped down on 31 December 2015 4 4 1 Dr L H Thunell Stepped down on 31 January 2016 1 4 External Advisor Members L Campos 4 4 B H Khoo 4 4 1.
Dr Lars Thunell was unable to attend three scheduled meetings due to prior Sir Iain Lobban 3 3 commitments 2.
Frances Townsend was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due to a prior 2 F Townsend 3 4 commitment Committee composition Boon Hui Khoo The Committee was established on 1 January 2015.
Khoo Boon Hui served as president of INTERPOL from 2008 to2012, and as chairman of INTERPOLs steering committee The Committee is chaired by Simon Lowth and includes the addressing the global trafficking of illicit goods and Chairs of the Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee and counterfeiting from 2012 to 2014.
He was the commissioner Remuneration Committee.
More details on the independent ofthe Singapore Police Force between 1997 and 2010, and is non-executive directors can be found in their biographies on currently an advisor to INTERPOL, senior fellow of Singapores pages 62 to 65.
Ministry of Home Affairs, non-executive director of the Temasek In addition, the Committee includes four external advisor Foundation and non-executive director of Singapores Casino members who are neither directors nor employees of the Group Regulatory Authority.
but who have skills relevant to the Committee and whose expert input is valuable.
These four external advisor members Frances Fragos Townsend have been appointed to support the work of the Committee Frances served as assistant to the US President George W andprovide a valuable external perspective.
The biographies Bush for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism until 2008. ofthe external advisor members are set out below: She is currently executive vice president for international affairs at MacAndrews and Forbes, an investment holding company, Sir Iain Lobban KCMG CB and an independent non-executive director of FreeportSir Iain was director of the UK security and intelligence McMoran, Scientific Games and Western Union.
organisation, the Government Communications Headquarters GCHQ, from mid 2008 to late 2014.
Prior to assuming the Induction and training position of director, Sir Iain served as director-general of Tailored induction and ongoing engagement programmes have operations for GCHQ from 2004 to 2008.
Sir Iain specialises been provided to each of the four external advisor members.
incounter-terrorism, cyber security and the prevention and These programmes have also been made available to the detection of serious crime.
He was a member of GCHQs Board independent non-executive director members of the for 13 years with half that period as its chair.
During his tenure Committee, who have attended a number of these sessions.
atGCHQ, Sir Iain established rigorous governance systems built around corporate risks, compliance and ethics.
In 2015, the programmes have been run over a period of three days and consisted of meetings with senior executives across Lazaro Campos the Group to familiarise the external advisor members with the structure, the operations and the business of the Group, the Lazaro was chief executive officer of the Society for Worldwide activities and objectives of the financial crime compliance Interbank Financial Telecommunication SWIFT, the memberfunction, the Groups Financial Crime Risk Mitigation owned global cooperative for the secure exchange of information Programme FCRMP and the Groups commitments under its regarding financial transactions, from April 2007 until July 2012.
1 2 and 2014 regulatory settlements with the US Authorities.
2012 Prior to this, Lazaro ran the banking division of SWIFT from 2003 until 2007.
Lazaro is currently a non-executive independent director of miiCard Ltd a start-up offering digital trust and online identity verification based on bank account data, advisor to the 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and advisor to the Arab NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the NewYork County District Attorneys Office DANY, the United States Department Monetary Funds Arab Regional Payment System ARPS.
ofJustice DOJ and the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 2.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS 97 Corporate governance Board Financial Crime Risk Committee In addition to their visits to the UK head office of the Group, The Committee receives regular reports from the Global Head each of the external advisor members visited a key market of Financial Crime Compliance in his capacity as the Groups outside the UK in 2015.
During those visits, they met with senior Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
This has included the executives and members of the local financial crime compliance annual Group Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report teams and the regional and country chief executive officers.
and the Global Risk Assessment.
The Group General Counsel has also provided periodic reports Committee activities to the Committee on any significant regulatory or government The Committee focuses on financial crime compliance matters investigations which have taken place relating to financial crime across the Group.
As part of the Boards commitment to further strengthen its In addition, the Chair of the Committee has had regular oversight of all aspects of conduct across the Group, the meetings with the Group Chairman: the Director, Compliance, Committee replaced and has taken over the work of the Board People and Communication: the Group General Counsel, and Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee at the beginning the Global Head, Financial Crime Compliance to discuss of 2015, as well as some areas of responsibility previously financial crime risk outside the scheduled Committee meetings overseen by the Audit Committee and the Board Risk in 2015.
Committee, where this is appropriate in the context of financial crime compliance oversight.
Committee linkages In its first year, the Committee has overseen the Groups Where there is a perceived overlap of responsibilities between progress in achieving enhanced standards in relation to the the Committee and other Board committees, such as the Board management of financial crime compliance and has provided Risk Committee, the Audit Committee or the Brand, Values and valuable oversight in connection with the Groups financial crime Conduct Committee, the respective Committee Chairs have the compliance controls and procedures.
The Committee has discretion to agree which Committee is the most appropriate tracked the progress of the Group in continuing to meet the toaddress that responsibility.
There is clear mapping of such objectives, timelines and obligations of the FCRMP and the US overlapping items to ensure each Committee focuses on its SRP.
Regular updates are provided to the Committee on these area of responsibility.
The linkages between Committees are issues at each meeting.
The Committee has agreed areas of focus which include Committee effectiveness review overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups policies, procedures, systems, controls and assurance arrangements The Committee undertook an internally facilitated effectiveness forfinancial crime compliance matters including anti-money review in the second half of 2015. laundering, sanctions compliance, prevention of bribery and To support the effectiveness review, Committee members were corruption and prevention of tax crime.
asked to provide their thoughts and feedback on progress In particular, it has provided ongoing Board level oversight of made in the Committees first year and thoughts on the the FCRMP a Group-wide initiative to identify and embed best Committees overall effectiveness since its inception.
The practices in the field of financial crime compliance, the Groups feedback was then discussed by the Committee.
While the 1 2 commitments under its 2012 and 2014 settlement agreements Committee members believed that the Committee had been with the US Authorities the US SRP and the broader performing well and was already proving to be effective, there programme of enhancements being introduced across the were suggestions on ways the Committee could improve, which Group in relation to financial crime compliance including those have been factored into an agreed action plan for 2016. relating specifically to customer due diligence processes, transaction monitoring and other core controls.
The Committee has identified and discussed emerging financial crime compliance risks and sought and received assurance from executive management on how the Group intends to address such risks.
The Committee has also considered the Groups risk tolerance statements in relation to financial crime compliance.
Regular reports and updates were provided to the Committee by the relevant executives in 2015.
These executives include the Director, Compliance, People and Communication: the Global Head: Financial Crime Compliance: the Group General Counsel: and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the NewYork County District Attorneys Office DANY, the United States Department ofJustice DOJ and the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 2.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS 98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015
