SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 34 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board evaluation process and will be reviewed in light of any changes to the Companys strategy.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
As previously reported, the Company became subject to the AIFMD in July 2014.
The Company entered into a management agreement with Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited on 22 July 2014.
In addition, the Company appointed State Street Trustees Limited as its depositary, in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
The non-executive Directors review the performance of its investment manager, Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited, on a regular basis.
Lynn Fordham is now employed by AAM and seconded to Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited ASVGM, though she retains her executive Director role at SVG Capital plc and is CEO of ASVGM.
The Company has a number of rights and protections under the terms of a shareholders agreement in respect of its holdings in ASVGM and Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited ASVGA and together ASVG.
There are also a number of important matters that are wholly reserved for the independent Directors of SVG Capital plc, including but not limited to all decisions relating to the continued appointment of ASVGM as the Companys investment manager and the level of its management fee.
Compliance statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance statement, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 40 and Going-concern set out on page 38, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on risk management and internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the principles of theCode, save in respect of the external evaluation of the Board see page 35.
These principles are: leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Information on each of these themes can be found in this Corporate Governance Report, the Risks section on page 8, the Report of the Directors on page 39 and the Remuneration Report on page 42.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for presenting fair, balanced and understandable information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, in annual and half-yearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
Itmonitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company including those powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
Further details of the authorities to be sought at the AGM with respect to issuing or buying back shares can be found on pages 86 to 92.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence At 31 January 2015, there were four non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Lynn Fordham, who was an employee of Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited formerly known as SVG Advisers Limited until 31 May 2013 and has been an employee ofAAM since then, continues in her role as Chief Executive of the Company.
She is seconded to Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited byAAM.
Profiles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 32 and 33.
The Board considers each of StephenDuckett, Helen Mahy and David Robins to be independent.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group ofindividuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision-making.
However, there are plans to appoint an additional director.
Senior Independent Director David Robins is the Senior Independent Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 35 Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of non-executive Directors willcontinue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
The Company has a policy of annual re-election for each Director.
The Companys articles provide that in addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may byspecial resolution remove any Director.
The Company may by ordinary resolution elect a Director.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
This includes a detailed briefing from the CompanySecretary on the running of the Board covering such matters as terms of reference, governance practices, risk management and oversight, and calendar of events.
In addition, meetings are arranged with various members of ASVG to facilitate a better understanding of the business.
New Board members are provided with one-on-one risk oversight and governance training and orientation.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
The suitability and adequacy of training that is made available to Directors isassessed as part of the performance evaluation process.
It was assessed as adequate in the most recent evaluation.
Performance evaluation The Board performance evaluation at the end of 2013 identified that the Board should conduct: an independent evaluation of the performance of ASVG as its investment manager: a review of the operation of the Board committees: a detailed analysis of the risks of outsourcing investment management.
With respect to the independent evaluation of the performance of the Companys investment manager, at the Companys November strategy meeting, the non-executive Directors held a session separate from management where the performance of the manager was considered.
It was agreed that the performance was satisfactory and would be reviewed again in the first quarter of 2015.
During 2014, the Board reviewed the composition of its committees.
Mr Sykes stepped down from the Audit Committee to satisfy the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The other Board committees were rationalised into one committee, the Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Details of the role and composition of this Committee is contained on page 37.
The Boards independent risk oversight consultant attended two Board meetings during the period and co-ordinated a detailed review by the Board of the risks of outsourcing investment management services to a non-Group company.
The results of this exercise are summarised on page 30.
In 2014, the Board has again adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
This year, the evaluation process was completed and reviewed by the Board in November 2014.
The process was led by Andrew Sykes.
The process involved compiling a discussion guide which covered designated topics, including Board operation, strategy, corporate governance and risk management.
A separate questionnaire was sent to members of the management team.
A written report was produced by the Chairman, and sent to Board members and discussed at the following Board meeting.
Overall the evaluation process confirmed that the composition and operation of the Board was satisfactory.
It was agreed that it would be appropriate to consider appointing one more non-executive Director to the Board.
The evaluation process specifically addressed diversity, including gender, within the Board.
The Board was in agreement that it had an appropriate level of diversity, but that this should be kept under review.
The Board has considered carefully whether the evaluation of its performance should be externally facilitated at least once every three years.
It was decided that external evaluation was not appropriate in 2014, given the recent changes in composition of the Board and the size of the Board.
The evaluation noted that the new risk management programme was work in progress but that this should continue.
Succession was another area that the Board agreed it should focus on.
The next Board performance evaluation is scheduled for late 2015.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 36 Corporate governance continued Information flows ASVG and the CEO provide written reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specific matters.
TheChairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements, and the Companys risk management and control results.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Insurance and indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Officers under a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by United Kingdom law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conflicts of interest The Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest totheBoard as they arise for consideration and approval.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances around them, and if considered appropriate, are approved.
TheBoard may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conflicts if deemed appropriate.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to Committees.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 31 January 2015 may befound on pages 36 and 37 and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be foundbelow.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Stephen Duckett, consists of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least four times each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing the methodologies used in valuing the Companys investments by underlying fund managers, monitoring changes in accounting practices and policies and reviewing decisions with a significant element of judgement.
Inaddition, the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the Companys risk monitoring programme, internal audit processes and regulatory compliance arrangements are appropriate.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for the oversight of the external audit function.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee provides confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the Board can be satisfied that information presented in the Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2015, the Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including those communicated by the Auditors during their reporting: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation of investments The investment portfolio is reviewed regularly by the Companys investment manager and theBoard.
The valuation of investments is undertaken in accordance with theaccounting policies, disclosed in note 11 to the accounts on page 64.
Going concern, in particular ensuring The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective, risk management theCompany can meet calls due to policies, capital management policies and procedures and the nature of the portfolio.
Cashflow projections are prepared using a number of scenarios on a regular basis by the Companys investment manager and reviewed by the Board.
As part of this process, the Boardchallenges the assumptions and methodologies used in preparing the projections.
Asa result, the Directors have determined that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation ofthe financial statements.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 37 The Audit Committee has a primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts were considered.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of communications and work with ASVG, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their re-appointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The current audit firmhas audited the Companys financial statements since 1996.
The Company put out the role of auditors to tender in 2012 and the incumbent auditors were re-appointed.
The Companys year ended 31 January 2015 is the third of a five-year maximum term thatthe current audit partner has been in the role for the Company.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out on page 28.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
Meetings The Board held 14 meetings in the 13 month period to 31 January 2015.
These included the five scheduled Board meetings and then anumber of ad hoc meetings to consider matters such as the tender offers.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Remuneration Corporate Governance and Audit Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Stephen Duckett 12 14 4 4 3 3 Lynn Fordham 13 14 Caroline Goodall 12 12 3 3 2 2 David Robins 14 14 4 4 3 3 Helen Mahy 6 6 2 2 1 1 Andrew Sykes 14 14 3 3 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Mrs Fordham missed one ad hoc meeting due to illness.
Mr Duckett was unable to make two ad hoc meetings called on short notice.
In the event that a Director does notattend, theChairman and orthe Chief Executive will contact him or her prior to and following the meeting to keep him or her apprised and seekviews on the matters to bediscussed.
Diversity Details of the Companys diversity policy can be found on page 28.
Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Given the small size of the Board, it was decided that all non-executive Directors and the Chairman should sit on the Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
This Committee is chaired by Helen Mahy and met three times during the period.
Remuneration Prior to the sale of ASVG to Aberdeen Asset Management plc, the Committee determined remuneration policy throughout the SVGGroup and operated the Companys Share Awards Schemes.
Following this sale, the Company has no control ofpayments to MrsFordham or any other former employees of the Group.
Accordingly, the Committees role is limited to reviewing the level of fees payable to non-executive Directors and operating the Companys Share Award Schemes as they relate to historic awards.
The Board considers each member of the Committee to be independent.
The Committee considered remuneration matters at two of its meetings during theperiod ended 31 January 2015.
It reviewed the Remuneration Report prior to its publication and also reviewed the satisfaction of performance conditions attaching to the two sets of LTIP awards that vested during the period.
In addition, it approved thesimplification of Directors fees as disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations and Governance The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skill and experience, and on individual appointments, leads the process and makes recommendations to the Board.
It also monitors the Companys compliance with corporate governance guidelines.
The Committee considered an evaluation of the balanceof skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board succession planning and the appointment ofHelen Mahy.
It reviewed the corporate governance disclosures made in the 2013 Report and Accounts.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 38 Corporate governance continued Relations with Shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail Shareholders is important for the prospects ofthe Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of Shareholders views to the Board.
The Board may also undertake shareholder perceptions research from time to time.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to Shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders toquestion the Chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to Shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to Shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year end is valuable.
The notice of AGM at page 92 sets out the business of the meeting.
Going concern The Companys activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11, the Chief Executives report on pages 12 and 13 and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to31.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review onpage15.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk profile.
Adescription of the Companys risks and risk management framework are also outlined in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 31.
The Company finished the year with net cash of 38 million and has access to an additional 300 million through the Revolving Credit Facility to December 2015.
This provides adequate coverage of the 367 million of uncalled commitments to the investment portfolio.
In light of the Companys financial resources, the Directors believe that the Company is well positioned to manage its business risks within the Companys risk appetite and tolerance successfully, despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook, and, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Liquidity and solvency risks are monitored on an ongoing basis via the Companys risk management framework.
This includes formally defining the ASVG personnel responsible for assessing and monitoring risks, defining an appropriate level of risk assessment rigour to be applied, formal reporting on the Companys residual retained risk status, a formal process to define the level of independent assurance onthe risk assessment process and representations and Board oversight of the risk management framework for solvency and liquidity risk.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the 13 month period ended 31 January 2015, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
