BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHN REEVE ARTHUR COPPLE RICHARD JEWSON John Reeve, Chairman, was Arthur Copple was appointed Richard Jewson was appointed a appointed a director in 1992. a director in 2011.
He first worked He was formerly executive specialised in the investment in the timber and building chairman of the Willis Group, company sector for over 30 material supply industry, group managing director of years.
He was a partner at Kitcat becoming managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and & Aitken, an executive director Jewson, the builders merchants, a member of the boards of the of Smith New Court PLC and a for twelve years from 1974, Association of British Insurers managing director and then managing director and the International Insurance of Merrill Lynch.
and chairman of its parent Society.
He is a director of a company Meyer International number of other companies.
PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Tritax Big Box REIT PLC and a non-executive director of other private companies.
JUNE fide MOLLER LESLEY SHERRATT DAVID WEBSTER June fide Moller was appointed a Lesley Sherratt was appointed David Webster was appointed director in 2005.
She is a former a director in 2015.
His career managing director of Carlton formerly Investment Director started in corporate finance Communications PLC and was for the Save & Prosper and at Samuel Montagu before previously a non-executive Fleming Flagship range of becoming a founder and director of J Sainsbury PLC, funds, and CEO & CIO of Ark subsequently chairman of Cookson Group PLC, BT PLC Asset Management Ltd. She has Safeway PLC from which he and Derwent London PLC.
over twenty years experience retired in 2004.
He is currently investing in the financial sector, a non-executive director of including investment trusts, and Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has served as a director and Chair of a wide range of other business US Small Companies Investment interests including membership Trust.
She is currently a director of the Appeals Committee of of a private foundation, lectures the Panel on Takeovers and in global business ethics at King's Mergers.
He was previously College London and is the author chairman of InterContinental of 'Can Microfinance Work?
How Hotels Group PLC and a nonto Improve its Ethical Balance executive director of Reed and Effectiveness'.
All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination committees.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
