STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Committees report to SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING THE shareholders on the effectiveness of the external audit ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS process and how this has been assessed for the year During the year, the Audit Quality Review 'AQR' team within ended 31 December 2015. the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC' reported to the Audit Committee that it had concluded a review of the audit of the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Company performed by Ernst & Young in respect of the year to The Company has established a separately chaired 31 December 2014.
The FRC's activities include the independent Audit Committee the Committee whose duties include inspection of the overall quality of the auditing function in the UK, considering and recommending to the Board for approval the and the AQR team carries out a number of reviews of company contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements, audits annually.
The Audit Committee carefully considered and providing an opinion as to whether the Annual Report, the AQR's findings and discussed them with Ernst & Young.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and The findings were noted for subsequent years but were not provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess considered significant in the context of the audit as a whole.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews the external auditors report The Committee also considered significant issues and areas thereon and is responsible for reviewing and forming an of key audit risk in respect of the Annual Report and Financial opinion on the effectiveness of the external audit process Statements, as outlined below.
The Committee reviewed the and audit quality.
Other duties include reviewing the external audit plan at an early stage and concluded that the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and appropriate areas of audit risk relevant to the Company had ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and been identified and that suitable audit procedures had been standards, as set out in more detail below.
The Terms of put in place to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys statements as a whole would be free of material misstatements.
co. uk The table below sets out the key areas of risk identified and also explains how these were addressed by the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The two planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings Significant Issue How the issue was addressed to approve the half yearly and annual results.
Verification of the The Committee reviews reports from its existence of the service providers on key controls over the COMPOSITION assets in the portfolio assets of the Company.
Any significant All the directors are members of the Committee, which issues are reported by the Manager to the is chaired by Mr Jewson.
The Board considers that the Committee.
members of the Committee have sufficient recent and The valuation of the The Committee reviews detailed portfolio relevant financial experience for the Committee to discharge investment portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a the year and receives confirmation from member of the Committee to enable him to be kept fully the Manager that the pricing basis is informed of any issues which may arise.
The audit includes a check of pricing back to source data to confirm RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF that the correct valuation basis has THE EXTERNAL AUDIT been applied in accordance with the accounting policies adopted, as disclosed During the year the principal activities of the in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
Committee included: Going concern Having considered the Companys considering and recommending to the Board for investment objective, risk management approval the contents of the half yearly and annual policies and cash flow projections financial statements and reviewing the external the Committee is satisfied that the auditors report thereon: Company has adequate resources and reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost an appropriate financial structure to effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the continue in operational existence for the external auditor: foreseeable future.
reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval Compliance with Ongoing compliance with the the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external Sections 1158 eligibility criteria is monitored on auditor and the terms of their engagement: and 1159 of the a regular basis by the board.
reviewing and approving the external auditors plan Corporation Tax for the financial year, with a focus on the identification Act 2010 of areas of audit risk, and consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: The verification of The Committee reviews income investment income forecasts and receives explanations reviewing the quality of the audit engagement from the Manager for any variations or partner and the audit team, and making a significant movements from previous recommendation to the Board with respect to forecasts and prior year numbers.
the re-appointment of the auditor: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys The provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and accounting policies: and administration services is delegated to the Companys ensuring the adequacy of the internal control Manager, who sub-delegates fund accounting to a third party systems and standards.
service provider, and the provision of custody services is contracted to HSBC.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 27 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier acted in this role since 2003 pursuant to a competitive tender of any non-audit service and whether there is any threat to process which took place at that time.
There has not been a their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the subsequent tender process.
The appointment of the auditor audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes at least annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, standards in order to protect independence and objectivity providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
The last five As part of this review, the Committee also receives information yearly audit rotation took place in 2012.
The Committee about policies and processes for maintaining independence is aware that impending EU legislation will require listed and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements from companies to rotate their auditor every 10 years.
Under the the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation transitional arrangements for firms where the tenure was of audit partners and staff, and details of any relationships between 11 and 20 years on the effective date under the new between the audit firm and its staff and the Company, as EU rules, there will be a grace period of nine years after the well as an overall confirmation from the auditor of their enactment of the EU legislation.
Accordingly, based upon the independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, new legislation, Ernst & Young will not be able to act as auditor the Committee has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is to the Company after June 2023 so the last financial year that independent of the Company and the Manager.
they could serve as auditor would end on 31 December 2022.
The Committee has not decided when to put the audit out to CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL tender but will keep this matter under review.
There are no REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report auditor.
Other non-audit fees of 1,500 excluding VAT paid and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process to Ernst & Young LLP relate to their services in the electronic requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One filing of tax returns.
of the key governance requirements of a Companys financial ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EXTERNAL statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to AUDIT PROCESS be fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a good Report and Financial Statements fulfils these requirements.
understanding of the progress and efficiency of the audit.
As a result of the work performed, the Committee has Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also 31 December 2015, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced sought from relevant involved parties, notably the audit and understandable and provides the information necessary partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are business model and strategy.
The Committee has reported considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions the Committee without representatives of the Manager in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors being present.
The effectiveness of the Board and the Manager in the external audit process is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification and resolution of any process errors or control breaches that might impact the Companys NAVs and accounting records.
It is also assessed by reference to Richard Jewson how successfully any issues in respect of areas of accounting Chairman judgement are identified and resolved, the quality and Audit Committee timeliness of papers analysing these judgements, the Board 23 February 2016 and the Managers approach to the value of independent audit, the booking of any audit adjustments arising and the timely provision of draft public documents, for review by the auditor and the Committee.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
