CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of directors of a company looks after shareholders interests and Operation of the Board by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and hold the directors responsible for the stewardship of a executing the Companys strategy and for closely companys affairs, delegating authority and responsibility monitoring risks.
There is a formal schedule of matters to to the directors to manage the company on their behalf and be specifically approved by the Board and it has delegated holding them accountable for its performance.
investment management, within clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, to Investec Fund Managers Limited The Board considers the practice of good governance to IFM and the administration of the business to Investec be an integral part of the way it manages the Company Asset Management Limited IAM.
The Board reviews the and is committed to maintaining high standards of financial performance of the Company at Board meetings and sets reporting, transparency and business integrity.
the objectives for the Manager.
As Temple Bar is a UK-listed company the Boards principal The Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary governance reporting obligation is in relation to the UK is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
However, it is recognised that investment companies or removal of the nominated representative of the Company have special circumstances which have an impact on their Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
An investment company typically has no employees and the roles of CEO, portfolio manager, The content and presentation of Board papers circulated administration, accounting and company secretarial tend to before each meeting contain sufficient information on the be outsourced to a third party.
The Association of Investment financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of Companies has therefore drawn up its own set of guidelines IFM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe known as the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Code issued in February 2013 and updated in 2015, which Biographies of those directors in office at the date of recognises the nature of investment companies by focusing signing of the financial statements are set out on page 18. on matters such as board independence and the review Martin Riley stood down as a director on 30 March 2015 of management and other third party contracts.
The FRC and Lesley Sherratt was appointed as a director with effect has endorsed the AIC Code and confirmed that companies from 1 April 2015.
There were seven Board meetings, two which report against the AIC Code will be meeting their audit committee meetings and two nomination committee obligations in relation to the UK Corporate Governance meetings held during the year and the attendance by the Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the FCAs Listing Rules.
directors was as follows: The Board believes that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code will provide better information to shareholders.
Number of meetings attended The Company has complied with the recommendations Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee of the AIC Code which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK John Reeve 7 2 2 Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Arthur Copple 7 2 2 the role of the chief executive June fide Moller 7 2 2 executive directors remuneration Richard Jewson 7 2 2 the need for an internal audit function Martin Riley 2 1 The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to Lesley Sherratt 4 1 the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys David Webster 7 2 2 day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no retired 30 March 2015 appointed 1 April 2015 executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit committee Re-election of directors The audit committee is a formally constituted committee Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the of the Board with defined terms of reference.
Its role first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are and responsibilities are set out in the Report of the Audit subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the Committee on page 27.
The Board is satisfied that members appointment of each director is reviewed by other members of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The auditor, who to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are the Board has identified as being independent, is invited not appointed for specified terms.
Because of the nature of to attend the audit committee meeting at which the annual an investment trust the Board believes that the contribution accounts are considered and any other meetings that the and independence of a director is not diminished by long committee deems necessary.
The committee is chaired by service and, conversely, that a more detailed knowledge of Mr Jewson, the Senior Independent Director.
the Company and its business has a beneficial impact.
Nomination committee The Board has carefully considered the position of each of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for A nomination committee comprising all the directors has them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors been established to oversee a formal review procedure continues to be effective and to display an undiminished governing the appointment of new directors and to enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and Diversity knowledge.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to The committee is also responsible for assessing on an annual take this into consideration during the recruitment and basis the individual performance of directors and for making appointment process.
Typically, the Board seeks to ensure recommendations as to whether they should remain in office.
that there is a suitable balance between directors with industrial commercial and traditional City backgrounds.
Management engagement committee However, the Board is committed to appointing the most As all the directors are fully independent of the management appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms company, the Board as a whole fulfils the function of a of diversity, and therefore no targets have been set against management engagement committee.
Independence of the directors Induction and training Each of the directors is independent of any association with New directors appointed to the Board are provided with the Manager and has no other relationships or circumstances an induction programme which is tailored to the particular which might be perceived to interfere with the exercise circumstances of the appointee.
Regular briefings are of independent judgement.
Three of the six directors Mr provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters Reeve, Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller have served on and the directors receive other relevant training as required.
the Board for more than nine years from the date of their Individual directors may seek independent advice at the first election, but given the nature of the Company as an expense of the Company within certain limits.
investment trust and the strongly independent mind-set of Ongoing evaluation the individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the view that all of the directors can be considered to be independent.
On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a clear performance, together with that of the audit and nomination distinction between the activities of an investment trust and committees and the effectiveness and contribution of the a conventional trading company.
An investment trust has individual directors, including the Chairman, within the no employees or executive directors, the only significant context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses relationship being with the Manager.
In overseeing this an assessment of how cohesively these bodies work as a relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids whole as well as the performance of the individuals within the understanding, judgement, objectivity and independence them.
In 2013 the Board also employed the services of the of the directors and in no way detracts from any of these Institute of Directors to carry out an external evaluation of qualities.
The directors have a range of business and its performance.
On the basis of these reviews the Board has financial skills and experience relevant to the direction of the concluded that it has an appropriate balance of skills and is Company.
Mr Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Shareholder communications The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted Company communicates with shareholders is through half to an independent reputable custodian with whom the yearly reports and annual reports.
The information contained holdings are regularly reconciled.
therein is supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can The Board largely delegates responsibility for communication provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against with shareholders to the management company and, through material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there feedback, both from the Manager and the Company's is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet stockbroker, expects to be able to develop an understanding the requirements of the AIC Code.
Members of the Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose of discussing matters in relation The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal to the operation and prospects of the Company.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern reporting period and to the date of this report.
In addition, special arrangements have been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme investors to participate fully at AGMs.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that face the Company.
Accountability, internal controls and audit The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all documents released by the Company, including the Annual Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRC's document 'Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting'.
The directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the control process the Board has requested the Manager to confirm annually that it has conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within IFM which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
