GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued % of Ordinary share Shareholder voting rights Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 7.26% Alliance Trust plc 6.94% Brewin Dolphin Limited 6.81% Old Mutual plc 6.59% Investec Limited 6.26% HSBC Holdings plc 5.61% See page 32 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary shares.
Since 31 March 2015 to the date of this report, the Company has been informed that the voting rights held by Investec Limited had reduced to 5.09% due to a change in their terms and conditions regarding voting rights to discretionary client holdings.
Corporate Governance Report The Board of directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2012 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC the AIC Code, which established the framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust companies.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The directors believe that during the period under review they have complied with the Main Principles and relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Compliance Statement The directors acknowledge that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Code in the year ended 31 March 2015.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Nomination Committee.
During the year, this function was carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
However, the Board has decided to introduce a Nomination Committee for the year ending 31 March 2016 to ensure there is additional focus on succession planning in the future.
C. 3.5 & C. 3.6 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee are carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to the Manager.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
