GOVERNANCE Directors Caroline Burton, joined the Board of Simon Marrison, joined the Board of the Company on 6 June 2002.
She the Company on 28 September 2011. joined Guardian Royal Exchange plcs Mr Marrison is CEO of Europe and Chief Investment Department in 1973 and Investment Officer at LaSalle Investment remained with the group until 1999.
Management and has responsibility for a From 1987 she was Managing Director portfolio of over $20billion across of Guardian Asset Management and, Europe.
Mr Marrison has been based in from 1990 to 1999, Executive Director Paris since 1990 having started his Caroline Burton Simon Marrison Investments.
She is a non-executive career in London.
Until 1997 he was a director of Blackrock Smaller Companies partner at Healey & Baker now Trust plc, Liverpool Victoria Friendly Cushman & Wakefield and from 1997 Society Ltd and a member of the to 2001 he was at Rodamco where he Appointments Committee of Hermes became Country Manager for France.
She advises a joined LaSalle in 2001 as Managing number of pension funds.
Hugh Seaborn, joined the Board Suzie Procter, joined the Board of of the Company on 24 July 2007. the Company on 1 March 2013.
She He is a Chartered Surveyor and has is presently Executive Head of considerable experience in the property Institutional Client Service and a partner arena: he is currently the Chief of Cantillon Capital Management LLP.
Executive Officer of the Cadogan Estate.
She has been Director of Fixed Income He was a member of the Council and Business at Pictet International Audit Committee of the Duchy of Management, Head of Institutional Sales Hugh Seaborn Suzie Procter Lancaster until December 2013. at Invesco and Managing Director, Head From 2000 to 2009, he was Chief of Consultant Relations and Client Executive Officer of the Portman Estate Director at Lazard Asset Management.
and he is Chairman of the Estates She brings asset management Business Group and is a past experience and expertise in strategic Chairman of the Westminster Property business development and distribution.
John Glen, joined the Board of the David Watson, joined the Board of Company on 17 February 2014 and the Company on 1 April 2012.
He is is presently the Chief Executive of a Chartered Accountant and has had Buccleuch.
Previously, John was based a distinguished career in the Financial in Paris as CFO of Air Liquide and also Services Industry.
He spent 9 years served as the Vice Chairman of the as Finance Director of M&G Group plc, European Financial Reporting Group where he was a director of four equity EFRAG.
John is also a non-executive investment trusts, and most recently at John Glen David Watson director for BIC, chairman of the Board Aviva plc as Chief Finance Officer of at Alba Trees and a member of the Aviva General Insurance.
He is currently Board for Project Scotland.
John is also Deputy Chairman of Countrywide plc a member of the 2020 Climate Change and a non-executive director of Charles Group and Chairman of one of the Taylor plc, Kames Capital plc and subcommittees, which focuses on land Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where use and forestry in Scotland.
he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He became Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee on 1 January 2013.
All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
