GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued The Board has responsibility for the approval of investments in unquoted investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Portfolio Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Conflicts of Interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
A register of potential conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any new conflicts arise.
Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have both been outsourced.
The internal controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, financial and risk analyses, AIFM and Portfolio Manager reports and quarterly control reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly the responsibility of the AIFM or Portfolio Manager.
The key risks are explained in more detail in the Strategic Report on page 25.
The effectiveness of each third party providers internal controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from them.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve objectives.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control reports received from its principal service providers to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups system of internal controls in line with the Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been analysed by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a formal report from each of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board also considers the flow of information and the interaction between the third party service providers and the controls in place to ensure accuracy and completeness of the recording of assets and income.
The Board receives a report from the Portfolio Manager setting out the key controls and the results of the audit testing of these.
The Board also has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services, which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
These controls have been in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Key risks identified by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure robust internal controls and monitoring procedures are in place in respect of these risks on an ongoing basis.
