Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate Governance Report Board and committee composition Chairmans Statement As signalled a year ago, a new Non-executive Director, Carol Sergeant, was appointed to the Board with the additional Dear Shareholder responsibility of being Chairman of a new committee of the 2015 has been a year of considerable change for Tullett Prebon.
This appointment continued our Thisis not only due to the recently announced agreement to practice of diversifying the composition of the board in terms of acquire ICAPs global hybrid voice broking and information background, skill and gender.
With the last two Non-executive business IGBB.
In his first full year as CEO, John Phizackerley Director appointments, the Board has introduced technology hasinstituted a large number of changes both amongst his andrisk skills.
These add to the existing skill-base in banking, management team and to the Companys culture.
investments, markets, audit, political and regulatory fields.
Under the CEOs leadership, the Company also concluded a The Board undertakes an annual evaluation exercise, which wide-ranging strategy review in the first quarter of the year.
Ten encompasses the performance of the committees as well.
This initiatives were put in place to progress rapidly and forcefully the year, the evaluation was conducted internally: next years will be Companys competitive position and its commitment to value external, reflecting the Boards decision to conduct an external creation for shareholders.
This included a new client relationship evaluation once every three years.
The Board is comfortable that management platform, a strategic approach to technology significant progress has been made with respect to the rigour of development and a revitalised HR plan.
the discussion around the Board table, the breadth of subject matter addressed and the change in culture throughout the Group.
Culture The Board also reviews annually the independence, and through The Board is acutely conscious of its role in setting the cultural myself the performance, of each of the Non-executive Directors.
norms and tone of the organisation.
A considerable amount of Allof the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to attention has been focussed on this area during the year.
My own performance is assessed by the Senior been led by the CEO and the Board, and further entrenched with Independent Non-executive Director.
the appointment of a new Group Legal Counsel.
The new cultural initiative has been summarised in, and driven by, the instantiation Risk of five key principles: acting as a good intermediary, clean pricing, As mentioned, the Boards work in 2015 included the establishment appropriate disclosure of information, stringent checks to steer of a formal Risk Committee of the Board.
This took place in parallel clear of financial crime and the promotion of high quality market with the appointment of a dedicated Chief Risk Officer.
These principles have been, and continue to be, three meetings of that committee have already made a substantial promulgated at every level throughout the Group.
The Company difference to the quality of risk management information escalated launched a number of initiatives to enhance our commitment to to the Board.
Moreover, the risk architecture of the Group has been improved conduct and culture including : Respect@Work training: greatly improved following these changes, which have facilitated 2 Time for Change newsletters: a new tp on-line training portaland the formalising and embedding of the cultural framework.
the introduction of a robust performance managementprocess.
People and training Considerable focus has been placed on people and the general approach to communication and training.
Proactive communication in the form of Time for Change newsletter, regional Town Hall meetings and general regular updates from the CEO have improved the flow of information across the Company on important topics.
Training initiatives have been rolled out for all staff related to conduct and culture, and for specific populations with regard to risk awareness and regulatory compliance.
A Company-wide system was launched as a central hub for all training activity and this will continue to be expanded.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 27 Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Directors Stephen Pull, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has set out his report on pages 39 to 52 of this Annual Report.
Stephen Composition of the Board and I will seek to engage with shareholders during 2016 in order to The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, five put in place a new legally binding three year remuneration policy.
independent Non-executive Directors and a Non-executive Chairman.
The timing is uncertain and it is therefore unclear whether we will Over half the Board is therefore composed of independent nonapply our current Policy to part or all of 2016 or seek shareholder executive directors.
There was one Board change during 2015.
Carol approval during 2016 for a new policy.
In any event we will seek Sergeant was appointed as an independent Non-executive Director shareholder approval for a new Remuneration Policy at our AGM and Chairman of the newly formed Risk Committee on 2 July 2015. in2017 at the latest.
We expect this policy to be heavily oriented Atthe same time as the appointment of Carol Sergeant, the Board towards aligning the interests of management and shareholders decided to streamline membership ofthe Committees due to the and, subject to its completion, the successful integration of the timeconstraints of the current Board and Committee programme.
The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was, at appointment, independent Shareholder communications of the Company and the management, but, as Chairman, is not Due in part to the reporting of the conclusions of the strategy review classified as independent under the Code.
His other significant in the first quarter of 2015 and in part to the announcement of the commitments are noted in his biography on page 30. acquisition of IGBB, there has been very significant communication and engagement with shareholders over the last 12 months.
It is The Directors biographies on page 30 demonstrate the Boards depth and breadth of experience and skill.
Six of the Directors expected that, due to the continuing development of the business, including five of the Non-executive Directors have extensive 2016 will also see considerable shareholder communication and previous experience at senior levels in the financial services sector.
I am grateful to all of our shareholders for their supportand to those who have given feedback.
Two of the Directors are chartered accountants one of who was an audit partner in a major firm of accountants.
The Finance Director 2015 was another year of change and progress, distinguished by was previously Finance Director of a number of other companies.
the considerable amount of both.
The Board continues to discuss and challenge its assumptions and conclusions concerning the There is a clearly defined and documented division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive that is reviewed development of the business and will remain assiduous on behalf annually.
The primary responsibility of the Chairman is the of shareholders during 2016. leadership of the Board.
The primary responsibility of the Chief Executive is the running of the Companys operations, maintaining effective management and the development and implementation Rupert Robson of strategy in order to maximise shareholder value.
Chairman 1 March 2016 The Board allows the Executive Directors to take up appointments with other companies on the proviso that the time commitment involved is not too onerous and would not conflict with their duties to the Company.
The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters ofappointment are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Non-executive directors contracts are for specific terms and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The service agreements and the letters of appointment will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other than public holidays at the Companys registered office, and at the AGM from fifteen minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
28 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Independence of Directors Performance evaluation The Board has determined that all of the Non-executive Directors Reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees are independent in character and judgement and thereare no andthe performance of individual Directors were undertaken in relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could 2015.
The effectiveness of the Board was reviewed internally by appear to affect, any Directors judgement.
The Senior Independent wayof an on-line questionnaire using Evalu8.
The outcomes of the Non-executive Director has responsibility forengaging with any questionnaire were discussed at a Board meeting and follow up shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the actions proposed.
The review of the Boards effectiveness concluded normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director that the Board was operating effectively.
The effectiveness of the has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Boards Committees was also undertaken using Evalu8 and similarly Senior Independent Non-executive Director provides a sounding concluded that the Boards Committees were operating effectively.
board for the Chairman and is available to actas an intermediary In 2013 an independent, external facilitator was used and it is the for other Directors when necessary.
Boards intention to carry out an independent, externally facilitated review in 2016.
Induction, professional development and Performance evaluations of individual Directors were also undertaken corporateawareness which considered the effectiveness and commitment of the individual All Directors receive an induction to the Company on joining Directors and the need for any training or development.
In January theBoard and relevant training is available to Directors to 2016 the Chairman formally met the Non-executive Directors without assistthemin the performance of their duties.
The Chairman is the Executive Directors being present to evaluate the performance of responsible for ensuring that Directors continually update their the individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Nonskills and knowledge and familiarity with the Company required executive Director and theother Non-executive Directors met without tofulfil their role on the Board and its Committees.
The Audit, the Chairman being present to evaluate the Chairmans performance, Riskand Remuneration Committees receive briefings on current having firstobtained feedback from the Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors take advantage considered the Chairmans commitment of time to the Company in ofsector and general conferences and seminars and training light of his other commitments, as noted inhis biography on page 30 eventsorganised by professional firms and receive circulars and and concluded that he fully satisfied his obligations to the Company.
training materials from the Company and other professional Appropriatefeedback was provided following these meetings.
Presentations are made to the Board by members of the Chairman has also provided feedback on performance to the NonCompanys Executive Committee and arrangements are made for executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors to meet members of the management teams on a regular basis.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code The Company complies with UK Corporate Governance Code Non-executive Directors periodically visit the Companys theCode.
international offices, usually in connection with other activities.
TheBoard is kept informed of any material shareholder Election or re-election at the AGM correspondence, brokers reports on the Company and sector, At the 2012 AGM, amendments to the Companys Articles institutional voting agency recommendations and documents withregard to re-election of Directors were approved in order reflecting current shareholder thinking.
toalign them with the recommendations set out in the Code.
Consequently, the Articles require that, at each AGM of the Conflicts of interest Company, all Directors must retire from office and each Director The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider wishing to serve again must submit themselves for election or and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an re-election by shareholders.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company a Relevant Situation.
The Board has a formal Details of those Directors who are submitting themselves for system in place for Directors to declare Relevant Situations to be election or re-election at this years AGM are set out in the separate considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no notice of meeting.
interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to Carol Sergeant was appointed since the last AGM and accordingly authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-conflicted Directors must issubject to election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board believes act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to that Carol Sergeant brings extensive knowledge of financial promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if they markets and expertise in the area of risk and regulation, which willenable her to make a valuable contribution to the Company think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed and the Board recommends her election.
procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise Relevant Situations and believes that the systems it has in place for The Chairman has confirmed in the Chairmans Statement, and the reporting and considering Relevant Situations, including an annual Board is satisfied that, following formal performance evaluation, review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
During the performance of each of the Directors offering themselves for the year the Board, reviewed the external business commitments re-election continues to be effective, and that each demonstrates of members of the Board and concluded that none of these gave commitment to the role.
rise to conflicts of interest or other factors which might affect the effective operation of the Company or the Board.
Biographies of all Directors are set out on the following page.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 29
