Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 81 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 Corporate 2 54 139 209 Governance Report Our customer-focused strategy, Board composition underpinned by our culture and There have been anumber of changes to the Board.
strong corporate governance, provides the foundation that Geeta Gopalan was appointed as an Independent Nonmakes Virgin Money an Executive Director in June.
Geetas broad experience and attractive investment.
knowledge of the financial services industry, including digital innovation, will be invaluable to us as we continue to grow the business.
In addition, Marilyn Spearing became Chair of the Remuneration Committee, following Olivia Dicksons retirement from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Dear Shareholders As announced in January 2016, Peter Bole will join us as I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report Chief Financial Officer CFO in 2017, following which he will for 2015.
This report explains how the Group applies the be appointed as an Executive Director.
This appointment principles of good corporate governance, in particular those followed Lee Rochfords decision to leave the business in laid down in the 2014 edition of the Financial Reporting August 2015.
More information on the Boards approach to 1 Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
the recruitment of Directors and the skills and experience of Peter and Geeta is set out on pages 97 and 98.
I am pleased to report that during the year the Board and its Committees met their objectives and carried out their James B Lockhart III, WL Ross WLR nominee director, also responsibilities effectively.
Further detail can be foundon stepped down as aNon-Executive Director in September, pages 92 to 93 and in the Board Committee Reports asaresult of WLR, previously acontrolling shareholder of onpages 96 to 110. the Group for the purposes of the Listing Rules, reducing itsshareholding from 33.5 per cent to 12.0 per cent.
Set out below are the principal corporate governance matters considered in 2015.
We continue to strive for abalanced Board and remain committed to increasing diversity.
We therefore aim to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive Director in Chairman succession 2016 as part of our medium-term succession planning.
I was appointed to the Board as an Independent NonExecutive Director on 1 January 2015.
I succeeded Sir David Culture Clementi as Chairman on 21 May 2015.
The Board should articulate and promote aculture of risk In this first full year following our listing on the London awareness and ethical behaviour for the entire organisation Stock Exchange, I have taken the opportunity to review the to follow in pursuit of its business goals.
The Non-Executive Groups governance arrangements and undertake arobust, Directors play akey role in holding management to account  Board Effectiveness Evaluation exercise.
for embedding and maintaining this culture.
I am confident that the resulting recommendations, when fully implemented, will strengthen Board effectiveness and At Virgin Money we are proud of aculture that sustains our will position the Board well to achieve our strategic objectives.
ambition to make Everyone Better Off and believe our culture Further detail on both reviews can be found in this report.
cannot be readily and credibly replicated in the UK banking sector.
Our culture provides the foundation for the Groups strategy and differentiated approach to banking.
1 The Code can be accessed at frc.
indd 81 01 03 2016 11:30 82 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Board effectiveness External auditor The Board Effectiveness Evaluation was undertaken in During the year the Board, on the recommendation of the the second half of 2015 by Boardroom Review Limited.
It Audit Committee, appointed  offered an independent view of the Board and Committees LLP PwC as external auditor for the Groups 2016 audit, effectiveness and has provided the Board with aroadmap following aformal competitive tender overseen by the Audit for its development.
It also illustrated how the Directors Committee.
This appointment will be put to shareholders for can optimise their contribution to the success of the Group, approval in May at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
both individually and collectively, and add value by building I would like to take the opportunity to thank KPMG LLP for the on existing strengths, agreeing the challenges ahead and insight they have brought and the value that they have added preparing for the future.
Further detail is contained on to the business during their tenure.
We expect an orderly pages 92 to 93. transition and look forward to working with PwC in the future.
I would like to thank Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited for her thorough and insightful review and my fellow Looking ahead Board members and Executive for the time and support given by them to the evaluation.
I am delighted to welcome the increasing number of retail and institutional shareholders investing in Virgin Money and look forward to engaging with our shareholders over the Regulatory governance changes and course of 2016. developments Finally, I would like to thank each of the Directors for their We welcome the implementation this month of the Senior commitment during 2015 and for their support during the first Managers and Certification Regimes and new Conduct Rules nine months of my Chairmanship.
We are very well-placed and the clarity they will bring to lines of responsibility and to make the most of the opportunities that exist and I look accountability.
forward to building on what we have achieved so far.
We view the regimes and their application as consistent with the principle of collective decision-making which underpins good Board decision-making.
We continue to participate in regulatory consultations on corporate governance and to work with the relevant authorities on the introduction of regulations connected to the Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013.
The Act will Glen Moreno result in the ring-fencing of retail and commercial operations Chairman to separate them from investment banking activities.
Given that we are aUK focused retail bank, we expect our entire 1 March 2016 business will be within the ring-fence when it comes into effect at the beginning of 2019.
indd 82 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 83 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 The Board, its members and additional support Purpose and responsibilities The Group is led by aBoard comprising aNon-Executive Chairman, Non-Executive Directors the majority of whom are independent and an Executive Director.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Virgin Money.
Itachieves this by setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against it.
It establishes the culture, values and standards oftheGroup, effectively managing risk, monitoring financial performance and reporting, and ensuring that appropriate andeffective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
The role of the Directors Set out below are the roles of the Chairman and other Board members.
There is aclear division of responsibility at the head oftheGroup.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board while the Chief Executive manages and leads the business.
Chairman Chief Executive Glen Moreno joined the Board in January 2015 as Chairman designate Jayne-Anne Gadhia was appointed Chief Executive in March 2007. and became Chairman on 21 May 2015, following the retirement of The Chief Executive: SirDavid Clementi.
manages the Group on aday-to-day basis and in accordance with The Chairman: thestrategy and long-term objectives approved by the Board: has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board and with the exception of those matters reserved to the Board, makes promotion of the highest standards of corporate governance: decisions on all areas affecting the operations, performance and has responsibility for leading the development of the Groups culture strategy of the Groups business: by the Board as awhole: provides leadership and direction to senior management: sets the Boards agenda to ensure that the Board devotes its time co-ordinates all activities to implement the Groups strategy and for andattention to the right matters: managing the business in accordance with the Groups risk appetite builds an effective and complementary Board: and business plan set by the Board: and plans succession in Board appointments in conjunction with the has responsibility for overseeing the adoption of the Groups culture Nomination Committee: in the day-to-day management of the Group.
ensures the Directors receive timely and relevant information and arekept advised of developments: and ensures effective communication with shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director The Non-Executive Directors are listed on pages 74 to 77.
Norman McLuskie was appointed Senior Independent Director in January2010.
Non-Executive Directors: The Senior Independent Director: challenge constructively: helps resolve shareholders concerns: help develop and set the Groups strategy: acts as asounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive on participate actively in the decision-making process of the Board: Board and shareholder matters: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals is aconduit, as required, for the views of other Non-Executive and objectives: Directors on the performance of the Chairman: provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within aframework is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact ofprudent effective controls: through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and contact is inappropriate: systems of risk management: and if required, attends meetings with major shareholders and financial determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors analysts to understand issues and concerns: and via the Remuneration Committee.
conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal.
indd 83 01 03 2016 11:30 84 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report The role of the Chief Financial Officer CFO Access to advice The CFO is responsible for the financial management of the The Group also provides access, at its own expense, to the Group and day-to-day management of the balance sheet.
services of independent professional advisers in order to assist The CFO ensures that the Group meets statutory reporting the Directors, in particular Non-Executive Directors, in their roles obligations, ensures the delivery of regulatory capital and whenever this is deemed necessary.
Board Committees are also liquidity requirements and identifies opportunities to improve provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
the profit and loss performance of the business within the agreed risk appetite.
The CFO also maintains appropriate cash resources Authority and delegation and projections and ensures compliance with the terms of external debt facilities.
Corporate governance framework The current CFO is not aBoard member but is invited to Board The Groups corporate governance framework, which is reviewed meetings to provide specialist support as appropriate.
annually by the Board, comprises the Board authority and the delegated executive authority.
In January 2016, the Group announced the agreed appointment of Peter Bole as CFO.
It is expected Peter will join Virgin Money as Board authority CFO in 2017, following which he will be appointed as an Executive Director.
Dave Dyer will remain as CFO, providing support to the The Board authority sets out the matters reserved to the Board.
Board, until he hands over responsibilities to Peter.
He is not This includes decisions concerning the strategy and long-term an Executive Director.
Please see page 98 of the Nomination objectives of the Group, capital and financial budgets, significant Committee Report for further details.
contracts and transactions and various statutory and regulatory approvals.
The approval of the remuneration policy, risk appetite and risk management framework are also reserved to the Board.
The role of the Company Secretary The Board authority delegates responsibility for day-to-day The Company Secretary is accountable to the Board.
The management of the business to the Chief Executive and sets Company Secretary provides comprehensive practical support out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to to the Directors, both as individuals and as acollective, with Board Committees.
particular emphasis on supporting the Non-Executive Directors in maintaining appropriate standards of probity and corporate Further details of Board reserved matters can be found governance.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for atvirginmoney.
facilitating communications with shareholders, as appropriate, and ensuring due regard is paid to their interests.
All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary in relation to the discharge of their duties.
indd 84 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 85 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 The following table provides an overview of the key matters considered by the Board in 2015: Strategy and budget Structure, capital and transactions Finance, statutory and regulatory requirements The Board: The Board: The Board: approved an update to the Groups strategy considered acquisition opportunities: approved the annual report and interim and long-term objectives: accounts and significant accounting changes: determined the funding strategy to approved an update to the three-year optimise funding costs, extend tenor and approved the shareholder notice of AGM: financial plan and the 2016 operating plan ensure appropriate diversification in the approved the interim dividend and proposed and budget: fundingbase: the final dividend: and reviewed delivery against plan: and approved the first issue under the Medium considered regulatory changes to be Term Note MTN programme and further reviewed strategic proposals and introduced by, amongst others, the Banking Residential Mortgage Backed Securities operationalissues.
Reform Act including retail ring-fencing, the RMBS programmes: and EU Mortgage Credit Directive and significant approved changes to the capital structure, developments in regulatory capital and including additional listings to satisfy liquidity requirements.
Remuneration Risk management Governance The Board: The Board: The Board: approved the Directors remuneration policy approved the Groups risk appetite and risk determined the Board and Committee and the overall remuneration policy and management framework: structures, size and composition: philosophy of the Group: monitored the Groups aggregate risk facilitated aBoard Effectiveness Evaluation: approved the remuneration and structure of exposures, risk return and emerging risks: carried out an annual review of the corporate NED fees for 2015 and 2016: and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk governance framework, Board Committee approved the remuneration policy measures management and internal control systems: terms of reference and key Group policies: for bonuses and the Long Term Incentive approved Recovery and Resolution Plans considered the independence of Plan LTIP.
updated to reflect the requirements of the EU Non-Executive Directors: Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive: and appointed anew Chairman and new conducted deep dives into cybercrime and Non-Executive Director to the Board: and information security.
considered Board and Executive including CFO succession planning and appointment.
Board Strategy Review During the year, the Board spent considerable time discussing, PCAmarket, and the development of a Small Medium Enterprises debating and devising the business strategy for the next three years.
SME strategy, were all discussed in detail.
Risk oversight and The aim of the strategy is to build on the Groups unique position as risk appetite, together with areview of organisational capability astrong, low risk retail bank, unburdened by legacy conduct issues.
was the first strategic review undertaken since listing on the London Together, these issues were considered very carefully by the Board to Stock Exchange and the Board remains committed to maintaining the ensure the business is able to continue delivering sustainable success Groups growth momentum, continuing to build ahigh-quality balance forallstakeholders.
sheet and generating sustainable and strong shareholder returns Outcomes from discussions held by other Committees were also within its prudent risk appetite.
The strategic review considered and assessed and considered.
For example, the Board Risk Committee incorporated the three-year financial plan, the 2016 operating plan considered risk appetite amendments required to support the including culture, the development of the existing business and the strategic plan.
This included those driven by regulatory or policy transformational change agenda and the external environment.
changes and areassessment of business requirements.
In addition, The potential for consolidation in UK retail banking, the requirement the Nomination and Remuneration Committee provided oversight to grow non-interest income and deepen customer relationships, regarding organisational structure, capability changes and digital transformation, conducting aPersonal Current Account succession matters.
Asaresult, the Executive was strengthened PCA feasibility study with aview to defining entry into abroader tosupport the continued growth of the business.
indd 85 01 03 2016 11:30 86 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Delegated executive authority The Chief Executive, through the delegated executive authority, delegates aspects of her own authority, as permitted, to members of the Executive.
On adaily basis, the Executive discuss business performance and issues within the business.
The majority of the Executive Committees meet to scrutinise key business matters on amonthly basis.
Certain Executive Committees, such as the Disclosure Committee, may meet more regularly and as required.
The Internal Audit Director and the Company Secretary, or their representatives, attend all Executive Committee meetings to ensure that there is appropriate internal audit oversight and that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained, including the escalation of matters to the Board and its Committees.
Other representatives from the business attend as necessary and appropriate.
"POFZ PMEJOHT 6, QMD #PBSE PG %JSFDUPST PNJOBUJPO $PNNJUUFF ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF #PBSE 3JTL $PNNJUUFF 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF, FFQT VOEFS SFWJFX UIF MFBEFSTIJQ."
POJUPST BOE SFWJFXT UIF SPVQT.
POJUPST UIF SPVQT DPNQMJBODF 3FDPNNFOET BO PWFSBMM OFFET PG UIF SPVQ JODMVEJOH BO OBODJBM SFQPSUJOH BSSBOHNFOUT UIF XJUI UIF #PBSET BQQSPWFE SJTL SFNVOFSBUJPO QPMJDZ BOE QIJMPTPQIZ BOOVBM SFWJFX PG UIF TUSVDUVSF BEFRVBDZ BOE FFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF BQQFUJUF SJTL NBOBHFNFOU UIBU JT BMJHOFE XJUI UIF MPOH UFSN TJ[F BOE DPNQPTJUJPO PG UIF #PBSE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPMT BOE SJTL GSBNFXPSL BOE SJTL DVMUVSF JOUFSFTUT PG UIF SPVQ CVTJOFTT %FWFMPQT BOE NBJOUBJOT B GPSNBM NBOBHFNFOU TZTUFNT JODMVEJOH PQFSBUJPOT SJTL BQQFUJUF BOE WBMVFT SJHPSPVT BOE USBOTQBSFOU QSPDFEVSF XIJTUMF CMPXJOH BOE UIF XPSL PG UIF %FUFSNJOFT UIF GSBNFXPSL BOE QPMJDZ GPS NBLJOH BQQPJOUNFOUT UP UIF JOUFSOBM BOE FYUFSOBM BVEJU QSPDFTTFT PO UFSNT PG FOHBHFNFOU JODMVEJOH #PBSE BOE SFWJFXJOH TVDDFTTJPO.
"BOBHFT BMM SFMBUJPOTIJQT XJUI UIF SFNVOFSBUJPO PG UIF $IBJSNBO QMBOOJOH BU #PBSE BOE TFOJPS FYUFSOBM BVEJUPS #PBSE NFNCFST BOE TFOJPS &YFDVUJWF MFWFM NBOBHFNFOU $IJFG &YFDVUJWF BZOF ""OOF BEIJB 3FTQPOTJCMF GPS NBOBHJOH UIF CVTJOFTT PG UIF SPVQ JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF TUSBUFHZ BOE MPOH UFSN PCKFDUJWFT BQQSPWFE CZ UIF #PBSE &YFDVUJWF BOE &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT 1MFBTF TFF QBHFT BOE GPS B MJTU PG UIF &YFDVUJWF BOE QBHF GPS UIF LFZ &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT The role of the Board Committees The Board is supported by its Committees which make recommendations to the Board on matters delegated to them, in particular in relation to internal control, risk management, financial reporting, governance, succession planning and remuneration matters."
Thisenables the Board to spend agreater proportion of its time on strategic, forward looking agenda items.
The current Board Committees are set out above.
Each Board Committee, other than the Nomination Committee comprises solely Independent Non-Executive Directors.
TheNomination Committee comprises all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director, Gordon McCallum, who is the director nominated by the controlling shareholder, Virgin Group Holdings Limited Virgin in accordance with the relationship agreement between the Group and Virgin.
Each Board Committee is chaired by an experienced Non-Executive Director who reports to the Board on the activities of the Board Committee at each Board meeting.
Information on the membership, role and activities of each of the Board Committees can be found on pages 96 to 110.
Theterms of reference for each of the Committees are available on the Virgin Money website virginmoney.
indd 86 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 87 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Governance review During 2015, the Group conducted areview of its governance andthe Chief Risk Officer is an additional Executive Director framework and processes.
The review was aimed at enhancing ofthe Bank Board.
governance structures and enabling more focused discussion The main Board Committees are replicated at the Bank level regarding strategic matters, the external environment with the exception of the Nomination and Remuneration and emerging risks.
The forthcoming Senior Managers Committees that operate at the Group Board level only and and Certification Regimes were also considered as part consider appointments, succession and remuneration matters of the review.
From aBoard perspective, as aresult of the review, the The Groups investments, pensions and insurance business is Group has reduced the frequency of Board and Committee conducted through the Companys subsidiaries, Virgin Money meetings to drive efficiency and moved from eleven to eight Unit Trust Managers Limited VMUTM and Virgin Money scheduled Boards per year.
Board meetings are now longer Personal Financial Service Limited VMPFS.
VMUTM and in duration and designed for detailed discussion on strategic VMPFS are regulated by the FCA.
and operational matters and emerging issues.
In addition, the VMUTMs principal activities are the sale and management quality of Board packs were improved with an emphasis on ofauthorised pensions and unit trusts.
the provision of timely, accurate and concise information to Directors, to support effective decision making.
The Group VMPFSs principal activities are the provision of Stock and has also consolidated the Board Risk Committee and Balance Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISAs and the marketing Sheet Committee into asingle Board Risk Committee further and distribution of general insurance and life insurance details are set out in the Board Risk Committee Report policies in the UK.
The boards of VMUTM and VMPFS include certain members The review has also led to astreamlining and consolidation ofthe Executive.
of the responsibilities of certain Executive Committees to embrace the principles of effectiveness, accountability, Other Entities simplification and empowerment.
The Group will continue to refine its governance framework to ensure it remains Virgin Money Giving VMG is anot-for-profit company appropriate as the Group evolves.
within the Group and the vehicle for Virgin Moneys charity fundraising and donations website.
VMG has twoindependent non-executive directors on its board.
Subsidiary governance In August 2015, Virgin Money launched the Virgin Money Regulated Entities Foundation Foundation.
The Foundation will promote The Groups business is primarily conducted through Virgin the sustainable regeneration of economically and socially Money plc the Bank which is regulated by the Financial deprived communities in the UK.
The board of the Foundation Conduct Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation Authority is made up, in the most part, of independent Trustees.
The Bank is focused primarily on providing residential Furtherdetails on the Foundation are contained on page 42. mortgages, savings and credit cards.
It also offers amarketTo help manage the legal, regulatory and reputational risks leading Basic Bank Account, the Essential Current Account.
associated with the Groups subsidiary entities, the Group The Bank Board largely replicates that of the Board, save requires that subsidiary Boards operate in accordance with that Gordon McCallum and Patrick McCall the two nonthe governance standards set out in the Virgin Money High independent Non-Executive Directors are not members Level Controls Manual, approved by the Board.
indd 87 01 03 2016 11:30 88 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Board composition Board size Board Appointments The Board should be of sufficient size and composition to The chart below sets out the changes to the Boards reflect abroad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing membership in 2015.
The appointment of new Directors to the all Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
The Board Board follows aformal, rigorous and transparent procedure.
includes asufficient number and quality of Independent Non-Executive Directors who, between them, have sufficient Board Changes in 2015 breadth of understanding of the Groups activities to enable them to provide effective challenge to the Executive.
TheBoard 5PUBM OVNCFS PG %JSFDUPST currently comprises one Executive Director, sixNon-Executive Directors, four of whom are considered to be independent and BOVBSZ MFO.
PSFOP BQQPJOUFE the Chairman, who was independent on appointment.
VOF FFUB PQPMBO BQQPJOUFE 4JS %BWJE $MFNFOUJ SFUJSFE Further details on independence and succession planning are set out in the Nomination Committee Report at pages 97 and 98.
"""VHVTUFF 3PDIGPSE SFUJSFE %RDUG FRPSRVLWLRQ E JHQGHU 4FQUFNCFS BNFT # -PDLIBSU SFUJSFE Q 0HQ Q :RPHQ %FDFNCFS 0MJWJB %JDLTPO SFUJSFE More information on the Board composition and the appointment process is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 97 to 98."
Executive Director service agreement %RDUG FRPSRVLWLRQ E UROH and Non-Executive Director terms of Q [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRU Q 1RQ [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRU appointment Q, QGHSHQGHQW 1RQ [HFXWLYH The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for 'LUHFWRU LQFOXGLQJ &KDLUPDQ aspecified term subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors may have their appointment terminated in accordance with the Articles of Association ofthe Company Articles, their letters of appointment or statute at anytime without compensation.
The Chief Executive is able to terminate her appointment %RDUG FRPSRVLWLRQ E WHQXUH by giving twelve months notice.
The Chairman has asix Q months notice period.
The Non-Executive Directors letters HDUV Q HDUV of appointment, and the service agreement of the Executive Q HDUV Director, are available for inspection by shareholders at Virgin Moneys registered office.
indd 88 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 89 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and the Election and re-election Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any All Directors appointed to the Board since the 2015 AGM and actual or potential conflict situations.
up to the date of this report will stand for election at the 2016 AGM.
All other Directors will retire and those wishing to serve In addition, conflicts are monitored as follows: again will stand for re-election by shareholders at the 2016 the Directors are required to declare any conflicts AGM.
Biographies for each of the current Directors are set out on appointment: on pages 74 to 77. changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported As acontrolling shareholder of the Group, Virgin will be to the Board: and entitled to vote on the ordinary resolutions at the AGM for the re-election of the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
a register of potential conflicts is regularly reviewed by the However, each resolution relating to the re-election of the Chairman to ensure the authorisation remains appropriate.
Independent Non-Executive Directors will also require, for If any potential conflict arises, the relevant Director will the purposes of the Listing Rules, approval by amajority excuse him herself from any meeting or discussions where the of the votes cast by the Groups independent shareholders potential conflicts are considered and all relevant material will being the shareholders excluding Virgin in order to be valid.
be restricted, including Board papers and minutes.
The outcome of both of these vote counts will be announced following the 2016 AGM.
All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in aregister of Directors Conflicts of Interests.
This sets out the duration of the conflict, any circumstances in which the Directors and Officers Liability insurance Director must revert to the Board and any conditions relating Information on the Groups insurance cover and indemnity to the authorisation.
arrangements for liabilities that may arise against them There were no potential conflicts arising in 2015 which personally in connection with the performance of their role required arelevant Director to excuse him herself from any isprovided on page 136 of the Directors Report.
meeting or discussion on such matter.
Diversity policy Time commitments The Board is committed to improving diversity in its Each Non-Executive Director is required to devote such time membership in the broadest sense.
While any new as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties to appointments continue to be based on merit, careful aminimum of 36 days per year, including attendance at Board consideration is given to the business benefits of improving Committees.
Non-Executive Directors may be expected to and complementing the diversity, skills, experience and relinquish other appointments to ensure that they can meet knowledge of the Board.
Recruitment of an additional the time commitments of their role and the requirements of Non-Executive Director is underway and improved diversity CRD IV and the Senior Managers and Certification Regimes.
Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors reflect the time Information on the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion commitment and responsibilities of the role.
The current and diversity initiatives, including atable detailing the number Non-Executive Directors do not receive share options or other and percentage of women employed at various levels of the performance-related pay.
Details of the share options granted Group, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 33 to 34. to Sir David Clementi, the former Chairman, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 134.
Conflicts of interest The Chairman is required to commit to Virgin Money All Directors of the Group have astatutory duty to avoid being his primary role and limit his other commitments any situation which might give rise to aconflict between to ensure he can spend as much time as the role requires.
their personal interests and those of Virgin Money.
Prior to Glen Moreno stood down as Chairman of Pearson plc on appointment, potential conflicts of interest are disclosed and 31 December 2015 thereby enabling enhanced focus assessed to ensure that there are no matters which would onVirginMoney business in 2016. prevent the incoming Director from taking the appointment.
indd 89 01 03 2016 11:30 90 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Executive Directors must seek authorisation from the Board An enhanced induction process was undertaken for Glen before accepting any additional responsibilities or external Moreno in preparation for his appointment as Chairman.
appointments and are restricted to holding no more than two Thisincluded in-depth sessions with business divisions Non-Executive Director roles excluding roles with bodies not andvisits to each of the Groups key sites.
At 31 December 2015, the Executive On being appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Director was compliant with this requirement and continues Marilyn Spearing attended numerous meetings with the to be at the date of this report.
relevant business executives including the HR Director.
Training Professional development Board induction The Board receives regular training and information sessions All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution throughout the year to address current business or emerging based on an understanding of the Groups business model issues.
This training is undertaken under the leadership of the and the key challenges it faces.
The Chairman ensures that Chairman and delivered through presentations and written all Directors receive afull, formal and tailored induction updates by both professional advisers and members of the on joining the Board, facilitated by the Company Secretary Executive.
During 2015, training and information sessions and comprising: covered anumber of areas including: a corporate induction, including an introduction to the Senior Managers and Certification Regimes: Board and adetailed overview of the Group, its strategy, Recovery and Resolution Planning: the competitive environment, operational and governance structures and main business activities: Liquidity and the liquidity regulatory agenda: and training on the roles and responsibilities of aDirector, Capital including stress testing requirements.
including statutory duties and responsibilities as an FCA In addition, the Audit Committee hosted aseries of updates approved person: and on the latest accounting standards and the Board Risk a detailed induction programme across Risk and Finance Committee hosted in-depth training and guidance on cyber focusing on: risk appetite and the Groups risk profile, crime and IT security.
culture and framework, compliance and conduct risk, Directors are also invited to attend courses, management financial analysis and controls, capital, stress testing, meetings and one-to-one meetings with key Executives.
liquidity, recovery and resolution planning, regulatory developments including regulatory landscape changes, governance and cultural expectations post crisis and Board agenda and attendance Banking Reform Act initiatives.
Setting the Board agenda The bespoke induction agreed with the Chairman is tailored The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda to the individual needs of the Director with regard to his her and is assisted with this by the Chief Executive and specific role and skills and experience to date.
This takes the Company Secretary.
Board agendas are structured to allow form of reading materials, meetings with members of the adequate time for discussion of agenda items, particularly Board, Executive sessions with the Groups business divisions strategic matters.
Prior to each Board meeting, the Chairman reviews the agenda and time allocation with the Company Secretary and discusses key items of business with the Chief Executive.
The Chairman engages with the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive before each scheduled meeting to discuss any matters they wish to raise.
indd 90 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 91 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Effective use of the Boards time To ensure there is sufficient time allocated to formal Board business, informal additional Board time is often arranged prior to each scheduled Board meeting.
This allows the Directors greater time for debate ahead of the meeting.
These pre-meetings are normally attended by all members of the Board and certain members of the Executive.
Occasionally, Non-Executive Director sessions, without the Executive Director, are built into the Board and Committee timetable.
Akey recommendation arising from the Board Effectiveness Evaluation is to optimise the Boards contribution by effective use of its time.
This has been done through re-designing the forward agenda for 2016.
This will balance strategic, operational and governance items, and prioritise critical issues.
In addition avariety of Board forums, including Chief Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director only meetings and Non-Executive Director only meetings have been scheduled throughout 2016.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out below.
The number of meetings heldduring the period that the Director held office is shown in brackets.
While Directors may be invited to, and regularly attend other Board Committee meetings, only attendance at Board Committees of which Directors are members is recorded inthe below table.
In 2015, atotal of thirteen Board meetings were held, ten ofwhich were scheduled and three were ad hoc meetings.
Ad hoc Board meetings are called on short notice to discuss amatter that cannot wait until the next scheduled meeting.
Where aDirector is unable to attend ameeting, the Chairman discusses the matter with the Director and seeks his her views for the proposed resolutions.
He also represents his her views at the meeting.
Also, any Director unable to attend ameeting has the opportunity toreview any papers and provide comments to the Chairman.
Scheduled Additional Board Balance Board Board Remuneration Nomination Risk Audit Sheet 1 Virgin Money Holdings UK plc meetings meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Current Directors who served during 2015 Glen Moreno 10 10 3 3 4 4 2 2 Norman McLuskie 10 10 3 3 7 7 6 6 5 5 9 10 1 2 Colin Keogh 10 10 3 3 6 6 5 5 10 10 2 2 Marilyn Spearing 10 10 3 3 7 7 3 3 5 5 10 10 2 2 3 3 Geeta Gopalan appointed 25 June 2015 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 2 3 4 4 4 Gordon McCallum 10 10 2 3 5 6 5 Patrick McCall 10 10 1 3 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE 10 10 3 3 Former Directors who served during 2015 6 Sir David Clementi retired 30 June 2015 6 6 1 1 4 4 2 3 James B Lockhart III 7 7 2 2 4 4 retired 11 September 2015 Lee Rochford retired 31 August 2015 7 7 1 1 7 Olivia Dickson retired 31 December 2015 10 10 3 3 7 7 6 6 4 5 2 2 1 The Balance Sheet Committee and Board Risk Committee were consolidated into asingle Board Risk Committee in June 2015.
4 Conflict with an external appointment.
5 Conflict with external appointments and meetings arranged at short notice.
6 Conflict with an external appointment.
7 Conflict with an external appointment.
indd 91 01 03 2016 11:30 92 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness Board effectiveness Background Key conclusions The Board engaged an external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long CBE of A well balanced Board in terms of skills, experience and Boardroom Review Limited, for the Groups Board and Committees independence: effectiveness review.
Boardroom Review, which has no other An engaged, experienced and inclusive Chairman with strong connection with the Group, has extensive experience working with sector knowledge and asupportive and consultative relationship publicly listed organisations and DrLong is considered to be aleader with the Chief Executive was also recognised: in the field of board evaluation.
Chairman is focusing on refining the Boards role and use of its time The process was co-ordinated by the Chairman and Company to drive increased Board engagement and added value: Secretary who together provided acomprehensive briefing to The Chief Executive is commended for her integrity and leadership Dr Long.
Asummary of the evaluation methodology, process and as agood ambassador and strong customer advocate: followed, conclusions and the Board roadmap priorities and Transparent information flow and open access between Nonrecommendations are set out below.
Executive Directors and the Executives: Board processes are becoming more efficient with high quality Evaluation methodology and process information and excellent secretarial support, contributing to the The methodology for the review was designed to provide an exchange efficiency of meetings: of ideas and opinions between the reviewer and the Directors and An open culture, diversity of opinion and committed contribution aconstructive and ongoing dialogue between Board members.
byallmembers: Themes The review examined use of Board time, quality of Appropriate focus on strategy, risk and control and remuneration information received, Board contribution including culture and with ashared view of the strategic challenges faced by the business: dynamics, composition and Board areas and depth of engagement The risk and control framework was considered aparticular strategy, risk and control and people.
strength with astrong and distinctive corporate culture with Evidence Copies of Board and Committee papers and key declared values, principles and behaviours evident: and governance materials were reviewed.
Detailed interviews were conducted with each Board member, the CFO, Chief Risk Officer, A straightforward and disciplined approach to remuneration, HR Director, Chief Banking Officer and Company Secretary.
September 2015 Board and Committees were observed to witness Follow up first-hand boardroom dynamics and effectiveness.
The results of the evaluation process formed part of the Chairmans Independent view An analysis of strengths and challenges, appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board, its members and priorities and objectives was undertaken.
the annual effectiveness review of each of the Board Committees.
Prioritisation and roadmap A draft discussion document, The Chairman has discussed with individual Directors any specific containing analysis, personal opinion and recommendations training or development needs arising from the review.
Dr Long based on best practice as detailed in the Code and other current will meet again with the Chairman in six to twelve months time guidelines, was discussed with the Chairman.
This was followed by todiscuss progress made against the roadmap.
individual meetings with all participants, during which feedback on individual performance and suggestions for improvement was provided.
The outcome of the evaluation was discussed with the Board in November 2015, at which Dr Long presented her findings and the Board agreed the roadmap for its development.
indd 92 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 93 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Roadmap priorities and recommendations actions The Chairman has formalised the key internal appraisal processes takeninresponse andappointment processes agreed with the Nomination Committee for recruitment and tenure planning.
A need to balance strategic, operational and governance items andprioritise critical issues.
Deeper focus on the external landscape market environment, The 2016 forward agendas have been developed through competition, regulatory agenda.
acollaborative process, and consultation between the Chairman, There is ashared recognition between the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Directors that greater time is needed on the external environment.
In addition to its current assessment of the evolving external A variety of Board forums, including Chief Executive Chairman environments and the Groups competitive position, aseries Non-Executive Director meetings and Non-Executive Director-only of deep dive briefings on the external market and regulatory meetings have been built into the 2016 Board schedule facilitating environment with afocus on threats and opportunities are to be engagement outside of the formal Board Committee forums.
The importance of the Board as ateam.
Need for increased time on scenario planning or crisis management.
The Board has to function well as ateam, with ahealthy balance of As the Group grows its business, the risk agenda will develop with challenge and support.
The approved statement of responsibilities increased focus on scenario planning and crisis management and for Senior Managers and revised role profiles for all Non-Executive identification of risk priorities.
The Chairman will continue to focus on creating astrong Board Continued focus on leadership and ensuring that talent development and culture with mutual trust and respect, open communications, succession planning are aligned with the current and future strategy.
The Chairman and Chief Executive will continue to identify certain Greater clarity and visibility on Board succession and appointment.
individuals internally or externally with the potential to take on The Board is enhancing the medium-term succession plan to the ChiefExecutive role in the future and ensure the Nomination provide clear succession for Non-Executive Directors, Committee Committee isprepared for Chief Executive succession.
Chairs and key members of the Executive.
Askills matrix and The Board will continue to review the senior talent and diversity, refresh plan is under development to align with current and future succession and development plans on an annual basis.
The reviews strategy recognising the need for diversity, experience, desired will include analysis of the key internal and external competencies behaviours and culture.
required, available options and individual development plans.
Shareholder engagement and relationships Controlling shareholders During 2015 the Groups controlling shareholders were The Board recognises the need for aprogramme of Virgin and WLR.
The Group is party to relationship agreements engagement which offers all shareholders opportunities to with each of Virgin and WLR Relationship Agreements.
receive information directly and enable them to share their The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreements is views with the Board.
to ensure that Virgin Money is capable of carrying on its The Chairman and Chief Executive have an ongoing dialogue business independently of its controlling shareholders.
with the Virgin nominee director in respect of the Board agenda.
TheRelationship Agreements provide for the appointment of anominee director by each of Virgin and WLR through whom During the year FMR LLC, Kames Capital plc and BlackRock, Inc the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are kept up have increased their shareholdings in the Company to 7.71%, to date during the year with the views of such shareholders.
Please see page 287 for details of the break down of the Companys share register.
indd 93 01 03 2016 11:30 94 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report WLR ceased to be acontrolling shareholder for the Investor relations purposes of the Listing Rules on 20 April 2015 when WLR The Investor Relations Director has primary responsibility sold 45 million ordinary shares, reducing its shareholding for day-to-day communications with existing shareholders, to 23.3 per cent.
In September, WLR sold down afurther potential investors and analysts.
Supported by the Chief tranche of shares resulting in areduction of its shareholding Executive and CFO as well as other executives as required, to 12.0 per cent and at the same time WLRs nominee director, these communications are effected through acombination James B Lockhart III, also stepped down as aNon-Executive of briefings to analysts and institutional investors, individual Director.
As aconsequence of WLR ceasing to be acontrolling discussions with shareholders and potential investors, shareholder, anumber of the terms of the Relationship regulatory announcements, press releases and updates on the Agreement between the Group and WLR ceased to apply Virgin Money website.
save for certain information rights and the right to appoint The Investor Relations Director reports regularly, and on an ad anominee director which WLR has currently chosen hoc basis as appropriate, to the Board to ensure it is informed not to exercise.
of significant market developments, share price performance Under the Relationship Agreement with Virgin, Virgin has and changes in the shareholder base.
In addition, the Board undertaken that it shall not: receives regular updates from the Groups corporate brokers.
take any action that would preclude or inhibit any member of the Group from operating independently of Virgin: Investor contact take any action that would prevent Virgin Money from In 2015, the Group has engaged in active discussions complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: withshareholders and potential investors, both on an individual basis and through attendance at investor propose any shareholder resolution which is intended to conferences.
The Group intends to develop its investor circumvent the Listing Rules: communications programme further in 2016.
The Group conduct any transactions and arrangements with the willmaintain an active dialogue with shareholders, potential Group other than on an arms length basis and on normal investors and analysts to discuss the performance of the commercial terms: Group, its strategy and new developments.
exercise any voting or other rights and powers to procure Additionally, the Group engaged with institutional investors or propose, or vote in favour of, any resolution for an or their representatives on governance and remuneration amendment to the Articles which would breach the matters in advance of the 2015 AGM and will continue to provisions of the Relationship Agreement or the Listing do so in future.
Rules or the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR, The Group has an Investor Relations section on its website or would prevent the Group from carrying on business which contains information on all disclosures made to the independently of Virgin: market, including results presentations, annual reports, act in any way which it knows will render Virgin interim results and trading statements.
Money unsuitable for continued listing on the London Shareholders, potential investors and analysts are able to Stock Exchange: and ask aquestion on the Group through the Investor Relations vote on any resolution to approve arelated party function or the Group Secretariat.
transaction where Virgin is the related party.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions which contact through the normal channels of Group outlined above have been complied with by Virgin and by WLR Chairman, Chief Executive, CFO or other executives cannot whilst in place, and the Company has complied with the terms resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
He of the Relationship Agreements.
may be contacted through the Company Secretary at Jubilee House, Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 4PL.
indd 94 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 95 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, Company Secretary and retail shareholders the Directors consider the nature and extent of the risks The Company Secretary oversees communication with facing the Group, the likelihood of arisk event occurring and individual retail investors the vast majority of whom are financial impact of failure.
Asystem of internal control is currently colleagues although there has been abroadening designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure ofthe shareholder base throughout 2015. to achieve business objectives.
It can therefore provide only The Groups registrar, Equiniti Limited, provides adedicated reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of shareholder online dealing service to assist shareholders in material misstatement or loss.
Investors can also manage their The policies supporting the Groups risk management shareholdings over the telephone.
framework define minimum standards for controls for all During the year the Group has made specific contact with material risk classes.
shareholders in relation to, amongst others, abank mandate Business areas and support functions assess quarterly the collection exercise for the purpose of payment of the 2015 internal controls in place to address all material risk exposures interim dividend and payment of the interim dividend itself.
This review considers the effectiveness of these material controls, including financial, operational and The Annual General Meeting compliance controls.
The AGM is the principal opportunity for shareholders to An independent external assessment of the effectiveness engage directly with the Board.
It is more commonly used of the Internal Audit function was carried out by Deloitte by retail shareholders as an opportunity to share views and LLP Deloitte in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Details of raise questions during the meeting, but afterwards there the key findings are set out in the Audit Committee is the opportunity to meet the Directors and members of Report on page 101. the Executive.
Further information on the risk control and management is set The Companys first AGM was held in London in May 2015 out in the Risk Management Report on pages 139 to 208. and in excess of80% of total voting rights were voted by shareholders.
Statement of compliance All Board members attended the 2015 AGM and plan to attend UK Corporate Governance Code the AGM in 2016.
All shareholders will be invited to attend the AGM in 2016.
The 2016 AGM will be held on 4 May 2016 The 2014 Code applied to the Groups 2015 financial at the London offices of Allen & Overy LLP.
TheDirectors have considered the contents and the business to be considered at the AGM will be set out in recommendations of the Code and confirm that throughout the Notice of Meeting which will be issued to shareholders, the year Virgin Money has applied the main principles and together with any related documentation, in due course.
complied with the provisions of the Code.
The British Bankers Association Code for Internal control Financial Reporting Disclosure The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Virgin Money has adopted the British Bankers Association control.
The system is designed to facilitate effective and Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2015 Annual efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal Report has been prepared in compliance with its principles.
and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors and senior management are committed to maintaining arobust control framework as the Committee reports foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
The following pages contain reports from each of the TheDirectors acknowledge their responsibilities in relation to Boards Committees.
the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness and conducted such areview during the year.
indd 95 01 03 2016 11:30 96 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended 1 Independent held in 2015 Committee Chair Glen Moreno Yes 4 4 appointed 21 May 2015 Committee members Colin Keogh Yes 6 6 In 2015 we continued to work hard on the composition of the Board to optimise itseffectiveness and support Norman McLuskie Yes 6 6 ourcorporate strategy.
2 Gordon McCallum No 5 6 Glen Moreno Marilyn Spearing Yes 3 3 Chair, Nomination Committee Geeta Gopalan Yes 1 1 appointed 25 November 2015 Former Committee members 3 Sir David Clementi No 2 3 retired 30 June 2015 James B Lockhart III No 4 4 retired 11 September 2015 Olivia Dickson retired 31 December 2015 Yes 6 6 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Conflict with an external appointment.
3 Conflict with an external appointment.
Chairmans overview During 2015, the Nomination Committee continued to keep under review the Groups governance arrangements, including Board composition, succession planning and the effectiveness of the Board and Bank Board and their Committees.
The Committee recommended that the Board appoint Geeta Gopalan as anew Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee also recommended the appointment of Peter Bole as CFO, following Lee Rochfords decision to leave the business in August 2015.
It is expected that Peter will join the business in 2017, following which he will be appointed as an Executive Director.
More on the appointment of Geeta and Peter can be found in this report.
In November the Committee recommended the appointment of Marilyn Spearing a Director since January 2014 as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, following the retirement of Olivia Dickson from the Board on 31 December 2015.
The Committee also noted the retirement in May of Sir David Clementi as Chairman and the retirement of James B Lockhart III, WLRs nominee director, from the Board and Committee in September 2015, following the reduction in WLRs shareholding from 33.5% to 12%.
The Committee continually considers Board composition, tenure and succession plans and aims to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive Director in2016.
During the year, the Committee commissioned an  evaluation of the Board and Committees effectiveness.
The review, carried out by Boardroom Review Limited, offered an independent view of the Boards effectiveness and has provided the Board with aroadmap for Board and Committee development.
Details of the review can be found on pages 92 to 93.
The Committee considered managements succession planning and oversaw the strengthening of the Executive.
Details can be found on pages 97 to 98.
Together, the Directors and Executive continue to bring awealth of experience and expertise to the management and operations oftheGroup.
The Committee monitored changes in regulations, most notably the requirements arising from the new Senior Managers and Certification Regimes to be implemented in March 2016.
This included the approval of the new statements of responsibilities and associated role profiles foreach of the Non-Executive Directors who will be Senior Managers.
indd 96 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 97 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Nomination Committee Report Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards perspectives to the Board and its decision making.
It also composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence ensures appropriate representation on each of the Boards and succession arrangements under review.
The Committee Committees and planning for longer term succession.
makes recommendations to the Board to ensure that the Work is underway to assess the collective technical Groups arrangements are consistent with good corporate and governance skills required from the Non-Executive governance standards.
The Committees role also extends Directors to support the future business strategy, with the to appointments to the Board of the Groups material aim to develop askills matrix to enable enhanced longersubsidiaries including the Bank.
term succession planning: Examples of how the Committee discharged its considered the adequacy of succession arrangements for responsibilities during the year are set out below.
Full the Executive Director and members of the Executive.
The details of the Committees responsibilities are set out in the Chairman is responsible for developing and maintaining Committee terms of reference which were updated in January asuccession plan in relation to the Chief Executive, 2016 and can be found on the website at virginmoney.
com who is in turn primarily responsible for developing and virgin investor-relations.
maintaining asuccession plan for key leadership positions in the Executive team.
Following areview of the structure During the year the Committee met its key objectives and and succession planning of the Executive, Hugh Chater carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the has been appointed as Chief Commercial Officer with annual effectiveness review.
responsibilities for the full range of existing Virgin Money products, including credit cards.
He will join the business Committee composition, skills and experience by June 2016 and brings deep experience of retail banking: began aprocess of strengthening the composition, To ensure abroad representation of independent views, diversity and experience of the Board leading to the including perspectives from each of the Committees, appointment of Geeta Gopalan as aNon-Executive membership of the Nomination Committee comprises the Director on 25 June 2015.
Egon Zehnder, an external Chairman, all Independent Non-Executive Directors Geeta search consultant with no other connection to the Group, Gopalan joined the Committee in November 2015 and the was appointed to assist in the identification of appropriate Virgin nominee director.
Geetas perspective and experience candidates.
Details of Geetas experience areset gained from being aNon-Executive Director on other boards out on page 76: as well as her prior executive career further complements the composition of the Committee.
The Chief Executive and, if recommended the appointment of Marilyn Spearing as required, the HR Director attend meetings as appropriate.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee in place of Olivia Dickson.
Marilyn has been amember of the Remuneration Committee since January 2014 and brings awealth of How the Nomination Committee spent experience in managing organisational, operational itstime in 2015 and structural change and has adeep understanding of remuneration and risk governance: and Board and Executive succession The Committee: in January 2016 recommended the appointment of PeterBole as CFO.
Details of the recruitment process oversaw the Boards arrangements for the longerareset out on page 98. term succession of Board and Committee members.
Non-Executive Director succession planning is addressed The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Executive as part of the ongoing review of Board composition.
The is staffed appropriately and the Committee will continue to approach takes into account the need to refresh the intake ensure robust succession planning remains under review.
of Non-Executive Directors to bring new and diverse 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
indd 97 01 03 2016 11:30 98 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Recruitment of Chief Financial Officer During the second half of 2015 the search for aCFO was commenced.
of the Chief Executive, Chairman, SID and HR Director.
Following Odgers Berndtson Odgers was appointed to support the executive thiscomprehensive search process overseen by the Committee, search on the basis of their strength in finance appointments and Peter Bole was appointed CFO.
Peter is expected to join Virgin Money their overall market reputation.
Odgers has no other connection as CFO in 2017, following which he will be appointed as an Executive withtheGroup.
Aspecification for the role and profile of the candidate was agreed by Peter brings with him extensive experience in UK retail banking.
the Committee in conjunction with the Chief Executive.
Key attributes He is currently CFO of Tesco Bank, where he has led the Finance for the position include afocus on financial technical strength, Function since 2009.
Peter has previously held various senior roles in credibility as an Executive Director of the Group, executive leadership the finance function at RBS, where he was involved in the migration capability and market impact.
Dave Dyer, who was appointed CFO in August 2015, following Lee Rochfords decision to leave the business, Odgers analysed the market for possible candidates with abreadth of will continue to hold the position until he hands over responsibilities diversity, experience and background.
Ashort list was produced from to Peter ensuring continuity whilst succession is enabled.
which four potential candidates were interviewed by acombination Composition, skills and independence The Committee is responsible for the ongoing assessment The Committee reviewed the role, including capabilities and of the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, time commitments of the Chairman, SID, Non-Executive the re-appointment or re-election of Directors and their Directors and the Chief Executive.
In particular, the Committee suitability to continue in office.
considered the impact of limits placed by CRD IV on the number of directorships that can be held by the Directors.
In assessing independence, the Committee considered both The Committee is comfortable to recommend the re-election the Code requirements on independence and factors such as or election of all Directors, as at the date of this report, length of tenure and ability of the Non-Executive Directors toshareholders at the forthcoming 2016 AGM.
to provide an objective challenge to the Executive, free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
It also took account of any relationships Effectiveness that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based Details of the methodology, process followed, conclusions on its assessment for 2015, the Committee is satisfied that, and key recommendations from the Board Effectiveness throughout the year or their period of appointment, Colin Evaluation is set out in the case study on pages 92 to 93 Keogh, Norman McLuskie, Marilyn Spearing and Geeta oftheCorporate Governance Report.
Gopalan remained independent as to both character and judgement and that Glen Moreno was considered independent The key conclusion of the review, which formed the basis on his appointment.
The nominee director Gordon McCallum of the Board and Committee annual effectiveness review, is not considered to be independent due to his relationship was that the Board and Committees continue to operate with the Groups controlling shareholder, Virgin.
Patrick effectively, although there are opportunities to improve McCall is not considered to be independent since he was effectiveness.
appointed to the Board as the representative director of The Committee will monitor the Boards progress against the VirginEnterprises Limited VEL pursuant to the Virgin agreed roadmap recommendations and priorities in 2016, MoneyTrade Mark Licence Agreement.
with the Chairman scheduled to meet again with Dr Long in six to twelve months time to discuss progress made and actions taken against the recommendations.
indd 98 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 99 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Nomination Committee Report Diversity During the course of the year, the Board reviewed the Groups performance against the Board approved Diversity Policy.
The policy sets out the approach to diversity for each of the main Boards within the Group.
Under the Board Diversity Policy, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Groups Boards to ensure that membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense.
The combination of personalities on the Boards provides agood range of perspectives and improves the quality of decision making.
In 2015, the Board continued to focus on improving diversity.
The percentage of female representation on the Board significantly exceeds the objective of 25% set out in the Board Diversity Policy and exceeds the Davies Report requirements.
The revised Board Diversity Policy will introduce along-term objective of gender equality and afocus on other forms of diversity on the Board.
Achieving full compliance with the Board Diversity Policy is acontinual focus and one which the Committee will monitor during 2016, as the search for an additional Non-Executive Director gets underway.
Please see pages 33 to 34 of the Strategic Report for details of the Groups Diversity Policy as awhole.
Glen Moreno Chair, Nomination Committee 1 March 2016 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
indd 99 01 03 2016 11:30 100 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended 1 Independent held in 2015 Committee Chair 2 Norman McLuskie Yes 9 10 Committee members Colin Keogh Yes 10 10 In 2015, the Audit Committee has overseen the Groups Marilyn Spearing Yes 10 10 firstfull annual cycle of financial reporting as alisted Geeta Gopalan companyandarobust external audit tender process.
3 appointed 25 June 2015 Yes 3 4 Norman McLuskie 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
Chair, Audit Committee 2 Apologies due to illness.
Chairmans overview The Audit Committee has fulfilled its responsibilities and met its key objectives, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
A formal competitive tender for external audit services was undertaken during the year.
The Committee oversaw the tender process which involved athorough and robust assessment of the firms involved, including the incumbent firm KPMG, details of which are set out on page102.
After careful consideration of the strength of each proposal, the Board accepted the recommendation from the Committee to appoint PwC as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Accordingly, subject to shareholders approval, PwC will be appointed as auditor for the 2016 financial year.
The Committee would like to thank KPMG for their significant contribution as auditor and for their consistently high standards of professionalism in executing the role.
The Committee reviewed anumber of key accounting judgements relevant to the financial statements, including afocus on the calculation of effective interest rate, impairment provisioning, cost capitalisation, deferred tax and fair values of financial instruments.
Akey addition to the 2015 Annual Report is the inclusion of aviability statement as required by the Code.
This can be found within the Risk Overview section onpages52 to 53.
The Committee oversaw the process for the recruitment of the new Internal Audit Director, David Barnes, who was appointed to the role in May 2015.
The Committee continues to be satisfied with the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
This view was reinforced by the conclusions from the independent review carried out by Deloitte LLP in the final quarter of 2015, details of which are set out on page 101.
Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the The Committee acts independently of management.
Groups financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness Thisensures that the interests of shareholders are properly of its internal controls and risk management framework, protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
the internal and external audit processes and the Groups Following the appointment of Geeta Gopalan as amember, the whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee reports to the Committee now comprises four Independent Non-Executive Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of Directors with recent and relevant experience in finance and or which have been accepted during the year.
Norman McLuskie is achartered accountant and has significant financial and banking experience in the UK listed The key activities of the Committee are set out below and environment enabling him tofulfilthe role as Audit Committee afull list of the Committees responsibilities is detailed in Chair.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, CFO, Chief Risk Officer the Committees terms of reference which were updated and Internal Audit Director attend committee meetings.
in January 2016 and can be found on the website at Theexternal auditor also attends.
indd 100 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 101 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Audit Committee Report How the Committee spent its time in 2015 Financial reporting Internal audit A key responsibility of the Committee is to review the content In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of the internal of the Annual Report, interim accounts and quarterly trading audit function and their audit programme, the Committee: statements.
In doing so, the Committee: considered the effectiveness of the function, including the reviewed the Annual Report to ensure that, taken as commissioning of an independent external assessment, awhole, based on the information supplied to it and carried out by Deloitte LLP, which concluded that the challenged by the Committee and on its judgement is function generally conforms with the Standards and Code fair, balanced and understandable and advised the Board of Ethics issued by the Chartered Institute of Internal to that effect: Auditors CIIA.
Some areas were identified where further work is needed to conform fully to some of the more reviewed and challenged the going concern and viability challenging areas of the CIIAs 2013 Guidance, Effective assessment undertaken by management.
Further detail internal audit in the financial services sector.
Aprioritised can be found on pages 52 to 53: action plan has been prepared to address these areas: reviewed and challenged, where necessary, the actions, approved the audit plan and budget and monitored estimates and judgements of management: and progress against it at regular intervals, confirming that monitored the integrity of the financial statements of appropriate resources and capability were in place to the Group and reviewed the critical accounting policies, execute the plan effectively and considered internal audit disclosure obligations and changes in accounting to have sufficient standing in the Group: requirements.
considered the regular internal audit reports, including The Committee also ensured that the Groups Pillar 3 thematic and routine reviews on prudential and regulatory disclosures satisfied the prescribed requirements.
compliance, customer conduct, credit risk, IT and financial controls, discussing major findings and managements responses: and Internal control and risk management oversaw the process for recruitment of anew Internal Full details of the internal control and risk management Audit Director, and approved the appointment of David systems in relation to the financial reporting process are Barnes to the role.
given within the Corporate Governance Report at page 95 and the Risk Management Report on pages 145 to 149.
Specific matters that the Committee considered during the Whistleblowing year included: The Committee received and considered reports from internal the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial audit on the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including reporting and risk management: line activity and ongoing reviews of the revised whistleblowing policy and governance structure.
the extent of the work undertaken by the finance teams and considering the resources required to be deployed to The Committee considered the PRA and FCA policy ensure that the control environment continued to operate statements containing new rules on whistleblowing published effectively: and in October 2015.
The Chair of the Committee has been appointed as the whistleblowing champion and areview of the the major findings of internal investigations into control Groups processes is underway to ensure compliance with the weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements new regime by September 2016. response alongside any control deficiencies identified.
The Committee is satisfied that internal controls over financial reporting and risk management systems were appropriately designed and operating effectively during the period under review.
indd 101 01 03 2016 11:30 102 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report External audit Auditor tenure The Committee oversaw the relationship with the external The Committee took the decision in the first quarter of auditor and considered the terms of engagement including 2015 to tender the audit of the Group.
The tender resulted remuneration, their effectiveness, their continued in the Board accepting the recommendation from the Audit independence and their objectivity.
In particular, the Committee: Committee to appoint PwC as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016, subject to shareholders approval approved the annual audit plan and negotiated and at the 2016 AGM.
Further detail of the process is given in the agreedthe auditors remuneration: case study below.
reviewed the findings of the external audit including key The Committee is satisfied that the Company has complied, judgements and the level of challenge produced by the during the financial year under review and up to the date of external auditor: this report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services considered managements responsiveness to the external for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory auditors findings and recommendations: and Use of Competitor Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. considered the continued effectiveness of the audit process and the external auditors performance, including technical competence, strategic knowledge, quality control, communication and reporting through an internal effectiveness review.
External Audit Tender Background audit team, an outline of the proposed audit and transition approach, asummary of the proposed fees, evidence of the firms cultural Virgin Money appointed KPMG as its external auditor in 2004.
KPMG alignment to Virgin Money and details of any value added services was approved as auditor of the enlarged Virgin Money Group in 2012, oradditional features that would be provided as part of the service: following the acquisition of Northern Rock plc.
Although areview of the audit arrangements took place at the time, no formal audit Stage 3 stakeholder engagement for non-incumbent firms.
The Committee confirmed in the Groups To increase business understanding and build relationships, the 2014 Annual Report that, in light of developments in relation to the remaining two non-incumbent firms met with anumber of the reform of the external audit market, the Committee would undertake Group senior management team.
KPMG had access to the same aformal competitive tender in 2015, with aview to appointing anew stakeholders as part of their ongoing audit role: audit firm, or re-appointing KPMG, for the 2016 external audit.
Stage 4 submission of awritten proposal document.
In June 2015, the Committee took the decision to invite KPMG, The participant firms submitted their written proposal documents PwC, Deloitte and Ernst & Young LLP to tender for the Group audit and supporting due diligence information to the Group.
These onthe grounds that they each have the technical expertise, resources documents were assessed and rated against the selection criteria and national coverage required to provide acomprehensive service which involved qualification, expertise, resources and cost: and totheGroup.
Governance The participant firms presented their audit proposals to the The proposal to tender was overseen by the Committee.
Audit tender SelectionPanel which, at this stage, also included the Chair of the processes are time consuming: as aresult, the Committee was Board RiskCommittee.
mindful to use aconcise yet thorough process.
The tender process involved five key stages, which are summarised below: Throughout the process, the Committee was mindful of the need to preserve the independence of the external audit.
As aresult, at the Stage 1 initial management meeting.
outset, each firm was required to disclose all existing relationships The non-incumbent firms each met with the Chief Executive, Chair with the Group and explain their proposals for ensuring that of the Audit Committee, CFO and Finance Director the Selection those relationships would not cause any conflict of interest after Panel.
These sessions allowed the Group to gain insight into the 1 January 2016, were the firm to be appointed as auditor.
experience, qualification and fit of the proposed audit teams: Outcome Stage 2 request for proposal RFP.
After careful consideration of each proposal, the Board accepted the An RFP was issued to KPMG and two other firms which included recommendation from the Committee to appoint PwC as external guidance on the selection criteria and arequest to provide detailed auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Accordingly, subject information on matters which were key to the Committees to shareholder approval at the AGM in 2016, PwC will be appointed assessment of each bid.
This included: confirmation of the proposed asexternal auditor for 2016.
indd 102 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 103 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Audit Committee Report from the Audit Committee Chair.
The total amount paid to Auditor independence and remuneration the external auditor in 2015 was 1.3 million.
Details of the fornon-audit services payments for audit and non-audit service provided in 2015 Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards is shown in note 6 to the financial statements.
in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the An additional policy on the employment of former external external auditor.
The Committee has acomprehensive policy, auditors staff is in place to further preserve the independence refreshed in 2015, to regulate the use of the auditor for nonof the external auditor.
This policy sets out the nature of work that the external auditor may not undertake, including financial information system design and implementation.
Financial reporting In some cases, the external auditor may be selected over During 2015, the Committee considered the following key another service provider due to their detailed knowledge financial issues and judgements in relation to the Groups and understanding of the business.
Any allowable non-audit financial statements and disclosures, with input from services with avalue above 250,000 requires approval management and the external auditor: Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Effective Interest Rate EIR Interest earned on loans and receivables is recognised using the EIR method.
EIR is calculated on the initial recognition of mortgage The application of the EIR method of accounting is judgemental and and credit card lending through adiscounted cash flow model that requires management to make anumber of assumptions.
incorporates fees, costs and other premiums or discounts.
There have been no changes to the EIR accounting policies applied for mortgages and credit cards during the year.
The Committee spent time understanding and challenging the judgements taken and the EIR methodology applied by management including expected future customer behaviours.
Time was also spent considering the appropriate EIR methodology for credit cards in light ofthe planned growth in balances.
The Committee agreed that managements judgement was appropriate as at 31 December 2015.
The disclosures relating to EIR are set out in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables The Committee received regular reports from management in relation to impairment provisioning for the secured and the unsecured Determining the appropriateness of impairment losses is judgemental creditportfolio.
and requires the Group to make anumber of assumptions.
The Committee considered and challenged the provisioning methodology applied by management, including the results of statistical loan loss models to support the impairment provisions.
TheCommittee considered the calibration of model parameters in thelight of economic indicators including house price movements, andunderlying book performance.
The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions, including managements judgements, were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 1.10 to the financialstatements.
indd 103 01 03 2016 11:30 104 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Capitalisation and impairment of intangibles Over the course of 2015 there has been significant investment spend, in particular in relation to new office software for employee workstations Determining the appropriateness of costs that qualify for recognition and further development of the Groups digital banking channel.
The as intangible assets requires management judgement.
Management Committee has considered and is satisfied with the appropriateness are also required to make ongoing assessments of whether any assets of the accounting recognition of these investment costs, including are impaired.
No assets were identified as impaired through reviews for those costs that qualify for recognition as intangible assets in line with indicators of impairment.
the criteria prescribed by accounting standards.
The Committee has also considered managements reviews for indicators of impairment and is satisfied with the conclusion that no assets require impairment adjustment.
The disclosures relating to the movement in intangible asset balances during the year are set out in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
Recoverability of the deferred tax asset The Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular the forecast taxable profits based on the Groups three-year The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities strategic plan.
inrespect of timing differences in the main trading subsidiaries.
The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the Based on the Groups forecast taxable profit, the losses are expected deferred tax assets were appropriately supported by forecast tobe fully utilised in the near to medium term.
taxable profits, taking into account the Groups long-term financial and strategic plans.
This assessment incorporated impacts of the tax measures and surcharge on banking profits announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the 2015 Summer Budget Statement.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax assets are set out in note 1.10 tothe financial statements.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The Committee spent time understanding and assessing judgements applied and agreed with managements judgement regarding the The Group use estimates and judgements in the calculation of fair calculation of fair values in 2015. values for assets and liabilities where not all inputs to calculations are observable in the market, or where there are factors specific to The disclosures relating to fair value are set out in note 1.10 to the anindividual instrument that impact fair values.
Norman McLuskie Chair, Audit Committee 1 March 2016 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
indd 104 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 105 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Board Risk Committee Report Membership and meetings Board Risk Balance Sheet Committee Committee Meetings Meetings attended attended 1 1 Independent held in 2015 held in 2015 Committee Chair Colin Keogh Yes 5 5 2 2 Risk Committee Our priority is ensuring that risk management 2 Norman McLuskie Yes 5 5 1 2 is at the heart of our strategic delivery.
Balance Sheet Committee Colin Keogh Committee members Chair, Board Risk Committee Marilyn Spearing Yes 5 5 2 2 Geeta Gopalan 3 appointed 25 June 2015 Yes 1 2 Former Committee members 3 Olivia Dickson retired Yes 4 5 2 2 31 December 2015 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
Chairmans overview I am pleased to report that the Board Risk Committee fulfilled its responsibilities and met its key objectives during 2015.
The annual effectiveness review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
Following areview of our corporate governance framework, the Balance Sheet and Board Risk Committees were merged to remove duplication in reporting and ensure more effective use of time.
Responsibility for the oversight of balance sheet matters transferred to the Committee from July 2015.
This report contains information relating to both Committees for simplicity referred to as the Committee and I would like to thank Norman McLuskie for his chairmanship of the Balance Sheet Committee during the first half of the year.
The Committee maintained an appropriate balance, monitoring key risks whilst maintaining adynamic approach, so that emerging risks were appropriately considered and management actions constructively challenged.
The Committee also continued to monitor the Groups risk management framework and the embedding of asuitable risk culture.
The Committee contributed to the oversight of key strategic programmes.
This included the migration of the credit card business from MBNA and the launch of our new cards business.
Further detail is set out in the case study on page 107.
Virgin Money continues to operate in amature and increasingly competitive UK financial services market.
In addition to UK macro economic and market risks the Committee considered the impact of geo-political uncertainty from other regions and ongoing changes in the regulatory environment including the introduction of the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio.
The stress and scenario testing undertaken by management has given the Committee continued confidence in the Groups ability to mitigate these risks.
Reverse stress testing was also undertaken to explore the vulnerabilities of the Groups strategies and plans and also to improve contingency planning.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to monitor the Groups Examples of the way in which the Committee discharged compliance with the Boards approved risk appetite, risk its responsibilities during the year are set out below.
Full management framework and risk culture.
details of the Committees responsibilities are set out in 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
indd 105 01 03 2016 11:30 106 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee Report the Committee terms of reference these were updated In November 2015, the Committee reviewed and in 2015 to include certain responsibilities of the Balance recommended to the Board for approval the Risk Sheet Committee and can be found on our website at Appetite Policy developed in line with Financial Stability virginmoney.
Risk culture Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee is responsible for overseeing managements During the year, the Committee welcomed Geeta Gopalan as embedding of the risk culture and values throughout the amember on 25 June and Olivia Dickson retired as amember Group.
During the year, the Committee: on 31 December.
The Committee now comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors who have avariety supported policies, role profiles and training which of industry backgrounds, including banking and financial ensured that there is clear understanding of expected services.
The members of the Committee have adeep behaviour and good practice: and understanding of risk management and bring extensive received ahead of the Remuneration Committee experience and abroader perspective to the oversight reports from the Chief Risk Officer relating to executive of risk management.
The Chair is also amember of the incentive schemes and considered whether there were any Audit Committee.
performance issues or breaches that would require arisk The Chairman, Chief Executive, CFO, Chief Risk Officer and adjustment to be made to the respective award.
Further Group Treasurer attend Committee meetings.
The external details on executive remuneration can be found in the auditor also attends most meetings.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 112 to 115.
Further details on the Groups risk culture can be found in the Risk Management Report on page 140.
How the Board Risk Committee spent itstime in 2015 Risk framework Set out below is asummary of the key matters considered by The Committee has akey role in relation to the Groups risk the Committee in 2015. management framework and during the year: reviewed new and material amendments to the Groups Risk appetite risk framework and policies recommended by the Chief The Committee considered the Groups risk appetite.
In Risk Officer: particular, the Committee: oversaw adherence to Group policies and standards and carried out the annual review of risk appetite alongside the monitored any action taken resulting from material policy strategic plan, to reflect the Groups latest commercial, breaches: and economic and regulatory views, considering the statements and risk appetite metrics under each category received reporting on the Groups exposure to current and of identified risk: emerging risks as outlined by the framework.
received regular detailed risk reports analysing In November 2015, the Committee conducted its annual current and forecast performance against risk review of the Groups risk management framework to ensure appetite metrics: and it remains robust and effective and concluded that it remains so.
The review was undertaken as part of the risk review of considered and challenged proposed changes the strategic plan and concluded that the risk management to risk appetite measures and made appropriate framework is effective in design and management of risk recommendations to the Board.
and supportive of strategy and risk appetite.
Further details Further details on the Groups risk appetite can be found of the risk management framework can be found in the Risk intheRisk Management Report on page 140.
Management Report on pages 148 to 149.
indd 106 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 107 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Board Risk Committee Report Risk management The Committee considered the Groups approach to risk received reports and monitored the Groups approach management, and regulatory developments.
In particular to regulatory developments and the emerging macro the Committee: economic and competitive landscape: reviewed the capability, resources, remit and authority reviewed and challenged managements development levels of the risk function, and concluded that the risk of scenario planning and stress testing as part of the function was adequately resourced and continued to be regulatory capital requirements and preparation of the sufficiently independent with appropriate authority and Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP : and standing within the Group: reviewed the Groups arrangements for detecting fraud reviewed regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer and preventing bribery and concluded that all core summarising the main risks within the business, providing elements of the anti-money laundering framework supporting quantitative data and additional commentary: areinplace and operating effectively.
reviewed regular reports from the Group Treasurer on More information on the Groups approach to risk matters relating to the management of the balance sheet: management can be found on pages 140 to 149. Credit Card migration Background Migration event planning In addition to comprehensive data In 2014, Virgin Money announced that it intended to grow the credit mapping exercises, two full dress rehearsals were undertaken to validate the detailed migration plans.
Findings from both events card book to 3 billion by 2018.
In order to achieve this it developed were incorporated into the plan for the live migration event.
anew credit card platform in partnership with leading system Senior management in risk conducted an independent scenario provider, TSYS, which allowed the Group to migrate its existing business to the new platform and originate new lending.
assessment looking at what could go wrong with the migration exercise.
As aresult of the scenario assessment, management put The safe migration of over 675,000 customer accounts to the new in place additional trained contact centre resource in anticipation platform was asignificant business change programme which had to of an increase in customer contact following migration.
Reviewing be delivered within risk appetite, on time and with minimal customer the adequacy of contingency planning enabled the Committee and reputational impact.
to review and monitor the risk profile of the Group.
TheGroup set Virgin Money began offering credit card products to the public aside asubstantial amount of additional capital for the potential using the new platform in February 2015, and by March 2015 had issues which may have arisen from the migration of credit card successfully migrated over 675,000 credit card customers from our customers to the new platform and implementation of the existing administrator onto the new platform.
Board Risk Committee role Migration event Members of the Risk Executive were on site throughout the migration event to assist when required.
The Committee assisted the Board in overseeing the management of Acommand and control structure was in place to ensure that the risks arising from the programme and ensured that independent risk Executive were aware of, and able to respond to, issues as they oversight activity was completed, with regular reports on the status of arose.
this work and areas of challenge provided by the Chief Risk Officer.
Post implementation Monitoring of credit card business following Platform build Initial work to build the platform was heavily migration was performed to ensure the prompt identification focused on credit and fraud risk management and included the and resolution of issues, with routine reporting now embedded.
creation of acquisition and behavioural scorecards as well as Command and control structures remained in place to ensure customer management and collection recovery strategies.
Before the appropriate escalation of issues.
The Committee was regularly switching to the new platform, risk oversight activity focused on informed of issues and the actions to address them, enabling them evaluating the new systems security, performance and resilience.
Work on financial crime prevention and detection arrangements included the validation of application fraud strategies, Outcome transactional alert systems and operational readiness.
Reports The Committee was satisfied that the key risk exposures were were made to the Committee by the Chief Risk Officer toallow appropriately managed within risk appetite.
Risk supported the ittodischarge its duty to monitor the operation of the Group within business decision to go live with the migration and the activity risk appetite.
completed successfully, with Virgin Money servicing all migrated customers from23 March 2015.
indd 107 01 03 2016 11:30 108 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee Report Significant risks considered by the Committee Set out below are some of the significant risks facing the Group that were considered by the Committee in 2015.
Further detail on the Groups principal risks can be found in the Risk Overview on pages 50 to 53.
Risks were carefully mitigated through rigorous risk and project management disciplines to ensure safe implementation.
Significant risks Board Risk Committee review Credit risk The Committee monitored retail credit risk performance against the Groups risk appetite metrics and policies.
The Committee considered the quality of lending and detailed reports on exposures to concentrated areas.
These reviews led to the Committee approving changes to Group policy or risk appetite to reduce exposure inthese regions.
Operational risks The Committee received regular updates across operational risk including change programme management, incident management, outsourcing management and IT resilience including financial crime.
The Committee monitors risks inherent with major outsource providers and received regular updates on their performance andresilience.
The Committee continued to oversee the delivery of the Group information security programme to mitigate the threat of cyber attack.
The Committee also received the annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer which concluded that all core elements of Virgin Moneys anti-money laundering framework are in place and operating effectively.
Conduct risk and compliance The Committee received regular detailed updates from management on regulatory developments and upstream risk.
The Committee assessed the impact of those developments on the Groups balance sheet, operational processes, systems and controls.
Funding and liquidity risk The Committee reviewed and challenged the current and forecast funding and liquidity positions.
The Committee considered reports on funding sources to ensure aprudent mix was maintained within risk appetite and policy limits.
Balance sheet growth has been supported by the establishment of an MTN programme in April 2015.
Thisenhanced the Groups funding mix to support growth and diversified its investor base.
Capital The Committee monitored, reviewed and challenged management reports concerning the quality of the capital base and the forecast capital position considering the projected capital resources to ensure that the Group complies with current regulatory capital requirements and is well positioned to meet future requirements.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the PRA UK Variant Stress Test scenarios published during the year.
In addition, the Committee focused on specific scenarios designed by management.
Colin Keogh Chair, Board Risk Committee 1 March 2016 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
indd 108 01 03 2016 11:30 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 109 I Board of Directors 74 Virgin Money Executive 79 Corporate Governance Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 111 Directors Report 135 2 54 139 209 Remuneration Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended 1 Independent held in 2015 Committee Chair Marilyn Spearing Yes 7 7 2 appointed 1 January 2016 Committee members We continue to strive to ensure that our remuneration Norman McLuskie Yes 7 7 policiesand practices fairly reward our Directors and Geeta Gopalan Yes 2 2 colleagues, support the delivery of the Groups strategy appointed 25 June 2015 andthe creation of shareholder value.
Former Committee members Marilyn Spearing Sir David Clementi No 4 4 retired 21 May 2015 Chair, Remuneration Committee Olivia Dickson 3 retired 31 December 2015 Yes 7 7 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Ms Spearing was appointed as Chair of the Committee from 1 January 2016, having being amember since January 2014.
3 Mrs Dickson retired from the Board and as Chair of the Committee on 31 December 2015.
Chairs overview I became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2016, following Olivia Dicksons retirement from the Board on 31 December 2015.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank Olivia for the contribution made with regard to remuneration matters in preparation for the Groups listing and first year as alisted company.
I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues during 2016.
I am pleased to report that good progress continues to be made on remuneration matters and their governance over the past year, despite the challenges of acontinually changing regulatory environment.
In my view, and as confirmed by the Board Effectiveness Evaluation, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively.
2015 was abusy year for the Committee, as aresult of afull remuneration agenda and the development of arobust reward framework in the form of the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2015 and the Group-wide Internal Remuneration Policy for all colleagues.
Both policies are designed to mitigate key regulatory and people risks associated with reward decisions and support sustainable growth, consistent with the risk appetite framework agreed with the Board.
We were delighted that 99.4% of our shareholders approved our first one-year Directors Remuneration Policy, which was subject to abinding vote at our 2015 AGM.
The implementation section of the Directors Remuneration Report, along with the statement by the Chair of the Committee, also achieved an advisory 99.9% vote in favour.
While the outcome of this resolution is not binding on the Group, it is of key importance to the Committee that its decisions are supported by the Groups shareholders.
We look forward to presenting our new policy for approval at the 2016 AGM.
If the new policy is approved, it will apply for amaximum of three years from the date of the AGM.
In January 2016 we consulted with anumber of our major shareholders to gather their views on remuneration and, in particular, the key changes arising from the new policy.
We also consulted with our main regulators, the FCA and PRA, throughout the year regarding our new policy.
We are grateful for the supportive feedback we have received from all parties.
During 2015, the Committee has continued to strive to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices detailed in the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Remuneration Implementation Report fairly reward our Directors, support the delivery of the Groups strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
As aresult we hope you will support the resolutions relating to remuneration at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee dedicated significant time in 2015 and early 2016 to assessing the impact of ongoing changes to the regulatory environment concerning remuneration, in particular the implications of the PRAs deferral requirements on variable remuneration and considering the new European Banking Association EBA guidelines on sound remuneration policies issued in December 2015.
The Committee also approved the continued appointment of PwC as Committee advisers until the 2016 AGM, when PwC is to be put forward as the Groups new auditor.
Subject to the shareholders approving the appointment of PwC, Deloitte will act from May 2016 as sole advisor to the Committee in addition to its current role advising management.
The Committee is comfortable that appropriate controls are in place to avoid any compromise to PwCs independence during this transitional period.
The Committee would like to thank PwC for their significant contribution as remuneration advisers and for their consistently high standards of professionalism in executing this role.
indd 109 01 03 2016 11:30 110 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee Report Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is aligned with the longterm interests of the Group.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities are set out in the Committee terms of reference which were updated in February 2016 and can be found on our website at virginmoney.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee comprises solely Independent Non-Executive Directors from awide variety of backgrounds to provide abalanced and independent view on remuneration matters.
All Committee members have considerable experience in the financial services sector and asound foundation in remuneration and risk governance.
The Committee was pleased to welcome Geeta Gopalan as amember in June 2015.
Geeta brings strong experience from her role on avariety of Boards in awide range of sectors.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, HR Director, HR Director Reward and Patrick McCall attend Committee meetings.
Deloitte, who act as managements remuneration adviser andPwC, as the Committees remuneration adviser, attend most Committee meetings.
How the Committee spent its time in 2015 An overview of how the Committee discharged its responsibilities and its key activities during the year can befound in the Committee Chairs Statement on page111 and in the Implementation Report of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 122 to 123.
Marilyn Spearing Chair, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 4175 VM 1.1 Corporate Governance.
