I II: Corporate Governance III Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction CHANGES TO THE BOARD Board and Committee changes during 2015 and early 2016 were as follows: Lord Robertson retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015.
He therefore also ceased to be Senior Independent Director, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, on that date.
Rick Menell was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 February 2015.
Alan Ferguson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 February 2015.
Melanie Gee was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 18 June 2015.
Dean Jenkins was appointed as an Executive Director CHARLES BERRY on 1 January 2016.
Chairman Keith Ruddock retired as Company Secretary on 18 December 2015 and Andrew Neilson was The Board is committed to the highest standards appointed to this role on the same date.
Under my Chairmanship, Changes in the membership of the Board enable fresh the Board is responsible for ensuring that these perspectives to be brought to different aspects of the high standards and the Companys values and Groups governance framework.
We continue to review behaviours are consistently applied throughout the the Board composition and have spent time on succession planning to ensure that we continue to evolve Group.
These elements are critical to the integrity as a Board, enabling us to further enhance our leadership of our business and we strive to continually evolve of the Group.
best practice and procedures to deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
During 2015, as part of the review of the current composition of the Board, it was determined that to enhance the balance of skills and experience at Board The following Corporate Governance Report, including the Committee level, it would be advantageous to create a new role Reports and the Directors Report, set out how we apply these governance of Chief Operating Officer.
As a result, Dean Jenkins, standards in practice and demonstrate our compliance with the UK Corporate a former Divisional Managing Director and Member of the Governance Code.
Group Executive, was appointed in January 2016.
Further details are contained in the Nomination Committee UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Report on page 87.
In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as well as guidance on Risk BOARD INDUCTIONS Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The induction of our new Directors and Committee Key changes included disclosures with regards to longer-term viability, risk members remains an important focus, and we continue management and internal controls, as well as Directors remuneration.
Both the to work hard towards providing a comprehensive Audit and Remuneration Committees, along with the Board, undertook reviews programme which allows new members to contribute of current practices to ensure that the Company effectively managed the most effectively.
The induction programme is tailored required changes to our governance arrangements and now operate with according to the background and knowledge of each regard to these additional disclosures.
This is the first year that we have been required to report under the revised During 2015 and the start of 2016, Sir Jim McDonald Code, and I am pleased to report that the Company has complied fully with all and Dean Jenkins both received inductions following the principles of the Code for the 52 weeks to 1 January 2016, and from that their appointments to the Board.
Full details can be date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, with the exception of one found on page 83. part of a provision which is detailed on page 76.
The most significant change to this years Annual Report as a result of the updated Code is the inclusion of a new viability statement.
This is a statement based on the Boards assessment of the Companys current position as well as its assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and their potential CHARLES BERRY impact on its future development and prospects.
This new disclosure is contained Chairman in the How We Manage Risk section of the Annual Report on page 29.
24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders The Board sets the tone The Board operates The Board The Board ensures an of the Company with effectively for the maintains sound open and transparent The Board maintains regards to corporate long-term success risk management remuneration policy an open dialogue with governance and of the Company.
and internal control for the effective shareholders and Board ensures the application The Board members systems and has recruitment and members attend of the Companys demonstrate the well established retention of Board investor events globally.
correct balance committees to assist members and Company Read more on p85 It demonstrates the of skills, experience, it in the undertaking employees.
clear division of independence and of its duties.
Read more on p85 responsibilities knowledge and are able Read more on p84 and the constructive to commit sufficient challenge and time to undertake development the duties and of strategy.
Read more on p76 Read more on p81 THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as Board composition and effectiveness, the role of Board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Paper and downloadable versions can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council via its website at frc.
As a listed company, we must detail how we have complied with the Code and provide an explanation of instances where we have not.
This report, in addition to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
For the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, except in the instance of one part of a provision detailed below, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
Code provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
During 2015, Lord Robertson and Rick Menell undertook engagement with various stakeholders but neither attended meetings with a range of major shareholders in their role as Senior Independent Director.
It is considered that the Company has a robust Investor Relations department who oversee such meetings and that there are sufficient processes in place for the issues and concerns of major shareholders to be communicated to all members of the Board, and in particular, if necessary, to the Chairman, such that it is not necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend these meetings.
They were willing to attend such meetings had the need arisen.
The Board does not feel that this in any way impeded its good corporate governance and believes that the practice was in compliance with the main and supporting principles under section E of the Code regarding dialogue with shareholders.
Further details of the Companys relations with its shareholders can be found on page 85.
Leadership BOARD COMPOSITION During 2015, the Board comprised two Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors.
In January 2016, the number of Executive Directors rose to three on the appointment of Dean Jenkins as Chief Operating Officer.
Lord Robertson retired as Senior Independent Director and as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 January 2015.
Lord Robertson was succeeded by Rick Menell as Senior Independent Director.
The current Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are as follows: Table of the Board of Directors Name Designation Date of Appointment Date of most recent re-election Charles Berry Chairman 1 March 2013 29 April 2015 Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 29 April 2015 Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 29 April 2015 Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 29 April 2015 Mary Jo Jacobi Non-Executive Director 1 January 2014 29 April 2015 Dean Jenkins Chief Operating Officer 1 January 2016 Sir Jim McDonald Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 29 April 2015 Rick Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 29 April 2015 John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 29 April 2015 Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 29 April 2015 The Weir Group PLC 76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Biographical information on the Board of Directors, including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found on pages 72 and 73.
Andrew Neilson was appointed as Company Secretary on 18 December 2015 following the retirement of Keith Ruddock, who held the position since May 2012.
Andrew Neilson is Secretary to the Board of Directors and to the Nomination Committee.
He is also Director of Strategy and Corporate Affairs and a member of the Group Executive.
His biography is set out on page 74.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long-term success of the Company for its shareholders.
The Board provides leadership of the Company and sets the Groups strategic aims.
It ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities and provides guidance to senior management.
In determining the long-term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business objectives.
At all times, it works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the Non-Executive Directors bringing additional independent thought and judgment.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The roles and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are also set out in writing and both documents are available to view on the Companys website at www.
The key responsibilities of Board members are set out below.
Chairman Group Chief Senior Non-Executive Company of the Board Executive Independent Directors, Secretary Director including the Chairman Leading the Board in Planning the Group Supporting the Contributing Advising the Board on an ethical manner and objectives and strategy Chairman in his duties independent challenge governance, legislation promoting effective for Board approval.
Ensuring the effective Leading the annual Assisting in the Building a well-balanced delivery of Group review of the development of the Ensuring the Board, considering strategy.
performance of the Companys strategy.
presentation of succession planning Chairman.
high-quality information Providing leadership Ensuring the integrity and its composition.
to the Board and its to the Group and Being available of the financial committees.
Ensuring the communicating to Directors and information, controls effectiveness of the the Companys shareholders with and risk management Ensuring best practice Board and individual culture, values concerns that cannot processes.
be addressed through Monitoring the Facilitating inductions the normal channels.
Overseeing the Board Day-to-day performance of the and development evaluation and acting management of Executive Directors programmes.
against agreed goals Facilitating the Board and objectives.
induction and Advising senior development management.
Setting the Board agenda and chairing the Board meetings.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Weir Group PLC 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership continued BOARD MEETINGS The Boards scheduled meetings are held in person or by telepresence videoconferencing.
During 2015, there were eight scheduled meetings, six additional unscheduled Board meetings held by telephone and one by telepresence.
In September 2015, the Board meeting was held in Alberta, Canada and full details can be found on page 82.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
As encouraged by the Code, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met twice during the year without Executive Directors present, once at a dinner held in February and once whilst on their overseas site visit to Canada.
The table below details the attendance at Board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the 52 weeks to 1 January 2016.
Maximum number of possible meetings Name Scheduled Short notice Number of meetings attended Percentage of meetings attended Charles Berry 8 7 15 100% Keith Cochrane 8 7 15 100% Alan Ferguson 8 7 15 100% Melanie Gee 8 7 15 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 8 7 15 100% 1 Dean Jenkins Sir Jim McDonald 8 7 15 100% Rick Menell 8 7 15 100% John Mogford 8 7 15 100% 2 Lord Robertson 1 1 100% Jon Stanton 8 7 15 100% Notes 1.
Dean Jenkins joined the Board on the last day of this financial period and his attendance will be included in next years Annual Report.
Lord Robertson retired from the Board on 31 January 2015.
The annual timetable is discussed at least 18 months prior to its commencement allowing the Directors to plan their time accordingly.
The 2017 annual timetable was discussed at the Board meeting in April 2015 and circulated as soon as it was finalised.
The 2016 timetable had been reviewed during 2014.
This process ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period.
The system for establishing agenda items means both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the most appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2010-2015 Board Group Executive The Weir Group PLC 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD The Board recognises that to ensure the long-term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board alone.
Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its Committees or executive management.
Decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document entitled Matters Reserved to the Board for Approval which can be found on the Companys website at www.
The matters reserved to the Board for approval are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate and adhered to.
BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2015 During the year, the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12 month agenda for Board and Committee meetings.
At each meeting, the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and other members of the Group Executive, including information on safety, strategy, human resources, finance and legal matters.
The Board also receives updates from each Committee Chairman on items from the most recent committee meeting as well as periodic updates as required.
Other standing items include reviewing the Risk Dashboard and internal controls, safety, strategy and succession planning.
In order to undertake their duties appropriately, the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits.
The Board receives presentations by members of the Weir Group senior management team and external advisers as required.
The Board receives annual reviews on the following: asbestos, insurance and risk management, the Ethics Hotline, Value Chain Excellence, HR talent, tax, treasury and agents.
The Boards time during 2015 can be grouped into six key areas as outlined below.
A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Risk Governance Finance Stakeholder Safety engagement Setting strategy Risk Appetite Legal updates and Oversight of the EHS Standards targets.
new disclosure preparation and AGM and other and Management requirements.
Reviewing potential Groups risk and of the financial mergers and internal control The UK Corporate Investor calls, EHS Audit System.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of these Board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website at www.
The roles and responsibilities of the committees, along with the activities undertaken during the period, are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 86 to 117.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee: the Acting General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee, having taking over this role from the Company Secretary in February 2015: and the Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee, having taking over this role from the Company Secretary in October 2015.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings.
However, other Board members may attend at any time, while professional advisers and members of the senior management team may attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
General Administration Committee The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Board members of the Company, at least one of whom must be an Executive Director.
The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans.
It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Companys share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference which are periodically reviewed, most recently in January 2016, to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
Minutes of meetings of the General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors.
The Weir Group PLC 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership continued Board and committee structure Board Committees Board of Directors General Administration Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Committee Chief Executive Management Committees Group Executive Committee Finance Engineering Value Chain EHS Group Information HR Risk Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Services Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Lean Purchasing Planning Enterprise Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee GROUP EXECUTIVE The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the three Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Strategy & Corporate Affairs and the Director of Human Resources.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 74.
The Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Director of Operations, Support & Development were both members during 2015 but retired as employees of the Company and members of the Group Executive in December 2015.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016, the Group Executive met 12 times.
The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES In addition to the Board committees detailed above, there exist several management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
These have been created to deal with specific areas and under their clearly defined remits they work across the Group promoting best practice and information sharing.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive are able to delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the areas of expertise contained within them.
The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying terms of reference, the matters reserved for approval by the Board, and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
This structure provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down reporting lines.
The Weir Group PLC 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Effectiveness BOARD SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES Skills and experience Banking & Independence finance Governance International Leadership Engineering Mining Oil and gas Power 1 Charles Berry x x x x x Keith Cochrane x x x Alan Ferguson x x x x x Melanie Gee x x x x Mary Jo Jacobi x x x x x Dean Jenkins x x x x Sir Jim McDonald x x x x x Rick Menell x x x x John Mogford x x x Jon Stanton x x Note 1.
Charles Berry was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman in January 2014.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting the needs of the business.
More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
During the year, the Board approved a decision to create a new Executive Director role of Chief Operating Officer.
Full details on this are contained in the Nomination Committee Report on page 86.
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its Committees.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
APPOINTMENT AND TENURE Length of tenure at 1 January 2016 Date of next election Name 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years or re-election Charles Berry 28 April 2016 Keith Cochrane 28 April 2016 Alan Ferguson 28 April 2016 Melanie Gee 28 April 2016 Mary Jo Jacobi 28 April 2016 Dean Jenkins 28 April 2016 Sir Jim McDonald 28 April 2016 Rick Menell 28 April 2016 John Mogford 28 April 2016 Jon Stanton 28 April 2016 The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors appointments can be terminated at any time with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
Further details can also be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and good practice, Dean Jenkins will offer himself for election at the Companys AGM on 28 April 2016.
All other Directors on the Board at 1 January 2016 will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in compliance with the Code.
The Weir Group PLC 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Case study Board site visit to Edmonton Canada with the majority of its prepared barbeque with the Edmonton IN SEPTEMBER 2015, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS VISITED WEIRS employees based in Edmonton, Alberta.
based staff at the Pressure Pumping OIL & GAS CANADIAN FACILITIES This group has two major operating units: Manufacturing and Service Centre.
AND MET WITH WEIRS SENIOR Pressure Pumping and Pressure Control.
Charles Berry gave a speech that CANADIAN MANAGEMENT TEAM Pressure Pumping focuses on the commented on how impressed and IN EDMONTON, ALBERTA.
manufacture and sales of well service appreciative he was with the significant pumps and high pressure flow control tenure and contribution that many of the Weir has a long and important association equipment to the Hydraulic Fracturing assembled employees had made to with Canada, dating back more than 100 market while Pressure Control provides Weirs success.
Today, Weirs Canadian operations and installs wellhead and production tree form a substantial part of the Groups equipment directly at the well site to oil In the afternoon, the Board toured two worldwide reach and as such, especially and gas producing companies.
Pressure Pumping showcased given the significance of oil sands to the breadth of its capabilities in both Weirs future growth potential, the Weir The Boards visit centred on the Weir manufacturing and service and Pressure Board chose Canada, and in particular sites in Alberta.
On their first day, the Control presented its new Rod Guide Alberta, for this years annual site visit.
Board held its scheduled Board meeting manufacturing facility which had just followed by a presentation on NETE by opened the previous May.
The day In Canada, all three of Weirs divisions Serge Lamirande, President & General finished with a Canadian Minerals are significantly present.
During the presentation the role presentation by Aaron Ravenscroft, Industrial division is represented with held by NETE of servicing the needs of Regional Managing Director, Richard state-of-the-art Rotating Equipment repair the Royal Canadian Navy and other allied Stephenson, Managing Director, Ricky 2 services in its new 100,000 ft facility navies was explained.
In the evening, the Nolan, General Manager and Russ located in Montreal and services the Board had dinner with senior Weir North Mackie, Sales Manager.
The discussion power, mining, pulp and paper industries.
American employees and Justin Reimer, centered around the current state of the A second component of this division is an Assistant Deputy Minister in the newly business, including the expansion of the the Naval Engineering Test Establishment elected Alberta Provincial government.
R Wales rubber products group in the NETE, also located in Montreal, Vancouver area and future growth providing complex engineering and The next day, Paul Coppinger, Oil & Gas opportunities in oil sands.
testing services for the Department of Divisional Managing Director, presented National Defense.
The Weir Minerals the divisions strategy to the Board.
This A dinner was held in the evening for the division has facilities from coast to coast was followed by specific presentations Non-Executive members of the Board.
supplying and servicing pumps, barges on the Pressure Pumping and Pressure In line with the UK Corporate Governance and a wide array of mining equipment Control Canadian businesses led Code, this provided the opportunity for to assist in extraction for coal, iron ore, respectively by Ian Dundee, Regional them to meet without the Executive precious metals and the Fort McMurray Managing Director, and Cam Smith, Directors being present and for them to oil sands in Alberta.
The Oil & Gas General Manager.
After the presentations discuss matters of the Company before division is located exclusively in Western the Board attended an employee returning home the following day.
The Weir Group PLC 82 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Effectiveness continued INDUCTION AND ONGOING TRAINING When a new Director joins the Company, he or she is provided with information on the Groups structure, operations, policies and other relevant documentation.
The induction process for Sir Jim McDonald during 2015 included introductory meetings with senior executives in the Company and planned visits to the Companys facilities in Todmorden in the UK and Fort Worth in the USA, in addition to a formal briefing on legal and governance matters from the Company Secretary.
In early 2016, an induction programme was provided for Dean Jenkins following his appointment as Chief Operating Officer.
As Dean was an existing member of the Group Executive he did not receive the full induction programme or one-to-one meetings with management as would normally be provided.
As part of his induction he attended a briefing session with Herbert Smith Freehills on Directors Duties and had a meeting with Non-Executive Director, Sir Jim McDonald.
Dean was provided with an electronic version of all relevant materials and met with the Acting General Counsel, Deputy Company Secretary and Insurance Risk and Control Manager.
Directors are informed of relevant material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Groups operational sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development needs, and additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR OTHER INTERESTS Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict.
Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conflict.
At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no new conflicts have arisen.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Director in question will then be notified of the outcome.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that there are appropriate procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest and that they have operated effectively.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Although Sir Jim McDonald is the Principal and Vice Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, he has no direct involvement on a day-to-day basis in relation to the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC which is operated by the Company in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
Nevertheless, he will offer to recuse himself from any discussions in relation to the relationship between the Group and the University of Strathclyde, whether in relation to WARC or otherwise.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
BOARD EVALUATION An external review of the Board and its Committees was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited in 2014.
Following the outcome of the review, actions were taken during 2015 based on its recommendations.
This has resulted in there now being enhanced management system linkage between risk management at Board level and the internal control policies already in place across the Group.
In addition, the Board has spent significantly more time during 2015 on wider ranging strategic matters.
Individual Non-Executive Directors have also made more informal site visits to Group locations worldwide and increased resources have been made available for the Board Secretariat to provide a more focused level of support to the Board.
Building on the external Board evaluation in 2014, this years evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out internally in December 2015, with assistance from Independent Audit Limited, by way of a confidential on-line questionnaire.
The questionnaire had quantitative ratings and also sought comments on each of the following areas: strategy and risk taking, leadership and accountability, how the Board works, Board culture, line of sight, risk management, support and progress.
The findings of the evaluation were discussed by the Board as a whole at its meeting in January 2016.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board and Committees continued to function well and had made significant progress and improvements against the prior years recommendations.
No specific new areas for improvement were identified and it was the Boards desire to see continued progress in the same areas through 2016.
As is customary, Rick Menell, as Senior Independent Director, oversaw the review of the Chairman.
The Weir Group PLC 83 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 s l o r t n s l o o r c t n e o t c n n e t i s h l m e n i g o t t i r i i v s v i n n r t e c e o l a a v r Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 88 to 94.
Information on the Companys external auditors is also contained within this section.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the accompanying Guidance on Risk Management and Internal Controls, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework.
This process has been in place throughout 2015.
The Audit Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during 2015, as detailed on page 92, and more information can be found on risk management on pages 20 to 29.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Risks Functional and front line controls This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies: a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: regular performance appraisals and training for employees: restricted access to financial systems and data: delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions: protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm: IT and data security controls: business continuity planning: and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
Monitoring and oversight controls There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated.
There are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum.
The scorecard assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis.
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis, allowing appropriate action to be taken.
Assurance activities We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection from risk and are operating as we would expect.
Following the Board and Committee structure set out on page 80, various internal and external sources of assurance report to the Board and management.
These are principally external audit, internal audit, EHS audits, intellectual property audits, engineering audits, procurement audits, IT audits, legal audits and production system lean audits.
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
Ethical and cultural environment We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
This is supported by the Weir values which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted.
Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section within the Sustainability Review on page 68 provides more details on the Groups activities to promote ethical behaviour.
The Groups internal control procedures described on page 92 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
The Weir Group PLC 84 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 u e o r c t l f n u d c a d r n d u n s a a l s n a A g c i n a h i t E r l o a t i n n o o M i t c n u F I II: Corporate Governance III Remuneration Details of the Companys Remuneration Committee, including its roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 117.
The Remuneration Report also details the Companys remuneration policy and the remuneration received by Directors in 2015.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors.
Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 422 investors in 2015 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing.
Other areas where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the financial community and roadshows and Investor Relations events held by the Company, of which there were 25 during the year held in Canada, France, Germany, Sweden, the UK and the USA.
The Company holds an annual capital markets day, which in 2015 was held in London in June.
This event allows shareholders to meet the broader management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one business or one aspect of the business.
The capital markets day this year focused on progress in Weirs Oil & Gas division.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met or had contact with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Our brokers, Goldman Sachs International and UBS, and public relation advisers undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders are the Weir Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report.
Both are available on the Companys website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect to receive it.
Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders.
As well as the Interim and Annual Report, the website contains information on the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the financial calendar and other important shareholder information.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can also be found on the website.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The 2016 AGM is to be held on Thursday 28 April 2016.
Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of the Board and the Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM.
Details on proxy voting will be contained in the proxy form and the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders.
Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are also included in the Notice of Meeting.
ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS DURING 2015 We recognise the value of engaging our stakeholders their opinion and perspective enhances our approach to both managing risk and identifying opportunities for business growth.
Engaging with stakeholders Government Employees Investors Communities Suppliers and customers and regulators Code of Conduct Calls and face-to-face meetings Fundraising events Face-to-face meetings Consultation responses Global intranet AGM Sponsorship Weir customer experience Commissioning of reports programme Formalised staff meetings Reports and announcements Partnerships with educational Face-to-face meetings Town Halls institutes Global supplier scorecard for Website Visits to sites strategic suppliers Net Promoter surveys Trainee and mentorship Roadshows Briefing papers programmes Code of Conduct Personal Development Plans Capital Markets Day Industry events Volunteering ISO 14001 certification Training programmes Investor Relations app Armed Forces Covenant Trade shows and industry events Weir University for mobile devices e-learning facility Social media Social media Social media Social media The Weir Group PLC 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
