Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report CURRENT MEMBERS: CHARLES BERRY Charles Berry Chairman of the Nomination Committee Keith Cochrane Melanie Gee Rick Menell John Mogford ROLE OF NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing Director and senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2015 Board evaluation process, which was undertaken internally, and it was concluded that the Nomination Committee continues to operate effectively in line with good corporate governance.
There were no specific areas for improvement highlighted.
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Nomination Committee is currently made up of three independent Non-Executive Directors in addition to the Chief Executive and myself as Chairman.
Senior members of management and advisers are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
Lord Robertson retired from the Committee in January 2015 when he retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Melanie Gee was appointed to the Committee in June 2015.
There were five scheduled meetings held during the year.
Details of the attendance of the members of the Committee for the 52 weeks to 1 January 2016 are contained in the table below.
Members Member since Maximum number of meetings Number of meetings attended Percentage of meetings attended Charles Berry Chairman 1 January 2014 5 5 100% Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 5 5 100% Melanie Gee 18 June 2015 3 3 100% Rick Menell 14 June 2012 5 5 100% John Mogford 21 January 2014 5 5 100% 1 Lord Robertson 1 February 2004 Note 1.
Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015 and there were no Committee meetings held between 3 January 2015 and this date.
I do not chair Committee meetings when the matters under consideration relate to me or my position.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members, they would excuse themselves from the meeting.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING 2015 Succession planning During the year, the Committee continued to give significant meeting time and focus to succession planning at both Board and Group Executive level.
During the year, the Director of Human Resources presented her annual review on succession planning within the Group.
As part of this, she provided details of senior executive succession planning, containing information on ongoing or proposed talent development, the methods for identifying and cultivating potential internal candidates, and the balance of internal and external recruiting for the most senior positions.
The Weir Group PLC 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Board appointments The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment, together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors.
The existing balance of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
During the year a review of the current composition of the Board was undertaken and it was recommended that a new Executive Director position of Chief Operating Officer be created.
The Committee supported the establishment of this new role and the Board approved the establishment of the Chief Operating Officer position and the appointment of Dean Jenkins to it in July 2015.
During the year, the Committee reviewed each of the members of the Board, taking into account the findings of the 2015 Annual Board Evaluation exercise which had been considered by the Board at its January 2016 meeting.
The Committee confirmed its support for the election of Dean Jenkins, and for the re-election of all other members of the Board, at the Companys forthcoming 2016 Annual General Meeting.
A formal search process was also undertaken in 2015 to recruit a new General Counsel and Company Secretary to succeed Keith Ruddock, who retired from the Company in December 2015.
The Company engaged an external search consultancy, Spencer Stuart, to identify a successor.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Company.
At present the search for a successor is ongoing.
In the interim, Andrew Neilson, Director of Strategy and Corporate Affairs, was appointed Company Secretary and Christopher Morgan, Deputy General Counsel, was appointed Acting General Counsel.
Committee appointments When considering appointments to Board Committees, the Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Committee to ensure its continuing compliance with the recommendations made in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We recommended two Committee appointments during the year.
Alan Ferguson was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 February 2015 replacing Lord Robertson who had retired as a Non-Executive Director.
This resulted in the Committee maintaining its membership of four Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, following the retirement of Lord Robertson and his subsequent resignation from the Nomination Committee, Melanie Gee was appointed to the Committee in June 2015 to maintain the level of members at five.
INDEPENDENCE The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors.
The continued service as Directors for both Rick Menell and John Mogford was specifically reviewed, in light of their respective lengths of service, as noted in the Corporate Governance Report on page 81.
It was concluded that the Board still considered all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining the independence of a Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors continue to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
BOARD DIVERSITY The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee must consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, in identifying and recommending candidates.
The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
The Board acknowledges the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom.
Among other things, a diverse board encompasses diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills and personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, race and gender.
The Board approved a policy with respect to Board diversity at its meeting in January 2014 and the Nomination Committee has operated under and reported against this policy from this date.
The recent focus on Board diversity has centred on gender and the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation on the Board.
At the end of the financial year, two of the ten Board members of the Company were female 20%.
The Board will continue to consider its policy with respect to Board diversity on future appointments but will not place a higher regard for one form of diversity over any other.
The appropriate composition of the Board as a whole with regard to the size and activity of the Company will be taken into account at all times.
CHARLES BERRY On behalf of the Nomination Committee 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
