Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report CURRENT MEMBERS: ALAN FERGUSON Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee Melanie Gee Sir Jim McDonald John Mogford INTRODUCTION As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report to shareholders in accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code.
The 2014 Code was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and became effective this year.
Through this report, I hope we will demonstrate how we have responded to the new requirements, as well as our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our responsibilities under the Code and how we have discharged them effectively during the year.
KEY OBJECTIVE Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
We do this by focusing on, amongst other things: the adequacy of accounting policies, practices and disclosures: the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor: and oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, framework for identification and management of business risks and related assurance activities.
MEMBERSHIP I chair the Committee with the current members being Melanie Gee, Sir Jim McDonald and John Mogford, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors and have been members of the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report.
The Committee members have, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
They have been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities and in doing so we meet the Code requirement that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Summary biographies have been presented on pages 72 and 73.
RESPONSIBILITIES As a Committee, we are responsible for: reviewing the announcements of the Groups financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements, and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices, including critical accounting policies and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are robust and supportive of the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: advising the Board on the appropriateness of adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and consideration of any material uncertainties which might impact the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: reviewing the process and financial modelling underpinning the Boards Viability Statement, including linkage to the principal risks identified by the Board as having the greatest impact on longer-term viability, key assumptions and debt facility and covenant headroom calculations under stress-test scenarios: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, assessment of audit quality, effectiveness and independence, as well as the negotiation and agreement of fees: reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a review of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour: oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption AB&C programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance: and reviewing treasury policy including foreign exchange exposure.
The terms of reference can be found on the Groups website, www.
The Weir Group PLC 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III COMMITTEE EVALUATION The Committee was subject to an internal self evaluation process in 2015, via the completion of a detailed survey by each Committee member.
This follows the triennial process conducted externally by Independent Board Review during 2014.
The evaluation concluded that the Committee was performing well and it receives well-presented papers and good reports from management and internal audit.
No significant areas of concern were noted.
As an area of focus it was noted that each year we should look at our plan of activity in light of the changes to our business or risk environment in that period.
MEETINGS We met six times during the period.
Each Committee meeting takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report on our activities.
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without any executive management present.
This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order to carry out our roles and duties.
We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP EY attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Audit Committee attendees Charles Berry Chairman Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Jon Stanton Finance Director Attends by invitation Rick Menell Jan 15 only Non-Executive Director Attended by invitation Keith Ruddock to Feb 15 Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attended as Secretary to the Committee Christopher Morgan from Feb 15 Acting General Counsel Attends as Secretary to the Committee Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation Brian Gibson to Nov 15 Head of Internal Audit Attended by invitation David Kyles from Dec 15 Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation The Committee members attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Members Member since Maximum number of meetings Number of meetings attended Percentage of meetings attended Alan Ferguson Chairman 13 December 2011 6 6 100% Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 6 6 100% Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2015 6 6 100% John Mogford 1 August 2008 6 6 100% MAIN ACTIVITIES Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, our work was focused in the following areas: i financial reporting: ii internal control and risk management: iii internal audit: and iv external audit.
The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we, as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
i Financial reporting Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge, where necessary, of the actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein: decisions requiring significant judgements and estimates, or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: the existence of any adjustments resulting from the audit: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements, including an assessment of adoption of the going concern basis of accounting, extended in the current year to include a review of the process and financial modelling underpinning the Groups Viability Statement: and the processes surrounding the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements with regard to fair, balanced and understandable.
We received formal reports from the Finance Director and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the half year and full year reporting and explored these in detail at our meetings in January, February and July.
The Weir Group PLC 89 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued MAIN ACTIVITIES CONTINUED i Financial reporting continued The significant financial reporting issues discussed in the current year are summarised below.
Current period matters 1 Exceptional items restructuring costs note 5 The Committees work in respect of restructuring costs has covered the different components of the charge in relation to i Group-wide efficiency review: ii Oil & Gas downturn actions: and iii other Group restructuring activities.
Full discussion of these restructuring programmes, related charges and cash flows can be found in the Financial Review on page 43.
The members of the Audit Committee are party to discussions at Board level in relation to major restructuring activities but we have also received detailed reporting from the Finance Director covering the following aspects: i costs by initiative, by division: ii accounting treatment adopted in relation to recognition of provisions and impairments: and iii disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting.
Work of a similar nature to that performed in 2014 has been completed, which focused on probing management to understand and confirm that the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets have been met.
Specific consideration was given to the asset utilisations used in the calculation of PPE impairments, the nature of inventory being impaired and the components of cash restructuring costs.
We have also received reporting from EY that confirms managements treatment as appropriate.
Furthermore, we considered the nature of these costs in light of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items.
The Committee agrees with the accounting treatment and disclosure of these items in the 2015 Annual Report.
2 Exceptional items impairment of intangible assets notes 5 and 14 At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets and reports to the Audit Committee.
The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGUs, specifically the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
In the current year, and as a direct result of the prolonged downturn facing oil and gas markets, specific focus has been given to the basis of the assumptions underpinning the business plans of the Pressure Control and Pressure Pumping CGUs, as well as supplementary analysis comparing forecasts for future years to historic actuals as a basis for determining the extent of market recovery embedded in the projections.
In addition, consideration has been given to the long-term growth rates and discount rates used in the cash flow models for all the CGUs.
Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
Specifically in relation to Pressure Control, we have discussed the cash flow forecasts underpinning the impairment test with management to understand the main assumptions around macroeconomic factors, volume price effect and any strategic initiatives.
We agreed that the assumption of an average oil price of around US$45 a barrel, and consequent activity levels, enduring for the next two years with a gradual pick up in year three and measured return to more normal levels thereafter is the most appropriate one given what we know today.
Consideration was given to the definition of normal in this context and it was agreed reasonable to assume that the peaks for this business seen most recently in 2012 do not recur.
On that basis, we agree with the best estimate impairment charge of 225m of the Pressure Control CGU and concur with its allocation against goodwill, reducing that to nil, with the balance allocated on a pro-rata basis across other intangible assets.
With regard to Pressure Pumping, this business is more mature and had significant levels of headroom between net asset value and discounted cash flows going into the current market downturn and at the end of the prior year.
Management have included in their reporting to us the stress test scenarios that have been applied and we agreed, following a detailed review, that no impairment charge is required.
Although the Weir Gabbioneta CGU is an Oil & Gas business, its focus is on downstream operations and so it is not being as adversely impacted by the current market downturn.
However a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by management and we agreed that no impairment charge is required.
We also challenged management on the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of the assessed impairment of 26m recorded against goodwill held in two of the Other CGUs and agreed with their conclusion.
Finally, we have reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements and agree with the reporting of the impairment charge as an exceptional item and the related narrative provided in note 14.
3 Accounting for the acquisition of Delta Industrial Valves Inc. Delta Valves note 13 The specific items we have discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors in relation to the acquisition of Delta Valves for an enterprise value of US$46m were: a the Purchase Price Allocation PPA exercise to attribute provisional fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets and the related accounting for deferred tax: b the assessment of provisional acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities: and c compliance of the disclosures in the financial statements with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
In line with the Groups policy, which is based on the value of acquisition consideration, management completed the PPA exercise internally and reported a summary of the underpinning assumptions and related results to us.
We reviewed that summary and also compared the assumptions used to those for other recent acquisitions where appropriate.
The accounting for deferred tax has included technical input from the Group Head of Tax.
We examined the nature and extent of provisional fair value adjustments to other assets and liabilities noting a rigorous process was being undertaken and would be finalised, as required by IFRS 3, in 2016.
Finally, we challenged management on the completeness of the related disclosures and satisfied ourselves that they were complete, accurate, understandable and compliant with IFRS 3.
The Weir Group PLC 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Recurring agenda items 1 Accounting for pensions note 24 We have examined these disclosures and we are satisfied they are complete and accurate.
In reaching this conclusion, we have challenged management on the key assumptions underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external advice is taken by them.
During the current year, we gave specific consideration to the additional disclosure provided by management summarising the implementation of an Asset Backed Funding ABF arrangement in respect of the main UK plan.
We consider that these disclosures enable users of the financial statements to better understand the risk and impact of the agreed future contributions on the Group.
2 Tax charge and provisioning note 7 The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Finance Director every six months, which covers the following key areas: i status of on-going enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities: ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period.
In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year.
A summary of the Groups tax policy is provided in the Financial Review on page 46.
In light of the continued focus on tax transparency, we have specifically considered the disclosures in the Financial Review and in note 7, in particular the narrative in respect of the reconciliation of tax, sustainability of the effective tax rate and the processes in place, designed to manage tax risk and uncertain tax positions.
Based on the work we have undertaken, we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements is appropriate and understandable.
3 Accounting for provisions note 22 Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are 117m 2014: 113m at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented in note 22.
The focus of the Audit Committee was on the restructuring provision, and the linkage to the exceptional charges recorded in the Income Statement, and the employee-related provision, specifically the element relating to US asbestos-related claims.
The Committees work in relation to the exceptional items is discussed in a previous section of this report.
With regard to the US asbestos-related provision, our review and challenge was centred on gaining an understanding of: i the claims and settlement assumptions that underpin the discounted cash flow model and their relation to recent historic experience: ii the position with regard to insurance cover available: and iii the adequacy and transparency of the disclosures in note 22.
As explained in the Financial Review on page 48, the actual experience over the year has been broadly in line with the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment such that no change in the basis of provisioning is required.
Furthermore, the liability and matching receivable in respect of insurance proceeds remain supportable and appropriate at the balance sheet date.
We have challenged management on the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment and agree that, given the inherent uncertainty associated with estimating future costs in respect of asbestos-related diseases, the current approach is appropriate.
Given the insurance position, it was also appropriate to record a matching receivable.
With regard to provisions in overall terms, we have examined the other key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them.
We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided by the Group General Counsel where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision, the appropriateness of the closing positions.
Nothing arose from our work that gave the Committee any concern.
4 Valuation of inventory note 16 Given the continued challenges facing oil and gas markets, the Committee has retained valuation of inventory as a critical judgment area for its specific consideration.
Reporting has been received from management for the Committees review and challenge, which focused on the business drivers behind movements in both the gross inventory and slow moving and absolute inventory provision balances on the prior year.
As in the prior year, specific consideration was given to inventory holdings in Oil & Gas, covering matters which included the efficiency of inventory reduction initiatives and the extent of forward purchase commitments.
Based on the information provided, we concluded that management action had been effective and that the level of provisioning was appropriate.
In our 2014 report to shareholders, we reported on our work in relation to the contingent liability associated with the claim made by Philippines Gold Processing & Refining Corporation.
The case has been settled in the Groups favour and brief narrative disclosure included in the financial statements to that effect.
On that basis, the Committee did not undertake specific work on this item in the current year, relying solely on Board reporting from the Group General Counsel.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and Financial Statements and the process that has been followed in the preparation of the document.
With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following: involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Group Communications, Group Finance including Group Tax and Group Treasury and Company Secretariat: input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Companys brokers and PR agency: use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting: regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies: regular weekly meetings of the Disclosure Committee from December to February inclusive, which comprises the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and use of two cold readers: one an employee and member of the Senior Management Group, and the other an external, independent proofreader.
During the current year, specific focus was given to the new requirements of the 2014 Code and the related reporting across the entire Annual Report and Accounts.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board.
The Weir Group PLC 91 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued MAIN ACTIVITIES CONTINUED Viability Statement In the current year, the remit of the Committee was extended to include a review of the work undertaken by management to underpin the Groups Viability Statement.
The ultimate responsibility for the determination of the period of assessment, and for the review and approval of the principal risks taken into consideration in assessing the Groups viability rests with the Board.
Our remit, as delegated by the Board, was to review the underlying processes and key assumptions and report to the Board accordingly.
We fulfilled our responsibilities in this area through the review and discussion of reporting received from management, which covered the following areas: summary of the underlying principles as agreed by the Board: overview of the construct of the financial model and base case data underpinning the sensitivity and stress-test scenarios: results of financial modelling which reflected the crystallisation of those principal risks identified by the Board as having the greatest potential impact on the Groups viability, both individually and when taken together in a severe but plausible stress-test scenario: extent of mitigating actions included in the financial modelling, relative to the population of such actions that had been identified as within the control of management and the Board: covenant calculations and assessment of facility headroom in each of the downside and stress-test scenarios: and rationale in support of the long-term viability of the Group.
The Groups Viability Statement is reported on page 29, within the section on Principal risks and uncertainties.
ii Internal control and risk management Our role with regard to risk management has been delegated by the Board and is to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk and internal control frameworks.
Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group, rests with the Board.
During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment.
Our work in this area was supported by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of audit visits undertaken: the overall assessment of the internal control environment: and in addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering any investigations into known or suspected fraudulent activities, including assertions of such via the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, is reviewed.
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Groups compliance related activities from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements, there have been presentations from each of the three Divisional Finance Directors DFDs, which included a review of the divisional risk dashboards, the significant findings from the internal audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard process over the last 12 months, as well as an overview of their divisional finance teams.
Focus is given to the strength and depth of the finance teams capability, the quality and efficiency of responses to findings of Internal Audit visits including whether learning has been shared more widely across the Group to mitigate the risk of recurrence and share good practices and the quality of the discussion around divisional risk dashboards.
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months of their compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal.
As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, these cover but are not limited to management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other financial policies.
The approach to Compliance Scorecard reporting was refreshed during the year with management being required to score their submissions using stricter criteria than previously, with reference to specific guidance provided by Internal Audit and on the basis of more robust relevant testing.
The outcome of this refreshed approach has been a more consistent methodology underpinning testing and scoring which should provide a clearer benchmark against which to compare businesses and measure improvement actions going forward.
Furthermore, to improve assurance activities around cyber risk, amongst other objectives, management were requested to self assess against a Maturity Model provided by the Group IS Excellence Committee in 2015.
The purpose of this was to develop an improved view of the Groups cyber security risk landscape and allow the prioritisation of risk areas for review and remediation.
Operating companies are required to retain evidence of their testing in support of their self-assessment responses.
Internal Audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment during planned visits.
Any significant variances are reported to local, divisional and Group management.
Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time.
The overall compliance scores in percent are tracked over time and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed and Internal Audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies.
iii Internal audit One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual Internal Audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced, effective which includes assessing the independence of the function and has appropriate standing within the Company.
As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in the Group on a periodic, rotational basis.
A risk-based approach is taken when deciding which businesses to audit and the scope of each audit.
The factors considered are, amongst other things, the volatility of end markets, critical system or senior management changes in the period, financial results, the timing of the most recent Internal Audit visit and any other assurance reviews undertaken, and whether the business is a recent acquisition.
In addition, The Weir Group PLC 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III the emergence of any common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audits or Compliance Scorecard submissions see previous section is taken into consideration.
As part of the annual plan, Anti-Bribery & Corruption reviews are undertaken, focusing on areas such as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and corporate hospitality gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed in detail and approved by the Committee each year.
Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on audit activities, progress against the plan and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, including management responses, to address these areas.
Private discussions between myself and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee.
I also receive copies of all internal audit reports issued during the year.
In November 2015 the Head of Internal Audit transitioned to a Finance Director role within the business and his replacement, who I interviewed as part of my role in the recruitment process, has been appointed and commenced work at the start of December 2015. iv External audit Auditor choice, tenure, tendering and reappointment The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner, each year.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for four years, including 2015.
EY, or its predecessor firms, has been the Companys external auditor since prior to its stock market listing in 1946.
We had previously decided that we would undertake a tender, at the latest for the 2017 year end audit.
Following a discussion on the pros and cons of undertaking a tender during 2015 16 or 2016 17, we announced in our interim report in July 2015 that we had commenced a tender process to select a new external auditor, with the intention of making an appointment effective for the 2016 audit.
A Tender Panel has been established, which consists of all members of the Audit Committee as well as the Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller.
The process, and ultimate appointment, of a new external auditor is being conducted in accordance with guidance provided by the European Commission and the Competition & Markets Authority CMA, and is viewed by the Committee as being in the best interests of shareholders.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
The tender process has been a particular focus of the Committee over the second half of 2015 and to the date of this report, the following aspects of which have been completed: preliminary discussions with a number of firms to determine those to be invited to an initial, pre-qualification phase: completion of the pre-qualification phase during which the focus was on identification of the Group audit partner teams and of any matters to be addressed to ensure auditor independence, in line with current regulations.
The outcome of this phase was the decision as to which of the firms would continue to the final stages: issuance of formal Invitations to Tender to the remaining firms and finalisation of the planning to process completion: and meetings with key overseas divisional audit partners from firms.
The process is on schedule to complete at the start of April with an appointment being announced at the Companys AGM on 28 April 2016.
The final stages of the process will be the submission of formal proposals from the participating firms with each then formally presenting their proposition to the Tender Panel.
Following the presentations, and based on a number of decision-making criteria including i audit quality and approach to communication with the business and the Committee: ii proposed service levels: iii the capability and competence of the audit partners, both at Head Office and at Divisional level: iv the audit approach of the firm and its focus on internal quality control procedures: and v value for money, the Tender Panel will make a decision regarding appointment of the successful firm for recommendation to the Board.
A resolution to appoint the new external auditors as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Auditor effectiveness The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
EY present their detailed audit plan to us each year identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the current period, the significant risks identified were the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventory, adequacy of liability provisioning, including provisions for legal obligations, exceptional items, the exposure to significant tax risks and revenue recognition due to the inherent management judgement required in all these areas.
Revenue recognition was selected by EY as part of their work considering the risk of fraud or management override of internal controls.
In respect of this area, the Audit Committee took comfort from the work of the auditors, where they have confirmed that there was nothing that had to be brought to our attention.
In addition, the Committee derived assurance from the work of Internal Audit and the Compliance Scorecard process.
Our work in each of the other risk areas identified by EY has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by, amongst other things, a review of the reporting from the auditors to the Committee and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the first half of the year, management issued a detailed questionnaire to every Finance Manager Director and Divisional Finance Director to collect feedback on the 2014 audit process.
This covered resource and expertise of the audit teams, quality of planning, execution and deliverables as well as an assessment of overall performance.
Resultant themes and findings were discussed between ourselves, management and EY with both management and the auditors reporting to us on the actions being implemented in response.
In addition, on a periodic basis, the Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller meet with the overseas external audit teams.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk, although there are always some areas where improvements could be made, and assessed the quality of the audit process to be satisfactory.
The Weir Group PLC 93 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued MAIN ACTIVITIES CONTINUED iv External audit continued Auditor effectiveness continued During the period, the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team reviewed EYs audit of the Groups 2014 financial statements.
We have discussed with EY the two principle findings, including discussion at our January 2016 meeting of the planned remedial actions and a follow up in February to confirm that those actions had been successfully completed.
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Based on the input from management and discussions we have had with EY and key finance individuals and EYs responsiveness to the AQR teams findings, we are of the view that the quality of the audit process is satisfactory.
Independence policy and non-audit services The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment and role of the auditor.
This includes keeping under review the auditors independence by issuing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them.
In addition, a formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
All non-audit services require the approval of management and, where the expected cost of the service is in excess of 75,000, the approval of the Audit Committee.
No changes have been made to the policy in the current year.
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
Fees payable to EY in respect of audit and assurance services for 2015 of 1.8m 2014: 2.0m were approved by the Committee after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by EY that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by EY over the past year for assurance services amounted to 0.1m, which represented 5% of the total fees, including audit fees, and were incurred primarily in relation to other assurance services.
We are of the view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
Having considered the relationship with the existing independent auditor, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, the Committee concluded that the existing external auditors remained independent and effective for the purposes of the 2015 year end.
OUR FOCUS FOR 2015 In last years report we said that, in addition to our routine business we would increase our focus on risk assurance and progress audit tender plans.
We have made good progress on risk assurance with increased activity by internal audit in this area being an indicator.
As noted above, following a decision to tender the audit we have moved from the planning stage through to execution.
OUR FOCUS FOR 2016 A key focus for 2016 will be the successful completion of the external audit tender process and handover to the appointed firm.
In addition, we will look to respond to the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees which will come into effect in 2016 and I will spend time with the new Head of Internal Audit, to help ensure there is a seamless transition from his predecessor.
ALAN FERGUSON On behalf of the Audit Committee 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
