Report of the Audit Committee Risk Statement by the Chairman of the Committee Management has identified Strategic Report pages 20 and 21 five main areas of potential risk: market and investment As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am portfolio, operational, corporate governance, accounting, pleased to present the Report of the Committee for the year legal and regulatory, and liquidity and going concern, and ended 31 December 2015. has set out the actions taken to evaluate and manage these risks.
The auditor has also detailed two specific areas of Composition and responsibilities of the Committee risk in its report: investment valuation and ownership of The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, investments and has set out the work it has performed to LQFOXGLQJ LWV &KDLUPDQ ZKR DUH DSSRLQWHG E WKH %RDUG, ZDV satisfy itself that these have been properly reflected in the DSSRLQWHG &KDLUPDQ RI WKH &RPPLWWHH LQ 7KH %RDUG financial statements.
The Committee reviews the various has taken note of the requirement that at least one member actions taken and satisfies itself that they are sufficient: in of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial particular the Committee reviews managements Risk Report experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly at each meeting and requires amendments to both risks and constituted in this respect, as I am a Chartered Accountant mitigating actions if appropriate.
and was previously a partner in  LLP.
Mr Watson, who was appointed to the Committee in 2006, Meetings of the Committee and Mrs Claydon who was appointed to the Committee in The Committee held three meetings during 2015, in February, 2013, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
August and November and also met in February 2016.
Details of our qualifications and experience are given on Representatives of the external auditor were present at the pages 28 and 29. meetings held in February 2015 and 2016 and November, UHSRUW WR WKH %RDUG DIWHU HDFK PHHWLQJ RQ WKH PDLQ The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in matters discussed at the meeting.
In summary, the main applying financial reporting and internal control principles matters dealt with at these meetings were as follows: and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, auditor.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out valuation and liquidity of investments: this includes in its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate assessing management reports on the controls and Governance Code.
The terms of reference are available on procedures of external managers and the external request from the Company Secretary and can be seen on custodian administrator and the review of the audit the Companys website www.
In summary, the work performed.
No significant issues were identified.
Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of Interim and year-end reporting, in the light of the the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting requirements of the revised Code of Corporate judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial Governance issued by the AIC, and the new controls and risk management systems using an external requirements for a viability statement and additional consultant where appropriate.
disclosures on going concern and risk management.
The Committee agreed the process, timing and responsibility for compliance.
Following the appointment of WIS as the Companys AIFM, the Committee has worked with the Risk Committee of WIS, the Companys subsidiary, to UHYLHZ{:, 6o FRPSOLDQFH ZLWK &$ UHJXODWLRQV 44 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information A variety of more detailed matters including the The Committee approved the proposed audit fee.
The Committee has a rule that a specified engagement of the adequacy of procedures and monitoring to ensure internal controls, whistleblowing, anti-money auditor to provide non-audit services cannot exceed 50% of the annual audit fees without Committee approval.
As laundering compliance, data and IT systems protection and business continuity.
noted in note 5 on page 72, the Committee approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP to provide advice on one-off In the light of the relative simplicity of the operations withholding tax claims.
The appointment, which was made on and the use of independent external consultants to a one-off basis, was awarded on a competitive basis and the advise on regulatory compliance and adherence to Committee satisfied itself that Deloittes audit teams and tax internal procedures, it was concluded that no internal advisory team were independent of each other.
Although the audit function was required see page 43. fees paid to date for this work have amounted to 108,000, the Committee is pleased to note that, to date, 951,000 Going concern of withholding tax has been recovered and it is hoped that further recoveries will be made in future.
The Committee considered the issue of going concern and UHFRPPHQGHG WKDW WKH %RDUG VKRXOG FRQWLQXH WR DGRSW WKH The Committee is aware of the new limit on non-audit fees going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
The %RDUGoV FRQFOXVLRQV DUH VHW RXW XQGHU p LTXLGLW and going that is being introduced with effect from January 2017, from which time non-audit fees cannot be more than 70% of the concern on page 21 and under note 1 b on page 68. average audit fees for the last three years.
External audit The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the Financial statements 7KH %RDUG KDV UHTXHVWHG WKH &RPPLWWHH WR FRQILUP WKDW LQ audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments of materiality, and monitors the auditors independence and LWV RSLQLRQ WKH %RDUG FDQ PDNH WKH UHTXLUHG VWDWHPHQW WKDW the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and objectivity.
It conducted a formal review of the performance of the auditor during the year, concluding that performance understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, had been satisfactory and did not give rise to any grounds for change.
However, as reported below, recent legislation business model and strategy.
The Committee has given this confirmation on the basis of its review of the whole means that the Company has to carry out a tender for the audit.
document, underpinned by involvement in the planning for its preparation, review of the processes to assure the Deloitte & Touche, a predecessor firm of Deloitte LLP, was accuracy of factual content, and by assurances from the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
first appointed as the Companys auditor in March 1997.
The audit was subject to competitive tender in 2007, at which Approval time Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
The auditor is required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
The current partner This report was approved by the Committee on 8 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: took on responsibility for the audit with effect from the audit of the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December Robert Boyle 2014.
In light of recent legislation on audit tendering, the Committee intends to carry out a tender for the audit of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Companys accounts during 2016, with a view to appointing a new audit firm for the audit of the accounts for the year 8 March 2016 ending 31 December 2016.
Annual Report 2015 Witan Investment Trust plc 45
