Corporate governance statement The corporate governance statement explains how the Board has sought to protect shareholders interests by protecting and enhancing shareholder value.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the stewardship of the Company and this section explains how they have fulfilled their corporate governance responsibilities.
This corporate governance statement forms part of the directors report.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR requires the Board to disclose how it has applied the principles of the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code.
A copy of the UK Code is available from the website of the Financial Reporting Council at frc.
The AIC has published its own Code on Corporate Governance the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, both revised in February 2015.
The AIC Code provides a comprehensive guide to best practice in certain areas of governance where the specific characteristics of investment trusts suggest alternative approaches to those set out in the UK Code.
The FRC has confirmed that the AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide will be meeting their obligations in relation to the UK Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the DTR.
Both the AIC Code and AIC Guide are available from the AIC website at theaic.
The Board of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
46 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Statement of compliance The company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: The role of the chief executive Executive directors remuneration The senior independent director The need for an internal audit function Chairman's membership of the Audit Committtee The requirement for separate Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board does not, at present, consider that separate Nomination and Remuneration Committees would be appropriate at this stage in the Companys life the Company only having commenced trading and gained its premium listing eight months prior to the Companys period end and given the Boards size, being four members in total.
Currently, decisions concerning the Boards remuneration, nomination and Board appraisals are undertaken by the Board as a whole.
However, the need for separate Nomination and Remuneration Committees is considered on an annual basis.
The Board of directors The Board consists of four directors, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of the directors are shown on pages 32 to 33 and demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
The directors possess business and financial expertise relevant to the direction of the Company and consider themselves to be committing sufficient time to the Companys affairs.
External search consultancy services were not required for the initial recruitment of Board members because the Board were appointed prior to the Company's listing.
As an unlisted company it would not have been required to comply with the UK Code or the AIC Code.
The Board may consider using an external search consultancy to aid in the recruitment of future Board members.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
Each director has been appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment entered into with the Company.
The directors appointment can be terminated in accordance with the Articles of Association and without compensation.
Copies of the letters of appointment are available on request from the company secretary and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman The Chairman, Susan Searle, is independent and considers herself to have sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs.
The Chairmans other commitments are detailed in her biography on page 32.
The directors have determined that the size of the Companys Board does not warrant the appointment of a senior independent director at this time.
All of the directors are available to address shareholder queries or engage in consultation as required.
The operation of the Board The Board of directors meets at least four times a year and more often if required.
The table on the following page sets out the directors attendance at Board and Committees meetings held since the Company was first listed on the London Stock Exchange on 21 April 2015 to 31 December 2015, against the number of meetings each Board or Committee member was eligible to attend during the period under review.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 47 Board Audit Management Engagement Committee Committee Susan Searle 4 4 1 1 1 1 Steven Harris 4 4 1 1 1 1 Scott Brown 4 4 1 1 1 1 Louise Makin 4 4 1 1 1 1 During the period under review Alexander Haynes and The Company has taken out directors and officers liability Nicholas Horton served as directors.
However, they both insurance, such cover to be maintained for the full term resigned on 13 February 2015 before the Company of each directors appointment.
commenced trading and they were not eligible to attend the above meetings.
Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, there are no qualifying third party indemnity No individuals other than the Committee or Board members provisions in force.
are entitled to attend the relevant meetings unless they have been invited to attend by the Board or relevant Committee.
Independence of directors Each of the directors was considered to be independent Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers for on appointment and remained so throughout the period each Board or Committee meeting, which equips them with of Woodford Investment Management LLP the portfolio sufficient information to prepare for the meetings.
In manager and Capita Financial Management Limited the addition, the company secretary aims to circulate meeting manager and free from any business or other relationship papers at least seven days prior to each meeting to allow that could materially interfere with the exercise of his or the Board or Committee members sufficient time to review her independent judgement.
There are no relationships the meeting packs.
or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision to ensure effective control of Care will be taken at all times to ensure that the Board is strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, composed of members who, as a whole, have the required which includes: knowledge, abilities and experience to properly fulfil their Companys structure including share issues and setting role and are sufficiently independent.
a discount premium management programme Risk management Directors' interests Appointing the investment managers and other service The Board hold shares in the following companies, all of providers and setting their fees which represent more than 1% of the Company's portfolio Setting the overall objectives and investment restrictions as at 31 December 2016: Approving Board changes Susan Searle: Horizon Discovery, Benchmark Authorising Board conflicts of interest Steven Harris: Circassia Approving the Companys annual accounts and half Scott Brown: Nil yearly accounts including accounting policies Louise Makin: BTG plc The approval of dividend payments and distributions to the Companys shareholders Board evaluation Approving the Company's level of gearing In consideration of the Companys launch during 2015 and The approval of terms of reference and membership the focus on investment, policies and procedures, the Board of Board Committees has scheduled the first evaluation to take place during 2016 Approving liability insurance when it was felt the Board and its Committees would be Agreeing the terms of the appointment of the third-party fully established and the most benefit would be derived service providers from the process.
Any training needs identified as part of the Board evaluation process will be added to the agenda There is a procedure in place for the directors to take of the next Board meeting.
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such professional advice has been taken by As a FTSE 250 Company the Board is required to be the directors during the period under review other than externally evaluated at least every third year.
As the Board to provide advice as part of the initial public offering.
has been in existence for less than a year the Board does not feel it would be appropriate at present to employ the services or to incur the additional expense of an external third party to conduct the evaluation process.
48 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Board training and induction control and supervision of all suppliers of services to the The company secretary, Board or the portfolio manager Company including the portfolio manager.
The Board is also upon request of the Board, will offer induction training to responsible for the Companys system of internal and new directors about the Company, its key service providers, financial controls and for ensuring that commercial risks the directors duties and obligations and other matters as and financing needs are properly considered and that the may be relevant from time to time.
obligations of a public limited company are adhered to.
The Board members are encouraged to keep up to date To assist the Board in the day-to-day operations of the and attend training courses on matters which are directly Company, arrangements have been put in place to delegate relevant to their involvement with the Company.
The this authority to the manager and portfolio manager and Company has joined The Association of Investment other third-party service providers.
The Board has appointed Companies 'AIC' and the Board have taken advantage of Capita Financial Managers Limited as its manager who, in various webinars, meetings and conferences organised turn, has delegated the management of the Companys by the AIC in the furtherance of their training.
The directors portfolio to Woodford Investment Management LLP the also receive regular briefings from, among others, the portfolio manager to manage the Companys investment auditor and the company secretary regarding any proposed portfolio within guidelines set by the Board.
developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect them or the Company.
The portfolio manager is in frequent contact with the Board and supplies the directors with regular updates on the Board appointment, election and tenure Companys activities and detailed reports are provided for The rules concerning the appointment and replacement review at each Board meeting.
The Chairman encourages of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of open and constructive debate to foster a supportive and Association and the Companies Act 2006. co-operative approach at all meetings.
None of the directors consider length of service as an Management agreement and continuing impediment to independence or good judgement but, if appointment they felt this had become the case, the relevant director Details of the portfolio managers agreement and fees are would stand down.
set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 75.
The Chairman of the Company acts as Chairman of the The Board keeps the performance of the portfolio manager Management Engagement Committee.
The Terms of under continual review.
The Management Engagement Reference of all committees are available from the Committee undertook its first annual appraisal of the company secretarys office and the Companys section of manager and portfolio manager during the period under the portfolio manager's website at woodfordfunds.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the appointments of all of the Company's third-party service The directors of the Company and their biographies are providers continue.
It was felt that their appointment was set out on page 32 to 33.
Details of their interests in the in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole as the shares of the Company are set out in the directors relationship with each party was new and insufficient remuneration report on page 57.
As this is the first Annual time had passed since the Company was incorporated General Meeting, all members of the Board will put to enable the Committee to effectively evaluate any themselves forward for election.
As a FTSE 250 company, partys performance.
each member of the Board is required to put themselves forward for re-election on an annual basis.
Conflicts of interest The Articles of Association provide that the directors may The Board considers that all of the current directors authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest that contribute effectively to the operation of the Board and the a director may have, with or without imposing any conditions strategy of the Company.
The Board has considered each that they consider appropriate on the director.
Directors Board member's independence of the Company and are not able to vote in respect of any contract, arrangement manager.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the best or transaction in which they have a material interest and interests of shareholders that each of the directors is elected.
in such circumstances they are not counted in the quorum.
A process has been developed to identify any of the Board responsibilities and relationship with the directors potential or actual conflicts of interest.
This portfolio manager includes declaring any potential new conflicts before the The Board is responsible for the determination of the start of each Board meeting.
A schedule is maintained of Companys investment policy and strategy and has overall each Board members potential conflict of interest.
responsibility for the Companys activities, including the review of investment activity and performance and the Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 49 Board committees shareholders as a whole.
The relationship between each Given the size of the Board, it is not considered appropriate party was new and insufficient time had passed since the for the Company to establish separate Remuneration Company was incorporated to enable the Committee to and Nomination Committees.
It is, therefore, the practice effectively evaluate any party's performance.
for the Board as a whole to consider and approve directors remuneration, new appointments and Board appraisals.
Company secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services Audit Committee of the company secretary, Capita Company Secretarial The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Audit Services Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that Committee and it is felt appropriate that all directors are the Board and Committee procedures are followed and members of the Audit Committee because the Board has that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The company secretary is also responsible for ensuring the UK Code stipulates that, as a FTSE 250 company the good information flows between all parties.
Chairman should not be a member of the Audit Committee.
However, given the size of the Board being only four Review of shareholder profile members in total, the Board believes it is appropriate that The Board reviews reports provided by qualified independent the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit industry consultants and the Companys broker on the Committee.
The Board has established formal terms of Companys shareholder base and its underlying beneficial reference for the Audit Committee which are available on owners.
The portfolio manager and brokers disclose any the Companys section of Woodford Investment Managers concerns raised by shareholders to the Board.
com, or from the Company Secretary upon request.
An outline of the remit of the Audit Committee Stewardship responsibilities and the use of voting rights and its activities during the period are set out below.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC introduced a Stewardship Code which sets out the responsibilities of The Audit Committee is chaired by Steven Harris and meets institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
It is responsible for ensuring that the Under the Code, managers should: financial performance of the Company is properly reported and monitored and provides a forum through which the Publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge Companys external auditor may report to the Board.
The their stewardship responsibilities to their clients Audit Committee reviews and recommends to the Board Disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest the annual and half-yearly reports and financial statements, Monitor their investee companies financial announcements, internal control systems, risk Establish clear guidelines on how they escalate metrics, valuations and procedures and accounting policies engagement of the Company.
Be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate Further details on the work of the Audit Committee can Have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their be found in the report of the Audit Committee on voting record pages 53 to 55.
Management Engagement Committee Woodford Investment Management LLP Woodford The Committee meets at least once a year or more often recognises that one of the important obligations that it has if required.
Its principal duties are to consider the terms as a shareholder on behalf of the Company is the right to of appointment of the manager and portfolio manager and vote on issues submitted to shareholders.
These issues the Companys other service providers.
may include the election of directors and other important matters that affect the structure of the investee company.
Management agreement and continuing appointment Woodford recognises its fiduciary responsibility to its clients Details of the portfolio manager's agreement and fees are and the Woodford investment team will consider proxy set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 75. voting papers, supported by independent providers, ahead of making an election.
The Board keeps the performance of the portfolio manager under continual review.
The Management Engagement The Woodford investment team considers its position on Committee undertook its first annual appraisal of the all major proxy voting issues.
The investment team is manager, portfolio manager and other service providers responsible for all elections and a record of the that election during the period under review.
It recommended to the is maintained electronically.
Board that the appointments of all of the Company's third-party service providers continue as it was felt that their appointment was in the best interests of the 50 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford has retained the services of Institutional Voting to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of Information Service IVIS, a leading provider of corporate the internal controls operated on behalf of their clients.
IVIS outlines a number of best practice The manager, portfolio manager, the administrator and guidelines that cover: the company secretary will report on any breaches of law or Corporate governance regulation, if and when they arise, periodically in scheduled Share capital management.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether there is any need for an internal audit function, Woodford considers the advice and recommendations and it has agreed that it is appropriate for the Company made by IVIS in reaching a proxy voting decision.
It is the to rely on the internal audit controls which exist within its responsibility of the Woodford investment team to decide third-party providers and that it is not necessary to have how to vote and it may choose not to follow the advice an internal audit function.
Woodfords default position is to vote with management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the administrator, manager and portfolio managers systems Woodford manages the proxy voting process via ProxyEdge, of internal control and risk management.
During the period a platform provided by Broadridge.
The system manages under review, the Board has not identified any significant the process of notifications, voting, tracking, mailing, failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems of reporting and record maintenance.
ProxyEdge provides its service providers.
proxy information through an automated electronic interface based on share positions provided directly to The Company established a risk matrix prior to the Broadridge by Woodford back office or directly from the Companys listing on 21 April 2015, consisting of the key clients custodian, bank or broker-dealer.
risks and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Relations with shareholders evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, Company.
Details of the Companys risks can be found on in person or by proxy, at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
pages 26 to 27 of the directors report, together with an The notice of the AGM, which is sent out at least 20 working explanation of the robust controls that have been established days in advance, sets out the business of the meeting and to manage each risk.
Financial risks are explained in note any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in 22 on page 82.
The risk matrix provides a basis for the the directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed in Audit Committee and the Board to regularly monitor the respect of each substantive issue.
effective operation of the controls and to update the matrix when new risks are identified.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to participate in proceedings.
The Chairman of the Board The system of internal control and risk management is and the directors, together with representatives of the designed to meet the Companys particular needs and investment manager, will be available to answer shareholders the risks to which it is exposed.
The Board recognises that questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting figures are available these control systems can only be designed to manage, to shareholders at the AGM.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, The portfolio manager holds regular discussions with major assurance against material misstatement or loss.
shareholders, the feedback from which is provided to and greatly valued by the Board.
The directors are available Whistleblowing to enter into dialogue and correspondence with shareholders As the Company has no employees, the Company does not regarding the progress and performance of the Company.
The Audit Committee reviews Further information about the Company can be found the whistleblowing procedures of the manager, portfolio on the Companys section of the portfolio managers manager and administrator to ensure that the concerns website woodfordfunds.
of their staff may be raised in a confidential manner.
Internal control review Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive The Board does not have an internal audit function as it Disclosure delegates its operations to third-party service providers Report on remuneration and does not employ any staff.
Instead it has been agreed The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD that it will rely on the internal audit controls which exist requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the within its third-party providers.
remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
The administrator, depositary, manager and portfolio Details of the Capita Financial Managers Limited CFML manager have established internal control frameworks AIFM Remuneration Policy are disclosed on the website Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 51 at capitafinancial.
com and have applied to CFML since 1 January 2015, being the beginning of the first financial year of CFML following its authorisation as an AIFM.
Quantitative remuneration disclosure In accordance with FUND 3.3.
5 5 and in accordance with FCA Finalised guidance General guidance on the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC 19B 'the Guidelines', dated January 2014, the total amount of remuneration paid by the AIFM, for the financial year to the 31 December 2015, in respect of the Woodford Patient Capital Trust was 22,155.
The AIFM does not consider that any member of staff of the AIFM has the ability to materially impact the risk profile of the Woodford Patient Capital Trust.
It should be noted that the CFML has delegated portfolio management to Woodford Investment Managers by way of a portfolio management agreement and the CFML is satisfied that Woodford Investment Managers is subject to the regulatory requirements that are equally as effective as those applicable under the Guidelines.
Other disclosures The AIFMD requires that the AIFM ensures that certain other matters are actioned and or reported to investors.
Each of these is set out below.
Provision and content of an Annual Report FUND 3.3.
5 The publication of the Annual Report and Accounts of the company satisfies these requirements Material change of information The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in the Company before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the Annual Report.
6 There are no assets subject to special arrangements due to their illiquid nature and no new arrangements for the managing of the liquidity of the Company.
There is no change to the arrangements, as set out in the Prospectus, for managing the Companys liquidity.
The current risk profile of the Company is set out in the Annual Report: principal risks and uncertainties on page 26 and in further detail in note 22: risk management policies and procedures in the Notes to the financial statements on page 73.
The Company is permitted to be leveraged and the table below sets out the current maximum permitted and actual leverage.
As a percentage of net asset value Gross method Commitment method Maximum level of leverage 320.0% 120.0% Leverage as at 31st December 2015 100.8% 100.0% There have been no breaches of the permitted leverage limits within the reporting period and no changes to maximum level of leverage employed by the AIF.
Other matters The CFML can confirm that required reporting to the FCA has been undertaken in accordance with FUND 3.4.
By order of the Board Susan Searle Chairman 21 March 2016 52 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
