Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership of the Audit Committee the 'Committee' I am pleased to All of the directors are members of the Audit Committee.
As Chairman of the Committee, present the Audit Committee report I can confirm that I am a Chartered Accountant and I maintain my membership of the Institute for the period ended 31 December 2015. of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
As such, I have relevant financial experience.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code and the AICs Code on Corporate Governance the AIC Code recommend that the Chairmen of FTSE 250 companies, of which your Company is one, should not be a member of the Audit Committee.
However, we are of the opinion that, as the Board is small with only four members and because of the Chairman's relevant financial experience gained through her involvement with other industries during the course of her career and given our opinion that the Chairman is independent, the Audit Committee would greatly benefit from her input.
Consequently, we have agreed that Susan Searle, as Chairman of the Board, be a member of the Audit Committee.
The role of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is defined in its terms of reference, which can be found on the Companys section of Woodford Investment Management LLPs website at woodfordfunds.
In summary, the role includes the following: To monitor the financial reporting process To review and monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements and review and challenge where necessary the accounting policies and judgements of the manager, portfolio manager and administrator To review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial and internal control and risk management systems To review the effectiveness of the external audit process To make recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the external auditor and to approve its remuneration and terms of engagement To review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity To consider the provision of non-audit services To consider the provision of services by the Companys appointed tax advisers To consider any dividend payments and distributions to shareholders To consider and review the valuation and existence of the Company's assets To consider the need for an internal audit function To review the 'whistleblowing' policies of the third-party service providers.
Matters considered during the period The Audit Committee has met once during the period under review and considered the following items: The Companys half-year financial statements and advised the Board accordingly The Companys audit plan with the external auditor The policy on non-audit services The dividend policy The whistleblowing policy of the manager and the portfolio manager.
The Board as a whole reviewed the following items: The internal controls and risk management of the Company Whether there was a requirement for an internal audit function Review of the Companys risk matrix Review of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and whether appropriate estimates and judgements have been made.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 53 UK non-audit services In relation to non-audit services, the Committee has reviewed and implemented a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services and this will be reviewed on an annual basis.
The auditor provided reporting accountant services on the Company's prospectus prior to the Company's listing and on the Company's half-year accounts, both of which are considered non-audit services.
These non-audit fees amounted to 40,000 excluding VAT, 30,000 for the work undertaken in respect of the Company's prospectus prior to listing and 10,000 to review the financial statements of the Company's half-year accounts.
It was agreed that all requests or applications for other services to be provided by the auditor should be submitted to the Audit Committee and will include a description of the services to be rendered and an anticipated cost.
Significant accounting matters The Committee met on 17 March 2016 to review the Report and accounts for the period to 31 December 2015.
The Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities and issues communicated by the Auditors during their review, all of which were satisfactorily addressed: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation of the investment portfolio, The Companys assets are principally invested in listed and including the unquoted holdings unlisted equities.
The Committee reviewed internal control reports from the portfolio manager in the year reporting on the systems and controls around the pricing and valuation of securities.
The Committee notes that listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by thirdparty financial data vendors.
Please see note 2b on page 73 for further details of how unlisted equities are valued.
Compliance with section 1158 of the The Audit Committee receives assurance from the Company's Tax Act 2010 administrators that the Company has been in compliance with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
This is other than monitoring of close company status, which is monitored by way of an alert that has been set up by the Companys registrars to notify the Company Secretary should more than 0.5% of shares change hands.
Risk of misappropriation of assets and The Committee reviews reports from its service providers on unsecured ownership of investments key controls over the assets of the Company.
Any significant issues are reported by the manager to the Board.
The manager has put in place procedures to ensure that investments can only be made to the extent that the appropriate contractual and legal arrangements are in place to protect the Companys assets.
Management override of controls The Committee reviews reports from its service providers on key controls over the assets of the Company.
The risk that income is overstated, The Board regularly reviews income forecasts, including incomplete or inaccurate through failure special dividends.
The audit includes checks on the to recognise proper income entitlements completeness and accuracy of income and also checks that or to apply the appropriate accounting this has been recognised in accordance with stated treatment for recognition of income.
54 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc External auditor The Companys external auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, was appointed prior to the listing of the Company in 2015.
Under the Financial Reporting Councils transitional arrangements the Company is required to re-tender, at the latest, by 2025.
The Committee intends to re-tender within the timeframe set by the Financial Reporting Council.
Due to the short period of time since the Auditor was appointed, it is not considered appropriate to consider the auditors succession at this point in time.
The individual at Grant Thornton UK LLP who acts as the Company's appointed audit partner is Julian Bartlett.
Julian's appointment is reviewed annually.
In accordance with UK legislation, the audit partner must rotate at least every five years.
As this is Julian's first year as audit partner, he will be due to rotate out of this role during 2020 at the latest.
The audit fees for the period under review can be found in note 5 to the accounts on page 76.
The Committee monitors the auditors objectivity and independence on an ongoing basis.
In determining the auditors independence, the Committee has assessed all relationships with the auditor and received confirmation from the auditor that it is independent and that no issues of conflicts arose during the period.
The Committee is therefore satisfied that Grant Thornton UK LLP is independent.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board on its re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor.
The Committee has met with the audit partner and assessed Grant Thornton UK LLPs performance to date.
I have met with Julian separately to discuss the Company's audit and other matters concerning the Company.
I can confirm that Julian did not raise any issues of concern during our meeting.
The review has involved an examination of the auditors remuneration, the quality of its work including the quality of the audit report, the quality of the audit partner and audit team, the expertise of the audit firm and the resources available to it, the identification of audit risk, the planning and execution of the audit and the terms of engagement.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders via an ordinary resolution that Grant Thornton UK LLP be re-appointed as auditor at the Annual General Meeting.
Grant Thornton UK LLP has confirmed its willingness to continue in office.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the Companys auditor and provides a forum through which the auditor reports to the Board.
Representatives of the auditor attend the Audit Committee meetings at least annually.
Internal audit The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
Tax adviser The Companys tax adviser Kinetic Partners, a division of Duff & Phelps, was appointed as tax adviser to the Company during 2015.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the tax adviser on an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board as to its appointment and remuneration.
Approved 21 March 2016 Steven Harris Chairman of the Audit Committee Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 55 56 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
