235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 38 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee, which comprises those Directors 5.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
considered to be independent by the Board, met three times Since the Company delegates its day-to-day operations during the course of the year and up to the date of this to third parties and has no employees, the Audit Annual Report.
Attendance by each Director is shown in the Committee has determined there is no requirement for table on page 23. such a function.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available for Responsibilities review on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committees main responsibilities during the year were: Principal Activities and Business 1.
To review the Companys half-year and annual report.
In In addition to fulfilling its main responsibilities as described particular, the Audit Committee considered whether the previously, the Audit Committee undertook the following: annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, held a tender process as a result of which a allowing shareholders to more easily assess the recommendation was made to the Board that PwC be Companys strategy, investment policy, business model appointed as Auditors to the Company with effect from and financial performance.
the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting 2.
To review the risk management and internal control held on 14 July 2014: processes of the Company and its key service providers.
reviewed the new arrangements with Frostrow and Further details of the Audit Committees review are OrbiMed and the appointment of the Depositary and included in the Internal Controls and Risk Management Prime Broker following the implementation of the AIFMD, section on page 39. including: 3.
To recommend the appointment of external Auditors, review of assurance reports on controls and also agreeing the scope of its work and its remuneration, consideration of the control environment at Frostrow, reviewing its independence and the effectiveness of the OrbiMed and J. P. Morgan: audit process.
meetings with, review and consideration of the Prime During the year the nature and scope of the audit Broker J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp: together with  LLPs PwCs obtaining a legal opinion on the responsibilities and audit plan were considered by the Audit Committee liability of each service provider: and, without PwC being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee met with PwC and Frostrow to discuss in Consideration of the performance of Frostrow and detail the outcome of the audit and the draft Annual OrbiMed in discharging their existing responsibilities.
The Audit Committee then met PwC, without Dealt with the significant reporting matters arising as Frostrow or OrbiMed, to review and discuss the outcome described below.
of the audit and the draft Annual Report.
Overall accuracy of the Annual Report 4.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by considering Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for the draft Annual Report, a letter from Frostrow in support of non-audit services to be provided by the Auditors and the letter of representation made by the Board to the authorises such on a case by case basis, having Auditors and the Auditors Report to the Audit Committee.
consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
Investments and Derivatives Non-audit fees of 15,700 were payable to the Auditors, The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by: PwC during the year for agreed upon procedures in relation to the Companys performance fee review and ensuring that all investment holdings and cash deposit other audit related assurance services.
balances had been agreed to an independent confirmation from the custodian or relevant counterparty: The Audit Committee has considered the extent and nature of non-audit work performed by PwC and is reconfirming its understanding of the processes in place satisfied that this did not impinge on their independence to record investment transactions and income, and to and is a cost effective way for the Company to operate.
value the portfolio: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 38 235876 Finsbury WWH pp38-pp47new 03 07 2015 12:37 Page 39 2 Governance Audit Committee Report continued reviewing and amending, where necessary, the risks are monitored and mitigating controls in place.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the Companys register of key risks in light of changes to the responsibility for the review and maintenance of the risk portfolio and the investment environment: matrix and it reviews, in detail, the risk matrix each time it gaining an overall understanding of the performance of meets, bearing in mind any changes to the Company, its the portfolio both in capital and revenue terms through environment or service providers since the last review.
Any comparison to the benchmark: and significant changes to the risk matrix are discussed with the Conducting a review of how the Companys derivative whole Board.
Directors Confirmation Performance Fees The Directors confirm that they have carried out a review of The Audit Committee approached and dealt with this matter the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control by noting that the Auditors, as a separate engagement, had and risk management during the year, as set out above and been requested to report to the Board on the accuracy of the that: performance fee calculation, and inputs to that calculation, a An ongoing procedure for identifying, evaluating and prior to the payment of all performance fees.
managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place for the year under review and up to 24 June 2015.
Internal Controls and Risk Management This procedure is regularly reviewed by the Board: and As set out on page 18 the Board is responsible for the risk b They are responsible for the Companys system of assessment and review of internal controls of the Company, internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness and undertaken in the context of the overall investment that it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve objective.
This can only provide reasonable not The review covers the key business, operational, compliance absolute assurance against material misstatement or and financial risks facing the Company.
judgment of what risks the Company faces, the Board has considered the Companys operations in the light of the following factors: the nature of the Company, with all management Jo Dixon functions outsourced to third party service providers: Chairman of the Audit Committee the nature and extent of risks which it regards as 24 June 2015 acceptable for the Company to bear within its overall investment objective: the threat of such risks becoming a reality: and The Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact of risk on its performance.
Against this background, a risk matrix has been developed which covers all key risks the Company faces, the likelihood of their occurrence and their potential impact, how these Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 39 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
