235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 30 Corporate Governance This Corporate Governance statement, on pages 30 to 37, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to Investment Companies.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: directors tenure the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore with the exception of Director tenure, which is addressed further on page 31, and the need for an internal audit function which is addressed further on page 38, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with Frostrow as AIFM and OrbiMed as Portfolio Manager - Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Sir Martin Smith, continues to be independent of the AIFM and the independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of whom with the exception of be independent of the Samuel D. Isaly who is the Managing Partner at OrbiMed, the Companys Portfolio Manager manager.
is independent of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
No other member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by Frostrow or OrbiMed, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, OrbiMed, Frostrow or any of its service providers.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 30 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 31 2 Governance Corporate Governance continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 3.
Directors should be submitted for All Directors submit themselves for annual election or re-election by shareholders.
The individual performance of each Director standing for election or re-election is Nomination for re-election evaluated annually by the remaining members of the Board and, if considered should not be assumed but be appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their based on disclosed procedures election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board should have a policy The Nominations Committee considers the structure of the Board and recognises the on tenure, which is disclosed in need for progressive refreshment.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily reduces their ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of the independent Directors is independent in character and judgment and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their judgment.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available for inspection on request at the office of the Companys AIFM and at the Annual General Meeting.
There should be full The Directors biographical details, set out on pages 23 and 24 demonstrate the wide disclosure of information range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the length of service of each Director are set out below: Length of service as at 24 June 2015 Sir Martin Smith 7 years Sarah Bates 2 years Jo Dixon 11 years Dr David Holbrook 7 years Samuel D. Isaly 20 years Doug McCutcheon 2 years Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 36.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 31 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 32 AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 6.
The Board should aim to The Nominations Committee considers annually the skills possessed by the Board and have a balance of skills, identifies any skill shortages to be filled by new Directors.
When considering new experience, length of appointments, the Committee reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add service and knowledge of persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill the company.
any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in their biographies set out on pages 23 and 24.
The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 22.
The Board should During the year the performance of the Board and its committees was evaluated by undertake a formal and BoardAlpha, an independent external firm.
BoardAlpha concluded that the Board and rigorous annual evaluation its committees had continued to perform strongly on shareholders behalf since their of its own performance and last review in 2012.
A further independent external review will be carried out in 2018. that of its committees and While the Board is satisfied that its structure, mix of skills and operation continue to be individual directors.
effective and relevant for the Company, the Directors, with the assistance of specialist independent advisers, have begun the process of reviewing the Boards needs and requirements over the long term.
Director remuneration The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews the fees paid to should reflect their duties, the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and responsibilities and the the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment value of their time spent.
and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairman takes no part in discussions regarding his own remuneration.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
The Independent Directors Subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Nominations should take the lead in the Committee are entitled to vote on candidates for the appointment of new Directors and appointment of new Directors on the recommendation for shareholders approval of the Directors seeking election or and the process should be re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The membership of the Committee disclosed in the annual report.
comprises solely those Directors considered to be independent by the Board.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 32 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 33 2 Governance Corporate Governance continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 10.
Directors should be New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The offered relevant training programme covers the Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary, through Frostrow, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is not applicable to Board should be brought the Company.
into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager 12.
Boards and managers The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the AIFM and should operate in a the Portfolio Manager is in attendance at each Board meeting.
The Chairman supportive, co-operative encourages open debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all and open environment.
The primary focus at The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the regular board meetings Board.
This includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, should be a review of the permitted types or categories of investments, the markets in which transactions investment performance may be undertaken, the amount or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any and associated matters, category of investment or in any one investment, and the Companys share issuance such as gearing, asset and share buy-back policies.
allocation, marketing The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial investor relations, peer data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and group information and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and industry issues.
shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of sufficient attention to agenda items under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at overall strategy.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 33 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 34 AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 15.
The Board should The Board has delegated the following activities to its committees: regularly review both the The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year performance of, and and reviews the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
This Committee contractual arrangements considers the quality, cost and remuneration method including the performance fee of with, the AIFM and the the service provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager against their contractual Portfolio manager or obligations.
It also considers the performance analysis provided by the AIFM and the executives of a Portfolio Manager.
The Audit Committee reviews the risk matrix and oversees the risk and control environment of the Company, including monitoring the internal control system in operation at its principal service providers.
Further details can be found on pages 38 to 40.
The Board should agree The Portfolio Management Agreement between the Company, the AIFM and the policies with the AIFM and Portfolio Manager sets out the limits of the Portfolio Managers authority, beyond which the Portfolio Manager Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed detailed guidelines and limits covering key operational with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
A representative from the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager attends each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Portfolio Manager is required to refer to the Board.
The AIFM has delegated the management of the Companys portfolio and also the voting powers relating to the securities held therein to the Portfolio Manager.
Contentious or sensitive matters are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on its website: www.
co. uk Reports on commissions paid by the Portfolio Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the level of the share price Companys shares in the market and has put in place a Discount Control Mechanism discount or premium if as described on page 22. any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board should monitor The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews, the performance and evaluate other service of all the Companys third party service providers, including the level and structure of providers.
fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 34 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 35 2 Governance Corporate Governance continued Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly Details of the Company activities undertaken to promote the Company and manage monitor the shareholder relations with shareholders are set out on pages 21 and 22.
In addition, all profile of the company and shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, where they are put in place a system for given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of canvassing shareholder OrbiMed.
views and for communicating Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the the Boards views to Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company shareholders.
Secretary at the Offices of Frostrow.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by take responsibility for, and the Board taking into account representations from the AIFM and the Portfolio have a direct involvement in, Manager, the Auditors, legal advisers and the Corporate Stockbroker.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims that shareholders are to provide them with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy provided with sufficient and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of information for them to informative Annual and Half Year reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, understand the risk reward through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
balance to which they are In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility for all key elements of exposed by holding the the Companys strategy and business model.
Further details can be found in the shares.
The annual report provides information on the Portfolio Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and, operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 20 and 22 and in note 18 beginning on page 63.
The Portfolio is listed on pages 8 to 10.
com, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports and announcements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 35 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 36 The Board and Committees Responsibility for effective governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources portfolio management to OrbiMed and risk management, company management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services to Frostrow.
The Board Chairman Sir Martin Smith Senior Independent Director Jo Dixon Four additional non-executive Directors, all considered independent except for Samuel D. Isaly, as noted on page 24.
Key responsibilities: to provide leadership and set strategy, values and standards within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: to ensure that a robust corporate governance framework is implemented: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Engagement & Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Jo Dixon Jo Dixon Sir Martin Smith All Independent Directors All Independent Directors All Independent Directors Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: to review regularly the to review the Companys to review regularly the Boards contracts, the performance financial reports: structure and composition: and remuneration of the and to oversee the risk and control Companys principal service environment and financial to make recommendations for providers: and reporting: and any changes or new appointments.
to set the remuneration policy to review the performance of of the Company.
Copies of the full terms of reference, which clearly define public or private in the UK or abroad to secure any improper the responsibilities of each Committee, can be obtained benefit for themselves or for the Company.
from the Company Secretary, will be available for inspection The Board applies the same Standards to its service at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at the providers in their activities for the Company.
A copy of the Companys Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy can be found on its website at www.
The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy policy is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The Board has adopted a zero tolerance approach to instances of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly it expressly Relations with Shareholders prohibits any Director or associated persons when acting on Details of the Companys activities undertaken to promote behalf of the Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, the Company and manage relations with shareholders are offering or promising to pay or authorise any payment, set out on pages 21 and 22.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 36 235876 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp37new 03 07 2015 12:36 Page 37 2 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Board supports the principle that the Annual General rights on any shares that are held as collateral in connection Meeting be used to communicate with investors, with all with the overdraft facility provided by J. P. Morgan Clearing Directors attending the Annual General Meeting, under the Corp. Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made Nominee Share Code available to shareholders at the meeting and are also Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the published on the Companys website at Company undertakes: www.
to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of shareholder communications, so long as an indication of Representatives from the Portfolio Manager attend the quantities has been provided in advance: Annual General Meeting and give a presentation on investment matters to those present.
to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to attend general meetings, provided the The Company has adopted a nominee share code which is correct authority from the nominee company is available: set out later on this page.
and The annual and half-year financial reports, and a monthly fact sheet are available to all shareholders.
The Board, with the that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme or advice of Frostrow, reviews the format of the annual and ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, half-year financial reports so as to ensure they are useful to including details of general meetings, together with a all shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority In accordance with best practice, the annual report, including to attend.
the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is sent to Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Board and the AIFM have delegated authority to By order of the Board OrbiMed to vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its behalf by J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp.
The Board has instructed that OrbiMed submit votes for such shares Frostrow Capital LLP wherever possible.
This accords with current best practice Company Secretary whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
24 June 2015 OrbiMed may refer to the Board on any matters of a contentious nature.
The Company does not retain voting Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 37 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
