Governance and remuneration OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Our governance structure ensures that the right people have access to the right information Board Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Develops strategy and leads British Land Leads the Board and ensures Work with and challenge Executive Directors.
to achieve long term success, determines it operates effectively.
nature and extent of significant risks and Maintains a culture of openness Contribute a broad range of experience maintains a satisfactory level of dialogue and debate.
with shareholders Ensures effective dialogue between the Board and shareholders.
Committees of the Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Report on their activities to the Board Oversees financial and narrative reporting, Leads process for Board appointments internal control, risk management systems and evaluates composition of the Board and audit processes and its Committees R eport of the Audit Committee R eport of the Nomination Committee see pages 78 to 81 see pages 82 to 85 Management Committees Risk Committee Executive Committee Report on their activities to the Board Manages strategic and operational Ongoing management of the Group.
and its Committees, as appropriate risk in achieving the Companys Considers day-to-day operational matters performance goals.
Recommends appropriate risk appetite Reviews performance of Groups assets levels to the Board.
Monitors the Companys risk exposure.
Reviews operation of Reports to the Board.
Membership: Executive Directors Reports to the Audit Committee.
and five senior executives Sally Jones, Chaired by Chief Financial Officer.
Darren Richards, Joff Sharpe, Membership: Executive Directors.
Health and Safety Committee Operations Committee Reviews performance against targets Assists the Executive Committee and drives forward actions in pursuit through owning the operational delivery of the Companys health and safety goals.
Reports to the Risk Committee.
Membership: senior individuals across Chaired by Chief Financial Officer.
Membership: staff with relevant responsibilities from across the business.
Three sub-committees: Construction, Managed Portfolio and Head Office staff committee.
70 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Matters reserved for Board approval A.
1.1 Transactions and financing arrangements over 100 million.
Employee share and option schemes.
Documents for distribution to shareholders and the Annual Report and Accounts.
Establishing authority levels below those of the Board.
Chief Executive and Executive Directors Day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy.
Remuneration Committee Sets remuneration of the Chairman, ChiefExecutive, Executive Directors and Company Secretary R emuneration report see pages 86 to 112 Investment Committee Sustainability Committee Reviews, approves or recommends Custodian for sustainability strategy capital transactions.
Chaired by Chief Financial Officer.
Recommends major transactions Membership: executives with defined for Board approval.
Inv estment: sticking to our strategy see page 75 Charity and Community Committee Sustainability Panel Approves all spend under the charity Receives and provides expert and community budget.
comment on emerging social, Reports to the Executive Committee.
Chaired by Senior Retail Asset Manager.
Challenges British Lands sustainability strategy.
Membership includes four independent experts.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
