Governance and remuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code is the standard against which we were required to measure ourselves during the year To ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision, there is a written division of responsibilities between the Chairman responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive responsible for running the Companys business, which has been approved by the Board A.
The Executive Directors, led by the Chief Executive, are responsible for ensuring that the business is run in accordance with the Boards strategy.
The relatively small number of employees at British Land means that the Executive Directors are involved in, or aware of, all major activities of the Group hence they are extremely well placed to ensure that actions are aligned with the Boards strategy.
This is exemplified by the process by which investment opportunities are appraised.
Investment: sticking to our strategy see page 75 The Board sets the parameters and controls within which the Companys management may operate when undertaking the day-to-day running of This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 outlines the business.
These controls ensure that decisions are taken by people how we have applied the Codes principles and provisions.
with the correct authority to do so.
The Board considers that the Company has fully complied with The division between major decisions reserved for Board approval the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 and confirms and other decisions delegated to the Executive Directors is formally that it will detail in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 how it has documented A.
The Executive Directors make decisions within applied the principles and provisions of the Code, as revised by the these predefined parameters.
Decisions that would normally fall within Financial Reporting Council in 2014. these parameters may still be taken to the full Board for approval where such decisions relate to activities outside the ordinary course of business A copy of the Code is available to view at www.
uk or where the Executive Directors consider it appropriate to do so.
Specialised Management Committees deal with their specific areas of Leadership responsibility before making decisions where they have authority to do The Boards core responsibilities include setting British Lands so, or recommending actions for Board-level approval, if this is required.
strategic aims and leading the Company as it works to achieve A key consideration when making each decision hinges on whether the these aims and attain long term, lasting success.
The Board proposed action is aligned with the strategy the Board has developed.
focuses on strategy throughout the year and the annual Strategy Days provide an opportunity to do this.
Progress against, and the Management Committees see pages 70 to 71 appropriateness of, the agreed strategy are considered at Board meetings during the year, in light of Company performance and The Chairman meets with individual Directors outside of formal changes to the external environment A.
Board meetings, as part of each Directors continuing contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy to achieve superior returns for The Strategy Days see page 74 shareholders.
This process also allows for open, two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
By these means, the Chairman is continually aware of the views of individual Directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they become a risk to the Company.
Effectiveness see page 74 72 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Culture and composition of the Board The high calibre of debate and the participation of all Directors, The composition of the Board is a fundamental driver of its success Executive and Non-Executive, allow the Board to utilise the as it provides strong and effective leadership: our Non-Executive experience and skills of the individual Directors to their maximum Directors provide a breadth of knowledge, skills and experience, potential and make well-considered decisions that are in the best as detailed in their biographies on pages 66 and 67.
The Nomination interest of the Company.
Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and Board-level Committees and assessing whether the balance The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows, Lynn of skills, experience, knowledge and independence is appropriate Gladden, William Jackson, Tim Score, Lord Turnbull and Laura to enable them to operate effectively B.
In making this determination, the Board has considered whether each Director is independent in Following the resignation of Dido Harding on 10 December 2014, character and judgement, and whether there are relationships the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition of the Board or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the and recommended the appointments of Lynn Gladden and Laura Directors judgement B.
Wade-Gery on 20 March and 13 May 2015 respectively.
The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors biographies The procedure for the appointment of new Directors is rigorous demonstrate that they are of the stature and experience required and transparent.
It is explained in more detail in the Report of the to properly perform their roles as independent Non-Executive Nomination Committee B.
Following this years Board evaluation, the Board believes each Non-Executive Director standing for election or Report of the Nomination Committee see pages 82 to 85 re-election at the next AGM continues to effectively fulfil and remains committed to their role within British Land.
The terms Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are and all Directors offer themselves for election or re-election by available for inspection at the Companys registered office and shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM each year, if at the AGM B.
3.2. the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, deems it appropriate that they remain in office B.
Lord Turnbull has been a Non-Executive Director since April 2006.
Key activities of the Board 2015 He has now completed nine years in office.
Whilst taking into account the need to progressively refresh its members through new Regular agenda items included: appointments, the Board also recognises the importance of continuity outcomes of the Board Strategy Days, and feedback: and the value that Directors who serve for many years are able to reports of the activities of the Audit including risk, bring.
When a Non-Executive Directors tenure goes further than Remuneration and Nomination Committees: nine years their independence is carefully reviewed and monitored.
Chief Executives Management Reports: quarterly updates Following a rigorous review of Lord Turnbulls contribution and on the business including investor relations: independence over the years, the Nomination Committee was happy to updates on the portfolio, including developments, acquisitions recommend to the Board that it was appropriate for him to remain in and disposals: office and the Board is satisfied that he remains independent B.
2.3. updates on financing: results of the Board performance appraisal and feedback: We continue to have a strong mix of experienced individuals on the reappointment of Directors at the 2014 AGM: Board, with the majority being Non-Executive Directors who are conflicts of interest: independent and can offer an external perspective on the business approval of year end results, the Annual Report and Accounts, and constructively challenge the Executive Directors, particularly the AGM Circular and dividends: when developing the Companys strategy B.
The people: development and succession planning: Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management health & safety.
in meeting their agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance.
They satisfy themselves of the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of Key agenda items also considered risk management are robust and defensible A.
4. in the year included: acquisitions: Board of Directors Biographies see pages 66 to 67 disposals: financing: The Board culture is one of openness and constructive debate: sustainability.
the Directors voice their opinions in a relaxed and respectful environment, allowing coherent discussion.
The Chairman is responsible for maintaining this culture.
He does so by ensuring information of an appropriate quality is provided in a timely manner before Board meetings: the opportunity to properly consider such information in advance leads to focused discussion in the boardroom.
When running Board meetings the Chairman maintains a collaborative atmosphere and ensures that all Directors contribute to debates.
The Chairman arranges informal meetings and events throughout the year to help build constructive relationships between the Board members A.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Governance and remuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Throughout the year presentations and reports on specific aspects The Strategy Days of the business and individual assets are also delivered, along with The annual Strategy Days are attended by the full Board and the updates on the regulatory and external environment.
Care is taken to ensure that information is circulated in good time The Executive Directors and senior executives deliver a number before both Board and Committee meetings whenever possible, and of presentations to the Board, providing an in-depth analysis that reports are presented clearly and contain the appropriate level on all aspects of the business and the external environment.
of detail to allow valid conclusions to be drawn.
It is the Company The Strategy Days are an opportunity to discuss, challenge and Secretarys role to ensure good information flows within the Board and develop the Companys strategy.
its Committees, and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the As well as considering the Group as a whole and the overall Board on governance matters, through the Chairman B.
5.2. corporate strategy, consideration is given to each part of the Groups current and prospective portfolio, and to Group financing.
The Non-Executive Directors are therefore able to monitor the management of the business and the implementation of the strategic The days are carefully structured to achieve a balance between aims effectively, and are able to assess the suitability of the current presentations and time for debate and discussion.
strategy and the performance of the Chairman and Executive Directors B.
Areas focused on at the February 2015 Board evaluation Strategy Days included: The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed corporate: exploiting competitive advantage and annually, with an independent, externally facilitated review being long term trends: conducted at least once every three years.
The latest external review finance: supporting long term vision: was conducted in 2015 and covered the following areas B.
6.1 and retail: creating and operating places retailers and B.
6.2 : consumers prefer: offices: leveraging our placemaking skills to enhance and grow role and organisation of the Board our offices portfolio: Non-Executive Directors residential: creating the right product for the London market: Executive Directors development: managing exposure and replenishing the pipeline: agenda people: development and succession planning: corporate governance building our capabilities to create Places People Prefer.
quality of information monitoring Company performance: and Board leadership and culture.
Effectiveness The external facilitator who assisted the Board and its Committees, Regular Board and Board-level Committee meetings are scheduled Ffion Hague, has no connection with the Company beyond evaluating throughout the year, and the Directors ensure that they allocate the Board B.
6.2. sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively.
Occasionally, Board meetings may be held at short notice, when Board-level decisions of a The overall conclusion from the externally facilitated evaluation time-critical nature need to be made.
Non-Executive Directors letters was that the Board of British Land operated very effectively with a of appointment set out the time commitments expected and each continuous, high standard of performance throughout the past year.
Directors attendance record shown on page 68 is considered when assessing whether they should stand for reappointment by In addition, peer reviews took place at a number of private meetings shareholders.
Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are dependent between the Directors.
The Chairman met each Non-Executive in part on their level of attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
Director individually to discuss their contribution to the Board and the Senior Independent Director met with the other Non-Executive The Chairman considers that all the Directors continue to devote Directors to discuss the performance of the Chairman A.
4.2. sufficient time to discharging their duties to the required high The Remuneration Committee was provided with an appraisal of the standard and remain committed to their roles.
British Lands Chief Executives performance by the Chairman, and was provided policy is to allow Executive Directors to take one non-executive with a written appraisal of the performance of the Executive directorship at another FTSE company, subject to British Land Directors by the Chief Executive.
External appointments of the Directors are disclosed in their biographies.
Board training and development British Land provides for all Directors a tailored and thorough The Directors are required to notify the Company of any potential induction, including the opportunity to meet with senior executives conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors to be given an overview of their specific areas of responsibility within of British Land.
All potential conflicts of interest are recorded and the business, and the opportunity to visit the Companys key properties reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
The Non-Executive Directors are kept well informed of the key The Company also offers Directors opportunities to update and developments in the business by both the Executive Directors and refresh their knowledge on an ongoing basis, to enable them to other senior executives, through regular reports and presentations.
continue fulfilling their roles as Board members and Committee Reports include Management Reports delivered by the Chief Executive members effectively.
This includes training opportunities and and updates on the activities of the Risk Committee and further visits to the Companys assets, as required.
Board held one of its meetings at the Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield.
Regulatory and environmental updates are delivered to the Board and relevant committees by external speakers, including corporate governance updates B.
74 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Accountability The Board is responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts Investment: sticking to our strategy and, as confirmed in the Directors responsibility statement, the Board believes that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as Executive Directors are involved throughout the investment a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the process and alignment with the Boards strategy is considered information necessary to assess British Lands position, performance, from the initial discussion of a transaction, right through to business model and strategy C. 1.1 and C. 3.4.
The basis on which final approval.
the Company creates and preserves value over the long term is described in the business model C. 1.2.
All new investment opportunities are discussed at weekly deal sourcing meetings, attended by Executive Committee 1 Directors responsibility statement see page 115 members and investment executives.
Potentially attractive deals that are in line with strategy are selected to be Busines s model see pages 14 to 21 investigated and analysed in detail by project teams.
The Annual Report and Accounts is compiled by the relevant responsible Project teams assess whether investment opportunities individuals across the Company.
Specific sections are reviewed by should be pursued, conducting detailed property and 2 Department Heads and Executive Committee members as appropriate, corporate due diligence: ongoing dialogue with relevant ensuring that all key stakeholders across the business are involved.
Executive Committee members takes place throughout The Executive Directors are closely involved in drafting and reviewing the process.
their relevant sections of the Report, before formally signing them off.
Finance, Investor Relations and Company Secretariat conduct a Investment opportunities with potential are presented for robust due diligence process, verifying key statements made within Investment Committee approval.
Depending on the size 3 the Annual Report and Accounts.
The full Annual Report and Accounts and nature of a transaction, the Investment Committee is then reviewed thoroughly by the Audit Committee, before it is can approve the proposed transaction outright or presented to the Board for approval.
recommend it for approval by the full Board.
The procedure undertaken to enable the Board to provide the fair, Investment opportunities are presented to the full Board balanced and understandable confirmation to shareholders has for approval, when required.
4 been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The process is enhanced by a specific meeting between the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and the Group Financial Controller and their relevant team members to review and document the key considerations undertaken to ensure that information presented is fair, balanced and understandable.
A report detailing those The Groups internal control system is built on the following considerations was reviewed by the Audit Committee alongside fundamental principles, and is subject to review by Internal Audit: a summary of the detailed procedures undertaken and the full a defined schedule of matters reserved for approval by the full Board Annual Report and Accounts.
a detailed authorisation process: no material commitments are entered into without thorough review and approval by more than Risk management and internal control one authorised person The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks formal documentation of all significant transactions it is willing to take in achieving the Companys strategic objectives.
a robust system of business and financial planning: includes cash flow and profitability forecasting and scenario analysis performed The maintenance of the Companys risk management and internal on major corporate, property and financing proposals control systems is the responsibility of the Board, as is ensuring that a robust process for property investment appraisals they continue to operate effectively.
The Board combines a top-down monitoring of key outcomes, particularly expenditure and risk review with a complementary bottom-up approach to ensure performance of significant investments, against budget that risks are fully considered.
As well as complying with the Code, and forecast the best practice recommendations in Internal Control: Guidance clearly defined policies and review of actual performance to Directors have been adopted and the Companys internal control against policies framework has been assessed against the internationally recognised benchmarking of property performance against external sources COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework.
The latter such as Investment Property Databank assessment showed that all key control elements are in place.
key controls testing Internal control and risk management processes apply equally to all a comprehensive property and corporate insurance programme: and entities which British Land administrates, including all material joint a formal whistle-blowing policy.
The Report of the Audit Committee provides more detail on the British Lands approach to risk, including the roles of the Board internal control system that operated through the year, including and the Risk Committee in setting risk appetite and monitoring the approach to Internal Audit.
risk exposure, is described in the Managing risk in delivering our strategy section of the report.
Report of the Audit Committee see pages 78 to 81 Managing risk in delivering our strategy see pages 56 to 57 The Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control over financial reporting annually, including the Formal and transparent arrangements exist for considering how systems of control of material joint ventures and funds.
During the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles course of its review of the risk management and internal control are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the systems over financial reporting, the Board has not identified, nor Companys auditor.
been advised of, a failing or weakness which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not required C. 2.1.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Governance and remuneration GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED A number of policies are in place to ensure that the Company not The Operations Committee OpCo, which is comprised of senior only meets its legal obligations, but also behaves ethically, acts individuals across British Lands business functions, assists the with integrity and protects its assets from the unlawful activities Executive Committee with operational matters arising in the of others.
These include an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, a day-to-day management of the business.
The OpCo forms a link Competition Policy and a Fraud Policy.
All employees are made between the Executive Committee and wider teams of employees, aware of the policies and procedures in place, with understanding enhancing the flow of information around the Company, both enhanced by staff communications and training.
upwards and downwards, to improve the strategic and tactical decisions that are made.
The aim of the OpCo is to strengthen Going concern collaboration across the Company in driving initiatives that help The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to us achieve our objectives.
The OpCo also plays an increasingly affect its future performance and position are set out in the Strategic important role in the development of the operational leaderships Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity areas of our business, such as technology.
position and borrowing facilities, together with the Groups financing policy, are described in the Performance Review.
British Land continues to implement a number of initiatives to help develop our employees and grow internal talent, reinforcing Performance Review the Company culture of excellence and embedding values and behaviours.
As a relatively small Company in terms of number of Financial review see pages 49 to 52 employees we are proud to be able to invest in our people on an individual basis, taking time to understand specific requirements Financial policies and principles see pages 53 to 55 to progress careers.
More information is provided in the Report of the Nomination Committee.
The Group currently has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits which are expected to be sufficient to meet its Developing people at British Land see page 85 financing requirements for several years.
The Groups success at raising 1.9 billion of financing over the last 12 months including Wellbeing see pages 32 to 33 joint ventures and funds gives the Directors confidence in the Groups ability to raise further finance as and when required.
We have well-established all-employee share schemes to incentivise employees at all levels in the Company, and align their interests with The Group has substantial headroom against covenants on those of shareholders by building a holding of British Land shares.
unsecured banking facilities and is not overly reliant on any single Separate pension fund reports are made available to members.
It also benefits from a secure income stream from leases with long average lease terms, and is not over reliant on any single Staff Turnover occupier or industry group.
2015 2014 2013 Head office 31 12% 32 15% 28 13% Covenant ratio see page 55 Broadgate Estates 28 11% 42 20% 31 16% The Directors therefore believe that the Group is well placed to Total average 59 12% 74 17% 59 14% manage its financing and other business risks satisfactorily in the The benefit of diversity, both on the Board and throughout the current economic environment.
The Directors have a reasonable Company, continues to be a key consideration when searching expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate for candidates for Board and other appointments.
In addition, resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the Company continues to support the Pathways to Property future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis programme, which aims to increase diversity within the property in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts C. 1.3. industry as a whole by attracting students from a variety of backgrounds into the property sector.
Taxation Our principles of good governance extend to our responsible Our view on diversity see pages 83 to 85 approach to tax.
It remains important to our stakeholders that the Companys approach to tax is aligned to the long term Funding to charity and good causes values and strategy of the Group.
The Groups tax strategy British Land has a Community Charter and Charitable and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer, with close Community Funding Guidelines, approved by the Executive involvement of Executive Directors and senior management Committee, which state that giving is focused on young people, in all activity.
The Audit Committee is also presented with education, training, employment and local regeneration.
Both an annual tax update for review.
can be found on our website at www.
com policies Employees We allocate funding to national, regional and local community Having expert people at British Land is one of the four core elements causes, with most funds going to support initiatives around our of our business model.
This applies both to the individuals on the properties and developments, with particular focus on those which Board who have responsibility for leading the Company, and the have a positive impact on young people and education, employment employees who work throughout British Land.
and training and local regeneration of facilities.
Expert people see page 21 The Charity and Community Committee, which approves all spend under the Charity and Community Budget, is chaired by Edward We encourage a high degree of employee involvement in the Company Cree, Senior Retail Asset Manager, and reports to the Executive and provide regular information on business activities and explanations Committee on an annual basis.
of strategy through Company meetings, training sessions, internal communications and an annual company conference.
Employee feedback is also strongly encouraged.
76 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Donations during the year totalled 1,287,500, compared with 1,120,699 Significant emphasis is placed on the importance of feeding in the previous year.
shareholder views, both positive and negative, back to the Board.
A written investor relations report which includes direct market British Land does not make any donations to political organisations.
feedback on activity during the period is presented at each scheduled Board meeting for discussion by the full Board.
Shareholder opinions Health and Safety are also given due consideration throughout the annual Strategy We have received formal recognition of our focus on health and Days E. 1.1 and E. 1.2. safety through receiving OHSAS18001 accreditation.
As part of this process we have reviewed our approach to Health and Safety management to ensure that we consistently achieve best practice The Strategy Days see page 74 across all activities in the business construction, managed portfolio and head office to deliver Places People Prefer to our employees and our customers.
Key investor relations activities during the year included RIDDOR Year ended 31 March 2015 May 2014 Full-year results presentation.
Accident Frequency Rate Total RIDDOR Accidents Private Client dinner.
Construction 0.19 per 100,000 hours worked 8 Retail 0.01 per 100,000 footfall 22 June 2014 Investor property conferences, London and Amsterdam.
Offices 7.50 per 100,000 workers 3 Investor roadshows, Paris and Far East.
Head office 0 per 100,000 full time equivalents 0 July 2014 Q1 interim management statement, Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 investor call.
Remuneration Analyst property tour, Regents Place.
The Companys Remuneration Policy is designed to attract and retain the best people to the Company, allowing us to maintain a strong and September 2014 Investor roadshows, Scotland and US.
effective Board and leadership team.
Investor property conferences, New York and London.
The Policy is also structured to complement our strategy, linking November 2014 Half-year results presentation.
a significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration to Half-year results roadshow, London.
The Policy was developed Private Client roadshow, London.
by the Remuneration Committee D. 2.2 and was approved by shareholders in July 2014.
December 2014 Investor property conference, London.
Investor property tour, the Leadenhall Building.
Summary of Remuneration Policy see pages 88 to 97 January 2015 Investor property conference, London.
Relations with shareholders Trading statement, investor video and call.
The Board remains committed to maintaining open channels February 2015 Investor roadshow, Netherlands.
It is important to us that shareholders understand the Companys strategy and objectives: March 2015 Investor conference, London and US.
these must be explained clearly and shareholders feedback must Investor property tour, Clarges Marketing Suite.
be heard and the issues and questions raised properly considered.
British Land aims to be informative and accessible to all shareholders.
British Land has a dedicated Investor Relations team which reports For results and other key announcements we provide information on to the Chief Financial Officer.
Communication with investors and a timely basis to both retail and institutional shareholders.
A number analysts is an ongoing process throughout the year.
This includes of case studies, covering topics that range from profiles of our key regular scheduled Investor Relations events, summarised in the box assets to sustainability activities, are also available to view online.
to the right, one-to-one and group meetings with Executive Directors Shareholders can ask questions at any time via our contacts page and tours of our properties, as well as regular contact with the on the website.
During the year, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and our Investor Relations team met with Contact British Land representatives from over 180 institutions.
com contacts The full Board plans to attend the AGM, which provides an We are pleased with the level of engagement with shareholders opportunity for all shareholders to question the Directors in person.
achieved during the year and the Board also recognises the important contribution of providers of capital other than shareholders, namely our lenders and bond holders.
We maintain a regular and open dialogue with our lenders to help us understand their investment appetite and criteria.
Lord Turnbull is the Senior Independent Director and he is available to address any concerns shareholders may wish to raise other than via the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors A.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
