Governance and remuneration REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We are committed to monitoring the integrity of the Groups reporting Welcome to the report of the Audit Committee.
Key initiatives adopted by the Committee this year included overseeing changes to the Companys finance reporting and forecasting systems and the adoption of a revised non-audit services and fees policy, and a policy on future audit tenders.
Composition of the Committee C. 3.1 The Committee comprises Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows and myself as Committee Chairman.
All of the Committee members are considered to be appropriately qualified and experienced to fulfil their role.
However, for the purposes of the Code, I am the member of the Committee nominated as having significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Board of Directors Biographies see pages 66 to 67 Tim Score Activities of the Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee operates within defined Terms of Reference, which can be found on the Companys website at www.
Committee members attendance during the year ended 31 March 2015 During the year the Committee has undertaken each of its principal responsibilities, receiving relevant reports from the valuers, Tim Score 5 5 the internal and external auditors, the Risk Committee and Aubrey Adams 5 5 management, and challenging assumptions and judgements made.
Simon Borrows 5 5 The table on page 80 details the responsibilities of the Committee and its activities throughout the year.
Audit Committee regular attendees by invitation The Committee performs a detailed review of the content and tone  LLP Independent external auditor to the Group of the annual and half-year press releases and the Annual Report Knight Frank and CBRE Groups external valuers and Accounts, as well as trading updates.
The Committee has KPMG Groups Internal Audit function outsourced satisfied itself that controls over the accuracy and consistency John Gildersleeve Chairman of the Company of information presented in the Annual Report and Accounts Chris Grigg Chief Executive are robust, and has confirmed to the Board that it believes this Lucinda Bell Chief Financial Officer and Chairman Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable of the Risk Committee C. 3.4.
An assurance opinion is obtained for the Company from Sally Jones Head of Strategy and Investor Relations  over the sustainability statement and 1 a verification exercise is performed by management to ensure Victoria Penrice Company Secretary and Secretary to the Audit and Risk Committees consistency and accuracy of information presented.
Rob Hudson Group Financial Controller The allocation of time spent on the Committees principal Marc Furlonger Head of Financial Forecasting responsibilities is shown in the chart on page 79.
Significant and Financial Reporting additional time continues to be spent by members of the Audit Paul Macey Head of Financial Reporting Committee meeting with executive management to understand Nicola Thomas Head of Property Valuation the key issues.
The Committee regularly meets with the external 2 Charles Middleton Head of Tax auditor and internal auditor without management being present Sian Kilkenny JV and Funds Reporting Manager to ensure honest and challenging conversations take place.
Risk Committee reporting 1 Victoria Penrice resigned on 8 May 2015.
2 Charles Middleton was appointed Interim Company Secretary on 8 May 2015.
78 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Effectiveness of the External Audit process The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year Following best practice and in accordance with its Terms of ended 31 March 2015 are detailed in the table on page 81, alongside Reference, the Committee annually reviews the audit requirements the actions taken by the Committee to address these issues C. 3.8. of the Group, both for the business and in the context of the external environment, and considers whether or not to undertake a formal Policy on the auditor providing non-audit tender.
There are no contractual obligations which would restrict services C. 3.8 the selection of a different auditor.
Furthermore, and in view of the With respect to other services provided by the external auditor, the statutory audit market reform, the Committee agreed to consider the following framework was in place during the year.
need for a competitive tender for the role of auditor every five years, Audit related services: audit related services include formal with a competitive tender taking place at least every ten years.
To reporting relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars the extent that the auditor did not rotate earlier through this process, and various work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Where the the Company will rotate its auditor in line with the legislation.
external auditor must carry out the work because of their office the The Committee places great importance on ensuring a high quality, external auditor is selected.
In other circumstances the selection effective External Audit process.
When conducting the annual depends on which firm is best suited.
review, the Committee considers the performance of the external Sustainability assurance: the selection depends on which firm is auditor as well as their independence, compliance with relevant best suited and is reviewed on a five yearly basis.
Currently the statutory, regulatory and ethical standards and objectivity.
external auditor provides an assurance opinion over the sustainability statement.
Allocation of time spent at Audit Tax advisory: the selection depends on which firm is best suited in Committee meetings during the year the circumstances.
General consulting: the external auditor is not selected to provide Reporting and External Audit 48% general consultancy services except in certain limited Valuations 20% circumstances, and then only after consideration that they are best Risk and internal control 15% placed to provide the service and that their independence and Internal Audit 10% objectivity will not be compromised.
Other 7% The following commitment protocol operated throughout the year and applied to any engagement of other work excluding audit and half-yearly reporting performed by the external auditor: Audit Committee approval is required where there are any doubts as to whether the external auditor has a conflict of interest.
As disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report, following a successful tender Approval by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of the in early 2014,  were appointed as auditor Committee is required for each additional project over 0.1 million for the financial year under review.
The Committee is pleased with in value where cumulative fees for other work performed by the the insights brought by the new audit team following a satisfactory external auditor are projected to exceed 75% of the combined fee transition from Deloitte.
An assessment of  for audit and half-yearly reporting review work.
effectiveness, its processes, audit quality and performance will be undertaken after completion of this years audit.
However, in line with the proposals under the statutory audit market reform, the Committee agreed that from 1 April 2015: The Committee reviewed  proposals The total non-audit fees would be limited to 70% of the audit fees for the audit and is confident that appropriate plans were put in in any one year.
The audit and non-audit fees for the three year place to carry out an effective and high quality audit.
Particular average would be calculated in line with the methodology set out attention was paid to the audit plan and its appropriateness for in the 2014 EU Regulations but would additionally include fees for the Group.
 confirmed to the Committee joint ventures and funds: that they maintained appropriate internal safeguards to ensure Audit Committee approval is required where there are any doubts their independence and objectivity.
The Committee considered as to whether the external auditor has a conflict of interest: and and approved  assessment of their Approval by the Audit Committee Chairman would be required for independence and it has recommended their reappointment to each additional project over 0.1m in value where the cumulative the Board, approval of which will be sought from shareholders.
fees for non-audit work were projected to exceed 50% of the audit  raised no significant issues during fee in any financial year.
During the year no project approvals by the Audit Committee Significant issues Chairman were required.
The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level of judgement Internal Audit and potential impact on the financial statements and wider business The Companys Internal Audit function is outsourced to KPMG, who model.
Identification of the issues deemed to be significant takes reports regularly to the Committee, as detailed in the table on page place following open, frank and challenging discussion between the 80.
The Committee monitors the performance of the Internal Audit Committee members, with input from the Chief Financial Officer, the function throughout the year, as well as performing an annual review external and internal auditors, external experts and other relevant of its effectiveness.
The Committee believes KPMG continues to British Land employees.
discharge its Internal Audit duties effectively C. 3.6.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Governance and remuneration REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Principal responsibilities Key areas formally discussed and reviewed of the Committee by the Committee during 2015 Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial Results, commentary and announcements.
Reporting statements and all formal announcements relating Key accounting policy judgements, including valuations.
and External to the Companys financial performance: reviewing Impact of future financial reporting standards.
Audit financial reporting judgements contained within them.
Making recommendations to the Board regarding the External auditor effectiveness.
appointment of the external auditor and approving Half-yearly external auditor reports on planning, conclusions and final opinion.
the external auditors remuneration and terms of External auditor management letter, containing observations arising from the engagement C. 3.7. annual audit leading to recommendations for internal control or financial Monitoring and reviewing the external auditors reporting improvement.
Developing and implementing policy on the External auditors remuneration and policy on non-audit fees and audit engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit tender frequency.
services, taking into account relevant guidance.
Monitoring and reviewing the valuation process.
Annual report on the effectiveness of our valuers, which considers the quality Valuations Review of assumptions and methodology.
of the valuation process and judgement, with a half-yearly update.
Valuer presentations to the Committee.
Maintaining an effective internal control environment.
The outputs from the assessment of the risk register, including identification Risk and Approving the Risk Management Policy, including any of the Groups principal risks and movement in the exposure during the year.
internal changes or updates made.
The status of key risk indicators including any indicators which had been control Reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties, as breached internally.
identified by the Risk Committee, including those that Oversight of the activities of the Risk Committee, including review of the could affect solvency or liquidity.
minutes of all Risk Committee meetings during the year.
Reviewing the risk management disclosures on our An annual report on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
approach to risk in the Half Year and Annual Reports.
Monitoring the timely response to audit findings and control improvements.
An annual fraud risk assessment.
Insurance programme for property, development and corporate risks.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Monitoring KPMGs execution of the Internal Audit and reviewing the resultant Internal Companys Internal Audit function, including its plans, audit reports and findings.
Audit level of resources and budget.
Reviewing the annual Internal Audit plan, including consideration of its Reviewing internal audit reports, recommendations alignment to the principal risks, consideration of emerging areas of risk and progress in implementation of those and coverage across the Group and its joint ventures.
Internal Audit programme of review of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and an assurance map showing the coverage of audit work over three years against the principal risks.
Internal Audit charter, defining its role and responsibilities.
The Groups Internal Audit function reports, including those on: treasury, residential sales, HR, non-British Land accounted joint ventures, investment transactions health check, development completion, Meadowhall joint venture, expenses, Sainsburys joint venture, development planning, procurement phase 1 and Annual Internal Controls overview.
Reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference and Review of the Audit Committees Terms of Reference.
Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
Considering compliance with legal requirements, Maintenance of the Groups REIT status.
accounting standards and the Listing Rules.
Compliance with the latest revision of the Code, in view of changes to be Reviewing the whistle-blowing policy and operation effective from 1 October 2014.
Compliance with changes in accounting standards: see note 1 to the Financial Statements page 129 for details of applicable standards.
Annual tax update and tax policy.
Review of  Corporate Responsibility Assurance Report.
Valuations valuation process, market conditions and significant judgements The external valuation of British Lands portfolio is a key determinant made.
The Companys external auditor reviews the valuations and of the Groups balance sheet, performance and senior management valuation process, having full access to the valuers to determine remuneration.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the that due process has been followed using appropriate information.
Committee undertakes a rigorous approach to monitoring and It reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
The valuation process reviewing the valuation process and the effectiveness of the Groups is also subject to regular internal audit review, the most recent being valuers, Knight Frank and CBRE.
The Committee performs a undertaken by KPMG on behalf of the Company in 2013. half-yearly review of the effectiveness of the valuers, focusing on a qualitative analysis of capital values: in terms of market testing, For the valuation of the Groups wholly-owned assets, the Company yield benchmarking, availability of comparable market evidence has fixed fee arrangements with Knight Frank and CBRE, in line and major outliers to subsector movements.
with the recommendations of the Carsberg Committee Report.
Copies of the valuation certificates of Knight Frank and CBRE The valuers present directly to the Audit Committee at the half-year can be found on the website at www.
and year end review of results, including confirmation of their 80 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Significant issues considered by the Committee How these issues were addressed during the year by the Committee Although conducted by external valuers, the The external valuers present to the Committee and are asked Valuations valuation of the investment property portfolio is to highlight any significant judgements or disagreements with inherently subjective as it is made on the basis management.
The Committee reviews the valuation outcomes and of assumptions made by the valuer which may challenges the external valuers assumptions, procedures and not prove to be accurate.
The outcome of this methodologies.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of both judgement is significant to the Group in terms external valuers, Knight Frank and CBRE.
More information on this of its investment decisions, results and can be found on page 80.
Furthermore, the external auditor challenges remuneration.
the valuations as part of their audit procedures and report their findings to the Committee.
Increased risk is encountered through property The Committee reviews management papers on key judgements and Accounting for and financing transactions, as large and for significant transactions as well as the external auditors report transactions non-standard accounting entries can be required.
presented following their detailed review of accounting entries.
Risks to the Companys ongoing solvency and The Committee considers the financing requirements of the Group in the Going concern liquidity and the appropriateness of preparing context of available committed facilities and the diversity and longevity of the Group financial statements for the half year existing debt.
In addition a paper is provided to the Committee covering and the full year on a going concern basis.
customer concentration, financing options and covenant headroom.
The Committee evaluates managements assessment of going concern and the assumptions made.
The external auditor shares their review of these papers and their assumptions with the Committee.
Maintenance of the Groups REIT status through The Committee reviews compliance with the REIT tests annually.
REIT status compliance with certain conditions has a Management present the methodology and results of the REIT tests, significant impact on the Groups results.
highlighting any change in long term trends and the current level of headroom.
Statutory audit market reform Mindful of the activity at European and UK level in this area, the Non-audit services and Committee reviewed the Companys policy on non-audit fees and fees, and audit tender formalised a policy on audit tender frequency see page 79. frequency Changes to the Companys finance reporting The Committee had regular updates on the project, which reached a Finance systems and forecasting systems were proposed and successful conclusion in time for the March 2015 year end.
transformation implemented during the year to improve efficiency and transparency, strengthen controls, reduce the time taken to produce consolidations and increase the capacity for analysis.
Accounting for and disclosure of the Groups The Committee has reviewed managements papers on the treatment Joint ventures and funds interests in joint ventures and funds in of the joint ventures and funds under the new standards.
This was also and the impact of new accordance with IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 which an area of focus for the external auditors with whom it was discussed.
accounting standards became effective in the current year.
For certain transactions, judgement is applied The Committee and the external auditor considered the appropriateness Judgements affecting by management as to whether, and to what of the accounting treatment applied by management for each revenue recognition extent, they should form part of revenue for transaction to ensure it was consistent with similar transactions this the financial year.
The Committee also considered the scope of the accounting standard and the degree of the judgement made.
Identification and evaluation of commercial risks and effectiveness of internal controls is prepared by Internal Audit related control objectives for presentation to the Audit Committee as well as a fraud risk The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness assessment.
Internal Audit and the Risk Committee work closely of sound risk management and internal control systems C. 2.1.
It together to ensure that identified risk areas inform the Internal Audit fulfils this role by monitoring the activities of the Risk Committee, the programme and similarly, findings of Internal Audit reviews are risk management processes in place and the activities of the Internal taken into account in identifying and evaluating risks within the Audit function, including its reporting on the effectiveness of controls.
British Land maintains a framework of controls related to key financial processes and management of the associated risks.
Risk Committee see page 70 The effectiveness of such controls is reviewed by Internal Audit annually, either through dedicated procedures or in the course Managing risk in delivering our strategy see pages 56 to 57 of other Internal Audit reviews.
Principal risks see pages 58 to 61 The Risk Committee minutes are circulated to the Audit Committee for review, with any significant matters highlighted for Audit Committee discussion.
Twice yearly the principal risks, which are derived from an assessment of the risk register, are presented to the Audit Committee, along with commentary on how the exposure to Tim Score these risks has moved in the period.
Annually, a report on the Chairman of the Audit Committee British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81
