Governance and remuneration REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee leads the process for Board appointments Changes to the Board and its Committees During the year the Nomination Committee has spent significant time discussing and recommending changes to the Board and its Committees outside of formal meetings, including consulting other Board members and working with The Zygos Partnership Zygos, an external search agency.
On 10 December 2014 Dido Harding stood down as a Non-Executive Director of British Land, following her appointment as a non-executive director on the Court of the Bank of England.
Dido was a member of the Nomination Committee before standing down and William Jackson was appointed as a member of the Committee following Didos resignation in compliance with the Code B.
The Nomination Committee identified the need to appoint new Non-Executive Directors to broaden the Boards collective experience and add a fresh perspective to boardroom discussions regarding the Companys strategy, position and prospects.
John Gildersleeve Chairman of the Nomination Committee Following a rigorous selection process, detailed on page 83, Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery were appointed as Non-Executive Directors of British Land on 20 March and 13 May 2015 respectively.
Directors attendance during the year ended Lynns biography details her strong business and academic 31 March 2015 experience and Lauras biography demonstrates her huge retail and consumer experience.
John Gildersleeve 2 2 1 Dido Harding 0 0 Board of Directors biographies see pages 66 to 67 1 William Jackson 1 2 Lord Turnbull 2 2 Throughout the year the membership of each Committee has comprised independent Non-Executive Directors to the extent 1 Dido Harding resigned on 10 December 2014.
William Jackson was appointed required by the Code.
Composition of the Board The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide Composition of the Board strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman 8% Directors, and the Boards collective experience covers a range Independent Non-Executive Directors 59% of relevant sectors, as illustrated on page 65.
As well as a breadth Executive Director s 33% of property and financial experience, the Board members have personal experience of working in the retail and corporate environments that are typical of many of our occupiers.
Board evaluation see page 74 Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery will stand for election and all of British Lands other Directors will retire and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee believes that all the Directors continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as Board and Committee members, continue to discharge their duties effectively and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
82 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 British Land pays full regard to the benefits of diversity.
Appointment of Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery Our view on diversity as Non-Executive Directors British Land pays full regard to the benefits of diversity, including During the year, and following the resignation of Dido Harding, the gender diversity, both when the Nomination Committee is searching Nomination Committee identified the need to review the composition for candidates for Board appointments and when the Company is of the Board and undertook a comprehensive search process against searching for candidates for other appointments.
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Board agrees with the conclusions of the Women on boards report by Lord Davies of Abersoch that greater efforts should be The Nomination Committee was chaired by John Gildersleeve, made in improving the gender balance of corporate boards and Chairman of the Company, during the selection process.
that quotas for female board representation are not the preferred 1 Zygos, an external search agency, was engaged by the Committee approach.
The Company currently has three female directors: to assist with the selection process.
The role of Zygos included: Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery, who were appointed as preparing a detailed role specification, incorporating the expected Non-Executive Directors this year, and Lucinda Bell, who was time commitment and duties to be performed as a Non-Executive appointed Chief Financial Officer in May 2011.
This currently Director of the Company represents 25% female Board membership, up from 18% searching for and benchmarking candidates for the role: and at year end.
producing detailed profiles of the candidates, to be considered by the Committee.
The promotion of women to the Board and other senior During the Committees search, candidates from a range of positions within the Company is dependent on the recruitment, business backgrounds were considered, including both male development and retention of women in the workforce, both and female candidates.
within the Company and more widely throughout the business The Committee consulted with British Lands advisors throughout and professional community.
the process and took detailed references.
Following this rigorous selection process, the Nomination 2,3 2 Committee recommended that Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery Board of Directors Senior management be appointed to the Board.
The Board accepted the recommendation, and Lynn and Laura were duly appointed on 20 March and 13 May 18% 2015 respectively.
37% Board of Directors Biographies see pages 66 to 67 63% 82% 2 Employees 48% 52% Male Female 1 2 The Z ygos Partnership has been engaged by the Company in a search consultancy As at 31 March 2015.
3 capacity in the past: it does not provide any other services for the Company B.
Since the year end we have appointed another female Non-Executive Director bringing the figure to 25%.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Governance and remuneration REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Principal responsibilities of the Committee Key areas formally discussed and reviewed by the Committee during 2015 Regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Review of the structure, size, composition of the Board, along with the skills, knowledge and experience of its members to ensure that Directors remain able to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively and to the required high standard.
Recommendations to the Board with regard to Board changes and Selection and appointment of Lynn Gladden and Laura WadeBoard-level Committee membership changes.
Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Succession planning, including identification of potential internal candidates for senior vacancies which may arise on a crisis, short, medium or long term basis.
Identifying suitable candidates for Board vacancies, to be nominated Selection and appointment of Lynn Gladden and Laura Wadefor Board approval.
Reviewing the leadership needs of the Company.
The Strategy Days see page 74 Reviewing time commitments required from Non-Executive Time commitments required from Non-Executive Directors Directors.
were reviewed as part of the year-end process.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and Recommendations to the Board regarding Directors retiring recommendations for re-election.
for re-election by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Recommendation to the Board for the renewal of the letter of appointment of Lord Turnbull.
The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
84 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Developing people at British Land Our recruitment practices have long included a commitment to The Board recognises the importance of developing people at British diversity and gender equality, and will continue to do so throughout Land, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior the Company.
As of 31 March 2015, British Lands employees positions within the Company.
People development was a core topic including Broadgate Estates comprised 235 females and 253 discussed at the Boards Strategy Days in February 2015, as well as males: of the employees considered to be executives, 120 are being considered by the Nomination Committee.
Having expert female and 207 are male.
Senior executives, comprising the people is one of the four core focus areas of our business model.
Executive Committee and Operations Committee, consisted of 8 females and 17 males.
The headcount at 31 March 2015 was 488.
The Strategy Day see page 74 To encourage and help mothers return to work, we offer enhanced maternity leave payments and support flexible working patterns: We empower our people to make the most of their potential with us currently 39 of our female employees take advantage of this facility.
by encouraging all our employees to create a Personal Development We also offer enhanced paternity leave payments and support Plan.
This is supported by regular discussions with their manager flexible working patterns for all parents and other employees whose and training needs are formally assessed as part of the appraisal personal circumstances may make this beneficial.
All new staff members are provided with a formal induction work flexibly and 15 men took advantage of enhanced paternity leave programme which includes presentations from senior business during 2015.
Training and mentoring programmes are provided to leaders on the key business strategies and values of British Land ensure that all our employees achieve their potential, taking account and finishes with an informal lunch with our Chief Executive.
The of their diverse development needs.
It is pleasing that our Chief induction includes an introduction to our approach to sustainability.
Financial Officer, Lucinda Bell, was an internal appointment, We are partnered with an award winning provider of training reflecting the development of our own people.
solutions, and provide access to a full range of point of need online solutions to suit preferred learning styles.
The Nomination Committee seeks to increase the percentage of female Board members as quickly as we are able.
The speed This year we introduced a successful series of leadership workshops at which we can achieve this will be subject to the availability of specifically aimed at helping our managers set the standard for suitable candidates and compliance with the requirements of the their teams and promoting a development culture through effective Equality Act: the Board has a fundamental obligation to ensure that delegation and feedback.
We also introduced a Leadership in Real appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success Estate programme from the University of Cambridge for high of the Company and we do not consider that it would be to the potential staff, and our Executive Committee is working with a long term benefit of the Company if appointments were made on leadership coach from Henley Business School.
Subject to these requirements, we have an ongoing commitment to further strengthening female representation at Board and top management level.
The policy throughout British Land is to employ the best candidates available in every position regardless of sex, race ethnic origin, John Gildersleeve nationality, colour, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual Chairman of the Nomination Committee orientation, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicants concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
The policy provides that the training, career development and promotion of disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
British Land looks at diversity in its broadest sense.
As well as focusing on gender, we are also committed to LGBT diversity, as demonstrated by our recent partnership with Stonewall.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85
