Directors Remuneration Report Introduction by Fiona Laird, the Chairman Committees major decisions during the EPS in excess of RPI 60% weighting of the Remuneration Committee period were taken: and relative TSR against a peer group of retailers 40% weighting.
In 2015 Angela Dear Shareholder, The directors remuneration policy Spindler will again receive an award which was approved by shareholders I am pleased to present the Directors with a face value of 150% of salary.
The at the 2014 AGM and is included for Remuneration Report for 2014 15 on award will be granted in July 2015 and information in this years report: and behalf of the Board and to summarise the will be again subject to EPS and relative remuneration committees main activities TSR performance conditions with the An Annual Report on Remuneration during the year.
same weighting as the 2014 awards.
which provides shareholders with The committee has also reviewed details of the remuneration that was During the year the groups strategy the TSR comparator group to ensure actually delivered to the companys of comprehensive modernisation and that it is appropriate for the awards in directors during 2014 15.
This final the move towards digital first has been 2015.
Details of the comparator group part of the report will be subject to an accelerated.
This, together with weak are provided in the Annual Report on advisory vote at the forthcoming annual Autumn sales across the sector has Remuneration.
resulted in a year of mixed performance against KPIs.
As a result, no bonus will be Dean Moore stepped down as Finance Annual bonus is paid 60% in cash and paid this year.
Director at the end of April 2015.
In 40% deferred as a conditional award of The remuneration committee now consists accordance with the Remuneration Policy, shares payable at the end of 3 years after entirely of independent non-executive Dean has been paid the balance of his the award.
I am current chairman and the notice period.
Payments are phased over metric for the normal annual bonus was current members are Ron McMillan, and the remaining 9 months of his contractual based on group profit.
notice period and are subject to an determined that this element of the annual obligation to mitigate.
Craig Lovelace bonus targets had not been met.
The The remuneration committee met on three joined the company as Chief Financial remainder of the normal annual bonus occasions during the year.
Details of his was based on meeting corporate and attendance was as follows: package are set out in the Remuneration personal objectives.
Again, the committee Report below.
determined that these were not met and Attendance therefore no bonus was awarded to Dean I will be available to answer any questions Fiona Laird Chairman 3 or Angela.
at the annual general meeting in July Ron McMillan 3 and very much hope that you will support The committee reviewed the TSR Simon Patterson 3 the Directors Remuneration Report and performance of the company in respect of Annual Report on Remuneration at our the 2012 Long Term Incentive Share Plan John McGuire 0 forthcoming meeting.
The company was ranked retired 1 April 2014 below median against its peers at the end I would like to thank all of my colleagues Anna Ford 2 of the three year performance period, as a on the remuneration committee for all retired 22 July 2014 result of which the award lapsed.
their hard work in implementing the new reporting requirements of the Directors The committee reviewed the salaries of The remuneration committee reviews, Remuneration Report and generally with the executive directors in April 2015 and formulates and determines the reward and the day to day tasks of the committee over determined that these should be increased remuneration package of each executive the last year.
by 2%, in-line with most of the general director and other senior employees of the workforce.
The review date for salaries Fiona Laird company including the Home Shopping has been changed to October, bringing it board.
It also considers how the company into line with the majority of retailers.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee is applying the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The weighting of performance measures Remuneration policy in respect of directors remuneration.
We used in the annual bonus has been This report sets out the information have created a remuneration framework reviewed and amended to reflect the required by Part 4 of the Schedule that rewards both long and short-term revised strategic priorities of the group, 8 to The Large and Medium-sized performance as we believe this is in the with an increased weighting on corporate Companies and Groups Accounts and best interests of all of our shareholders.
measures and a reduced weighting Reports Amendment Regulations on personal performance.
Subject to This reports sets out the remuneration of 2008, as amended.
The report also commercial confidentiality, performance the Companys directors for the year and satisfies the relevant requirements of the against these targets is set out in this report.
is separated into the following parts: Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the board This Annual Statement which identifies Awards with a face value of 150% of salary the key messages on remuneration were granted to both Angela Spindler and has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors for the year under review and explains Dean Moore in July 2014.
Vesting of these the business context in which the awards is subject to growth in adjusted remuneration in the Code.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33
