DIRECTORS REPORT Whilst the Board, together with a number of institutional investors, does not consider length of service alone to be an accurate guide to a Directors independence, in view of Stuarts tenure it has specically considered his independence.
As part of its review, the Board noted that Stuart had no relationships with management that might compromise his independence and that he had demonstrated commitment and diligence in carrying out his duties during the year.
Given these factors, together with the robust challenge that he consistently presented to the executives and the manner with which he exercised his judgement, the Board was satisfied that Stuart maintained an independent state of mind.
However, despite this conclusion, in the interest of good governance, Stuart has stepped down from his positions as the Groups Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 31 December 2015.
In both of these roles he has been replaced by Simon Fraser.
The Groups Nominations Committee continues to monitor thecomposition, independence and balance of the Board TIMOTHY KITE to ensure that the non-executive Directors are able to COMPANY SECRETARY constructively test the views of the executive Directors.
A key element of this monitoring process relates to the diversity The Directors present their annual report and auditednancial of the Board having due regard to the requirements of the UK statements for the year ended 31December 2015.
Corporate Governance Code and the requests made by Lord Davies of Abersoch through the Department for Business, A review of the development of the Groups business during Innovation & Skills.
Whilst the Board does not consider quotas the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group to be an appropriate determinant of its composition, it notes Lord and its future prospects is included in the Strategic Report Davies original 25% target for womens representation on boards earlier in this report.
and the progress made towards this as set out in the Women The Board on Boards Five year summary paper published in October At the end of the year the Board consisted of: 2015.
The Boards policy in this regard is to avoid positive discrimination and continue to make appointments based purely Seven non-executive Directors: on merit with the aim of ensuring that the Board has the correct Robert Rayne Chairman balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge 1 of the Group to meet the requirements of the business.
Stuart Corbyn Stephen Young The appointments of Claudia Arney and Cilla Snowball during Simon Fraser Senior Independent Director 2015 met last years aim of the Nomination Committee to recruit an additional female director but, more importantly, Richard Dakin the skills and experience that they bring to the Board enhance Claudia Arney its diversity on a much broader basis.
Cilla Snowball The Board currently includes two females 15% and the Six executive Directors: gender mix throughout the Group is illustrated in the diagrams John Burns Chief Executive officer on page 70.
Simon Silver Taking all factors into account the Directors believe that the Damian Wisniewski Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Nigel George knowledge and independence to deliver the Groups strategy Paul Williams and to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
David Silverman The Nominations Committee also considers the Groups 1 Stuart Corbyn was the Groups Senior Independent Director until succession planning on a regular basis to ensure that changes 31 December 2015. to the Board are properly planned and co-ordinated and that, in the event of unforeseen circumstances, the Group would be As noted in the Chairmans letter on Corporate Governance able to continue to deliver its long-term strategy.
above, Stuart Corbyn is not deemed independent under the criteria set out in provision B.
1.1. of the Code having served The development of the executive management team below on the Board for more than nine years.
the Board is also monitored to ensure that there is an appropriate and diverse supply of senior executives and potential future Board members.
86 Governance Responsibilities The Committee is responsible for establishing the Groups The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for ensuring that adequate resources are available tomeet its for the executive Directors and selected senior executives.
objectives and for reviewing management performance.
A formal Therewere four meetings of the Committee in 2015 and list of matters reserved for the Board is maintained which the report ofits activities is set out on pages 96 to 112. includes decisions relating to strategy and management, Nominations Committee structure and capital, internal control and corporate governance, Membership and attendance: major contracts, certain external communications and Board membership.
The list is reviewed periodically.
Stuart Corbyn Chairman until Dec 2015 June fide Moller until Dec 2015 The full Board met six times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2016.
Extra meetings will bearranged if Simon Fraser Chairman from Jan 2016 necessary.
The Executive Committee, which consists of the Richard Dakin executive Directors plus four of the Groups senior managers, Cilla Snowball from Sept 2015 met 11 times throughout the year.
Both bodies are provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that they The Committees responsibilities include identifying external are fully briefed on matters to bediscussed at these meetings.
candidates for appointment as Directors and, subsequently, recommending their appointment to the Board.
If requested, Directors attendance at Board and Executive Committee the Committee will make a recommendation concerning meetings during the year was as follows: anappointment to the Board from within the Group.
Executive The Committee met twice during 2015 and the report Full Board Committee of the Nominations Committee is on page 113.
Number of meetings 6 11 Risk Committee Executive Membership and attendance: John Burns 6 11 Simon Silver 6 11 Richard Dakin Chairman Damian Wisniewski 6 11 June fide Moller until Dec 2015 Paul Williams 6 11 Stephen Young Nigel George 6 11 John Burns David Silverman 6 11 Damian Wisniewski Non-executive Cilla Snowball from Jan 2016 Robert Rayne 6 Stuart Corbyn 6 The Committees main responsibility is to review the effectiveness Richard Dakin 6 of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
June fide Moller 5 Itmet three times during the year andtheCommittees report is on page 114.
Robert Farnes until 30 June 2015 2 Simon Fraser 6 Audit Committee Stephen Young 6 Membership and attendance: Claudia Arney from 18 May 2015 4 Stephen Young Chairman Cilla Snowball from 1 Sept 2015 2 Stuart Corbyn A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, Richard Dakin sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Simon Fraser who is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Claudia Arney from Jan 2016 Chief Executive officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting Board Committees tothe Board on, the Groups financial reporting and for The Board maintains a number of Board Committees.
The maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Auditor.
The Committee met four times during 2015 and Groups website www.
Set out below thereport of the Audit Committee is on pages 116 and 117. aredetails of the membership and duties of the four principal attended committees that operated throughout 2015.
0 not attended Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance: Simon Fraser Chairman Stuart Corbyn June fide Moller until Dec 2015 0 Stephen Young Claudia Arney from May 2015 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 87 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Performance evaluation The articles provide that, at every AGM of the Company, The Company again used Lintstock, an independent third anyDirector who has been appointed by the Board since the party, to facilitate theannual review of the effectiveness of the lastAGM, or who held ofce at the time of the two preceding Board and its Committees required by Code provision B.
AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has heldofce with the Company, other than employment or As a result of last years review, measures were taken during executive ofce, for a continuous period of nine years or 2015 to make the Groups board papers more focused.
moreat the date of the meeting, shall retire from ofce and This has enabled the Directors to identify and address the mayoffer himself for re-appointment by the members.
However, in accordance with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code The responses also showed that the work undertaken by theCompany subjects all Directors to annual re-election the Risk Committee on the Groups risk management process andtherefore at the next AGM all the Directors will retire and, had improved performance in this area.
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies ofall the Directors are given on pages 80 and 81.
This years review took the form of a condential, online survey whichwas completed by all the Directors and the Company The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Secretary.
The survey covered the processes and performance before the expiration of his period of ofce.
The ofce of a of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman.
In view of Director shall be vacated if: the new Directors who joined the Board during the year, he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves to particular focus was given to the Groups induction process.
accept such offer: his resignation is requested by all of the The performance of individual Directors was assessed by the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less Remuneration Committee as part of the salary review process.
thanthree in number: The facilitator consolidated the responses and prepared he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health reports for the Chairman as well as the chairmen of the and the Board resolves that his ofce be vacated: relevantCommittees.
he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director As a result of this evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and structure, balance of skills and operation of the Board continues the Board resolves that his ofce is vacated: tobe satisfactory and appropriate for the Group.
he becomes bankrupt or enters into an agreement with In addition, the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive hiscreditors: Directors, whom are standing for re-election at the Annual he is prohibited by a law from being a Director: General Meeting AGM, continue to be effective and show he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: a high level of commitment to their roles.
Informing this or assessment, the Chairman paid particular attention to those he is removed from ofce pursuant to the Companys articles.
Directors that had served on the Board formore than six years.
The Company provides new Directors with a comprehensive The performance of the Chairman was assessed by the induction process which includes visiting a number of the non-executive Directors under the leadership of the Senior Groups properties with senior management, meetings with Independent Director using the responses to that section the Groups audit partner and corporate lawyer together ofthesurvey.
with meetings with members of the management team.
Appointment and replacement of Directors If considered appropriate, new Directors are provided The Board shall consist of not less than two Directors and with external training that addresses their role and duties notmore than 15.
Shareholders may vary the minimum and asadirector of a quoted public company.
Existing Directors ormaximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary monitor their own continued professional development and resolution.
Other than as required by the shareholding areencouraged to attend courses that keep their market guideline monitored by the Remuneration Committee, andregulatory knowledge up-to-date.
In addition, any training aDirector shall not be required to hold any shares in the and development requirements are discussed during the Company.
Directors may be appointed by the Company one-to-one meetings between the Chairman and the Directors.
byordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed bytheBoard holds ofce only until the Companys next AGM All Directors have access to the services of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Board orany Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure Committee authorised by the Board may from time to time whereby independent professional advice may be sought appoint one or more Directors to hold an employment atthe Companys expense.
Directors and ofcers liability orexecutive ofce for such period and on such terms as insurance is maintained by the Company.
theymay determine and may also revoke or terminate any suchappointment.
Appointment of a Director from outside the Group is on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the Nominations Committee.
88 Governance Powers of the Directors Conflicts of interest Subject to the Companys articles, the Companies Act and The Companys articles permit the Directors to regulate anydirections given by the Company by special resolution, conicts of interest.
The Board operates a policy for managing thebusiness of the Company will be managed by the Board and, where appropriate, approving conicts or potential who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether conicts of interest whereby Directors are required to notify the relating to the management of the business of the Company Company as soon as they become aware of a situation that ornot.
Inparticular, the Board may exercise all the powers of could give rise to a conict or potential conict of interest.
the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, The register of potential conicts of interest is regularly reviewed tomortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, by the Risk Committee and the Board is satisfied that this assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue policy has operated effectively throughout the period.
debentures and other securities and to give security for any Communication with shareholders debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Company recognises the importance of clear Directors communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with The Directors of the Company during the year and their institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, interests in the share capital of the Company, including principally by the executive Directors, through presentations and deferred shares and shares over which options have been visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board receives regular granted under the performance share plan, are shown reports of these meetings which include a summary of any below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
significant issues raised by the shareholders.
com, which includes the There have been no changes in any of the Directors interests presentations made to analysts at the time of the Groups interim between the year end and 25 February 2016. and full yearresults, together with the social media channels that During the year, a conditional grant of 157,505 shares was theGroup uses, provide additional sources of information for made to Directors under the Performance Share Plan PSP shareholders.
Websites for specic developments are used whilst 115,463 shares vested to the Directors froman earlier tohelp explain the Groups current activities to shareholders in conditional award at a zero exercise price.
The Annual Report, which is available to all 115,462shares of this award made to Directorslapsed.
The Directors do not participate in the Executive Share The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question Option Scheme.
the Directors and, in particular, the Chairman of each of the Board Committees.
An alternative channel of communication Other than as disclosed in note 36 the Directors have no to the Board is available to shareholders through the Senior interest in any material contracts of the Company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 89 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk management and internal control The Board was able to assess the effectiveness of the The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2016 controlsthrough the close day-to-day involvement of the together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out executive Directors in the operation of many of the controls on pages 72 to 77.
The Board has carried out a robust andthe various reports that the Board receives which enable assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including any significant control failure to be identied.
those that would threaten its business model, future This review did not reveal any significant weaknesses in the performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of the price, credit, Groups system of controls.
liquidity and cash ow risks that are inherent in the Groups business are given in note 23 on pages 148 to 155.
The key The Board has considered the need for an internal audit elements of the Groups internal control framework which is function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary designed to manage and control the Groups risks are: giventhe size and complexity of the Group.
an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision Report and accounts by the Board and the Executive Committee supported The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts by dened responsibilities andlevels of authority: and, taking into account the recommendation of the Audit Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors in balanced and understandable and provides the information allaspects ofthe Groups business: necessary for the shareholders to assess the Companys a comprehensive system of financial reporting and position and performance, business model and strategy.
forecasting including both sensitivity and variance analysis: maintenance, updating and regular review by the Risk Share capital Committee of the Groups Risk Register which forms part As at February 2016, the Companys issued share capital of the risk management process: and comprised asingle class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the a formal Whistleblowing Policy which includes access to ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can an external help line.
be found in note 26 to the financial statements.
The effectiveness of this system and the operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed for the accounting year and the period to the date of approval ofthenancial statements.
Derwent London shares held by the Group At 31 December 2015 the Group held 44,803 Derwent London shares in order to deliver the deferred bonus shares to the Directors and other senior executives when the deferral periods expire.
Movements on the holding of these shares are detailed below: Percentage of Number of 5p issued share Aggregate ordinary capital Price consideration Transaction shares % Holding at 1 January 2014 33,436 0.033 494,680 Disposal on 2 April 2014 24,275 0.024 27.34 663,678 Acquired on 7 April 2014 29,062 0.028 27.34 794,555 Maximum holding during 2014 and holding as at 31 December 2014 38,223 0.037 625,557 Disposal on 26 March 2015 23,693 0.021 34.65 820,962 Acquired on 26 March 2015 30,273 0.027 34.65 1,048,959 Maximum holding during 2015 and holding as at 31 December 2015 44,803 0.043 853,554 90 Governance Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Restrictions on voting The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by bedecided either by an ordinary resolution passed by the membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he has shareholders or by the Directors as long as there is no conict not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
These rights atthe time of the meeting, or if he has been served with a and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if they were restriction notice as dened in the articles after failure to set out in the articles.
Subject to the articles, the Companies provide the Company with information concerning interests Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the inthose shares required to be provided under the disposal of the Board.
Variation of rights The Company is not aware of any agreements between If the Companies Act allows this, the rights attached to any shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
class of shares can be changed if it is approved either in Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company writing by shareholders holding at least three-quarters of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the issued shares of that class by amount excluding any shares Company, except: ofthat class held as treasury shares or by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed class of shares.
This is called a class meeting.
by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct All the articles relating to general meetings will apply to Authority whereby certain employees of the Company any such class meeting, with any necessary changes.
require the approval of the Company to deal in the The following changes will also apply: Companys ordinary shares.
A quorum will be present if at least two shareholders who are The Company is not aware of any agreements between entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy who own shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer atleast one-third in amount of the issued shares of the class ofsecurities.
excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
Any shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying entitled to vote can demand a poll.
back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the 2015 AGM to allot At an adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and relevant securities up to a nominal amount of1,844,402.
who holds shares of the class, or his proxy, will be a quorum.
That authority will apply until the conclusion ofthisyears AGM.
The provisions of this article will apply to any change of rights At this years AGM shareholders will be askedto grant an of shares forming part of a class.
Each part of the class which authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount is being treated differently is treated as a separate class in of 1,852,868 and ii up to a nominal amount of 3,705,736 applying this article.
after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, the section 551 authority, such section 551 authority to apply unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to until the end of next years AGM.
those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in No person holds securities in the Company carrying special connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal rights with regard to control of the Company.
A further special resolution will be Voting proposed to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be whether on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the limited to a maximum of 11,117,210 ordinary shares and the Companies Act.
Where a proxy is given discretion as to how resolution sets the minimum and maximum prices which tovote on a show of hands this will be treated as an instruction maybe paid.
by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way in which the Substantial shareholders proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any In addition to those of the Directors disclosed on page 89, special rights or restrictions as to voting which are given to any theCompany has been notied of the following interests in shares or upon which any shares may be held at the relevant theissued ordinary share capital as at 25 February 2016. time and to the articles.
If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, Percentage Number of issued the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose of shares share capital name is listed first on the register for the share.
Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd 6,906,835 6.21 Norges Bank 5,547,762 4.99 Invesco Inc 5,242,406 4.72 Standard Life Investments 4,284,390 3.85 Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.23 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 91 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Significant agreements Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 34 of the There are no agreements between the Company and its financial statements.
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss ofofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover Going concern bid, except that, under the rules of the Groups share-based Under Provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, remuneration schemes some awards may vest following the Board is required to report whether the business is a going achange of control.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years in particular the cash ows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the Company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the The risks included on the Groups Risk Register that could impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next company, a substantial shareholder, unless the Company 12months.
hastaken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
The Companys articles give the Directors power to The Groups risks and risk management processes are set out takesuch steps, including the power: on pages 72 to 77 where the key risks in the Groups Risk Register that could be a threat to the Groups business model to identify a substantial shareholder: and capital adequacy together with the Groups Viability to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial Statement are also presented.
shareholder: and to require the disposal of shares forming part of Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that a .
the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual in operational existence until at least 25 February 2017. orother arrangement which is essential to the business of Therefore, the Board continues to adopt thegoing concern theCompany.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Amendment of articles of association Disclosure of information to auditors Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this theCompany, the Companys articles may be amended by Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, aspecial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all the Fixed assets steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make The Groups freehold and leasehold investment properties themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
were professionally revalued at 31 December 2015, resulting ina surplus of 672.2m, before accounting adjustments of Auditors 20.8m.
The freehold and leasehold properties areincluded  LLP, which was appointed in 2014 in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of4,832m.
following a competitive tender process, has expressed its Further details are given in note 16 of the nancialstatements.
willingness tocontinue in ofce as the Groups auditor and accordingly, resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at theAGM.
These are resolutions 17 and 18 set out in the noticeof meeting.
Additional information For the purposes of Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section in LR 9.8.
4 R Topic Location in the annual report and accounts 1 Interest capitalised Note 7 Page 134 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a 3 Requirement subsequently deleted from the listing rules 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Page 108 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash n a 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings n a 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a 10 Contracts of significance Page 92 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends n a 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends n a 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a 92 Governance Our carbon footprint We have seen reductions in our corporate carbon generation 2 We present below our annual GHG greenhouse gas by 1.38% and overall CO e m intensity reduction of 11%.
2 emissions footprint for 2015 compared to our 2014 footprint.
For further analysis and detail on our GHG emissions please We also include a set of intensity ratios appropriate for see our Annual Sustainability Report, which can be found at our business, both of which full the requirements of the www.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Total managed portfolio including corporate based emissions Whole year Q1-4 Years % change 2015 2014 to 2015 2014 Scope 1 Energy-use Gas total building 2,700 17.6 2,295 Oil total building 48 38.7 78 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for business travel 11 40.4 19 Fugitive Refrigerant emissions 427 44.9 774 emissions Scope 2 Energy-use Electricity use generation landlord-controlled areas and 5,406 2.2 5,527 Derwent London occupied floor area Scope 3 Energy-use Electricity use WTT Generated Scope 3 Indirect GHG 806 4.3 842 landlord-controlled areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Electricity use T&D Direct & WTT T&D Indirect landlord-controlled 513 7.9 557 areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Gas total building 363 17.9 308 Oil total building 10 38.3 16 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for business travel WTT 2 41.3 4 Business air travel WTT 3 46.0 5 Business air travel 23 43.7 41 Water Water use total building 55 19.4 46 Total All All 10,367 1.38 10,512 Landlord only Out of scope Energy-use Biomass use total building 31 18.8 26 Tenant emissions Scope 1 2 3 15,562 8.7 14,316 Intensity tCO e m turnover Scopes 1 and 2 only, including Scope 1 fugitive emissions 56.53 10.0 62.81 2 2 Intensity tCO e m including Scope 1 fugitive emissions 0.025 11.0 0.028 2 Data notes Reporting period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Baseline year 2014 Boundary consolidation approach Operational control Alignment with financial reporting The only variation is that the GHG emission data presented does not account for single-let properties or properties for which we do not have management control.
This is because we have no control or influence over the utility consumption in these buildings.
However, the rental income of these properties is included in our consolidated financial statements.
The percentage movements are calculated using the figures before rounding.
Reporting method The Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions factor source DEFRA, 2015 www.
Independent assurance Public limited assurance using ISAE 3000 provided by Deloitte LLP over all Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions data.
Data changes and restatements No data changes or restatements in 2014.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 93 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Annual General Meeting The authority will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders or, if earlier, the close of business on 13 August 2017. that accompanies the report and accounts includes four Resolution 21 is a special resolution to renewthe authority resolutions to be considered as special business.
enabling the Company to purchase its ownshares.
This Resolution 19 is an ordinary resolution to renew the authority of authority enables the Directors to act quickly, if, having taken the Directors under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to account of all major factors such as the effect onearnings allot shares.
Paragraph A of the resolution gives the Directors andnet asset value per share, gearing levels andalternative authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal investment opportunities, such purchases areconsidered to amount of 1,852,868 which represents about one-third of the be in the Companys and shareholders bestinterest while issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the maintaining an efficient capital structure.
Thespecial resolution Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the gives the Directors authority topurchase upto 10% of the publication of this document.
Companys ordinary shares and species themaximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The authority In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, the paragraph B of the resolution gives the Directors authority to close ofbusiness on 13 August 2017. allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of The Companies Act 2006 permits the Company to hold any 3,705,736, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares such repurchased shares in treasury, with a view to possible issued under paragraph A of the resolution.
This amount re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Company purchases any of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares its shares pursuant to resolution 21, the Company may cancel ofthe Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be publication of this document.
made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
Asatthe The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares dateof the notice of meeting, the Company held noshares except on the exercise of options under the Companys share intreasury.
option scheme, on the vesting of shares under the Companys performance share plan or in connection with the scrip The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares dividend scheme.
The authority will expire at the conclusion outstanding at 25 February 2016 was 893,190 which ofnext years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on represented 0.8% of the issued share capital excluding 13August 2017. treasury shares at that date.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this Resolution 20 is a special resolution to renew the Directors resolution, the options outstanding at 25 February 2016 authority under Sections 571 and 573 of the Companies Act wouldrepresent 1.0% of the issued share capital excluding 2006.
The resolution empowers the Directors to allot shares or treasury shares.
sell treasury shares forcash in connection with pre-emptive offers and the scrip dividend scheme where the scrip election Resolution 22 is required to reect the implementation of the is made after thedeclaration but before payment of a final Shareholder Rights Directive which, in the absence of a special dividend with modications to the requirements set out in resolution to the contrary, increased the notice period for Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution further general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company empowers the Directors to allot or, in the case of treasury iscurrently able to call general meetings other than an AGM shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
basis, up to an aggregate nominal value of 555,860 which is The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital as routine, but only where the exibility is merited by the business at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage of the document provided that, unless the proceeds of such shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until allotment or sale are to be applied in connection with an theCompanys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar acquisition or specified capital investment, this authority is resolution will be proposed.
limited to 5% of the issued share capital.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding TIMOTHY J. KITE ACA cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year COMPANY SECRETARY period, which provide that usage in excess of 7.5% 25 FEBRUARY 2016 excludingin connection with an acquisition or specified capitalinvestment should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B ofresolution 19 would be limited to allotments by way of arights issue subject to the right of the Board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
