REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership Considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies, Throughout 2015, the Committee consisted of Stuart Corbyn, assumptions, judgements and estimates used in the Simon Fraser and Richard Dakin under the chairmanship of preparation of the financial statements.
Claudia Arney joined the Committee in January In discharging this responsibility, the Committee identied the 2016.
All committee members are considered independent by following significant issues and carried out the procedures the Board, having no day-to-day involvement with the Company set out below: and, with the exception of Stuart Corbyn, not having been with Valuation of the Groups property portfolio the Company for more than nine years.
The Boards position The Committee considers this to be the major area of regarding Stuart is discussed on page 85.
Due to his position judgement in determining the accuracy of the financial as Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited, a wholly statements.
In view of this, meetings were held with the owned subsidiary of CBRE Limited, Richard Dakin does not Groups external valuers before both the interim results take part in the Committees considerations regarding the and the final results to consider the portfolio valuation valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
These meetings were led by members Stephen Young is a qualied accountant and is considered of the Committee with relevant and current expertise in to have appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
Key matters discussed during the The Committee has access to further financial expertise, meetings include the assumptions underlying the at the Companys expense, if required.
valuation, any valuation which required a greater level of judgement than normal, for example development Roles and responsibilities properties, and any valuation movements that were The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the not broadly in line with that of the IPD benchmark.
The assumptions were also discussed with the auditors Meetings who have their own valuation experts and carry out their The Committee met four times during the year to discharge its own independent tests.
These were attended by the Groups external These procedures enabled the Committee to be satisfied auditor and members of the Groups senior management when with the assumptions and judgements used in the invited.
Two additional meetings are held each year with the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
Groups independent property valuers CBRE to consider the Revenue recognition valuation of the property portfolio.
Review recognition is a presumed significant risk under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and Work of the Committee the Committee identied that the recognition of profit During the year, the Committee has carried out the following: arising from a transaction where profit is conditional on Reviewed the Groups annual report and accounts to future performance could represent a transaction with consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, elevated risk.
The Committee sought explanations from balancedand understandable and whether they provided management for both the treatment and assumptions the information necessary for shareholders to assess the adopted and was satisfied with the answers given.
The Companys position and performance, business model Committee also discussed these with the auditor who and strategy and advised the Board accordingly.
In carrying out this review, and subsequently reporting Taking all factors into consideration, the Committee its opinion to the Board, the Committee had regard to was satisfied with managements approach, estimates the following: and presentation.
The adequacy of the systems for bringing all the relevant Management override of internal control information to the attention of the preparers of the report In the absence of an internal audit function, the Committee and accounts and the adequacy of the controls operating looks for external assurance on the operation of controls over the system.
over certain parts of the business.
This is achieved by instructing third parties which may include the external Whether the procedures for obtaining assurance over the auditor to review the control environment in a particular accuracy of the information were sufficient.
The Committee remains satisfied with the level of The consistency of the reports within themselves and with assurance gained from this approach.
other reports and whether they are in accordance with the information received by the Board during the year.
Whether the statements were written in straightforward language with the use of any adjusted measures adequately explained.
116 Governance Taxation and REIT compliance Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures for The Committee noted that, should the Group not comply safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the with the REIT regulations, it could incur tax penalties or external auditor.
ultimately be expelled from the REIT regime which would In assessing this matter the Committee noted the following: have a significant effect on the financial statements.
The Each year the auditor issues the Committee with an Committee noted the frequency with which compliance Independence Letter which confirms their independence with the regulations was reported to the Board and and compliance with the Auditing Practices Board APB considered the margin by which the Group complied.
This is provided after the auditor has Based on this and the level of headroom shown in the considered the following matters: latest Group forecasts the Committee agreed that no Any relationships of which they are aware that, in their further action was required for the current year.
professional judgement, may reasonably be thought to Borrowings and derivatives bear on their independence and the objectivity of the This was considered an area of elevated risk due to the audit engagement partner and staff.
conversion of the Groups 2.75% convertible bonds 2016 Any services that the auditor has provided to the in January 2015.
The Committee sought assurance from Group in addition to the audit of the consolidated management regarding the accounting treatment of the financial statements.
conversion and was advised that the Groups corporate The total amount of fees that the auditor has charged lawyers had advised both on the initial structure of the the Group for the provision of services during the convertible bonds and the effect on the Groups reserves reporting period.
at the time of conversion.
In addition, being a first half The amounts of any future services that have been transaction, the accounting had been discussed and contracted for, or where a written proposal has agreed with the auditor at the time of the Groups interim been submitted.
This was subsequently confirmed by the auditor.
The Company operates a policy under which the auditor The Committee was satisfied with the level of assurance cannot be appointed for any non-audit work where the gained from these procedures.
fee exceeds 25,000 without the appointment being Monitored the integrity of the Groups interim and annual approved by the Audit Committee.
There have been financial statements and the two business updates no such appointments during 2015. published during the year and reviewed the significant Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups viability Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit taking into statement and going concern assumption and advised the account the views of both management and theauditor.
It also reviewed the audit plan and considered the quality of the planning, the extent to which it was tailored to the Considered the need for an internal audit function and business and its ability to respond to any changes in the concluded that one was not needed given the scale and business.
Having considered all these matters the complexity of the business, but that external assurance may Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC be sought in particular areas identied as higher risk.
be re-appointed as auditor to the Group.
Noted that the accounts for the Groups pension schemes had been audited and that no matters had been raised.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
STEPHEN G. YOUNG CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 25 FEBRUARY 2016 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 117
