Corporate governance Good governance is based on the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on risks, transparency in how we operate and a culture of continuous improvement.
Our at management structure ensures that good governance extends beyond the Boardroom.
Dear fellow shareholder The Boards oversight of our strategic priorities during the year and monitoring of risks As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring the Board operates effectively and efficiently and that it continues to uphold the high The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on pages 1 standard of corporate governance for the long-term success of to 11.
In our Annual Report last year we identied that our strategic the Company.
I believe the achievement of good governance is priorities for 2014 15 were to: based on the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, crystallise profits through recycling: a focus on risks, a commitment to transparency and ensuring a deliver our development programme: and culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance drive rental growth.
Each year, the Board formally revisits its level of oversight and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas Following our success this year in executing these priorities and including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure with market conditions continuing to be supportive, our attention on developments, finance, people and sustainability matters.
for this year will again be focused on crystallising the value we have generated to maximise shareholder returns and appropriately This culture, combined with our at management structure and manage risk.
With our clearly identied initiatives, we will continue high level of involvement by executive and senior management in to deliver our expanded development programme, recycle capital all our activities, ensures that this good governance extends beyond and actively work our assets to drive rental growth.
the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind inthe successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over both the short and See our strategic priorities on pages 10 and 11 long term.
What we did in 2014 15 In the year ended 31 March 2015, significant transactions approved by the Board included: May 2014 June 2014 July 2014 the New Look ofce rent review the redevelopment of at Wells & More, 45 Mortimer 30 Broadwick Street, W1 Street, W1 together with the off-site development and sale of See page 37 residential at 78 82Great Portland Street lease of fifth oor, Wells & More, 45 Mortimer Street, W1 the commencement of the toLionsgate residential sales programme atRathbone Square, W1 See page 30 See page 33 the purchase of an interest rate hedging derivative See page 43 76 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance As part of our monitoring of where we are in the property cycle, Board changes in the year and ateach scheduled Board meeting we consider a market conditions successionplanning dashboard which, we believe, helps us identify emerging trends As I reported in our 2014 Report, we were delighted to welcome within the wider economy, the UK and London property market Charles Philipps to the Board as Non-Executive Director in April andUK real estate nancing markets.
Formal review of our risk 2014 and he has already made a strong contribution to the Board.
appetite through our operational parameters is undertaken as part of our Strategy Review.
These operational parameters are See our Board on pages 50 and 51 then used as part of our ongoing monitoring of our risks within our scheduled Board meetings.
More details of our risks and how Following Charles Irbys retirement from the Board at the 2014 theseare managed can be found on pages 64 to 73.
Annual General Meeting, Jonathan Nicholls became our Senior Independent Director and Jonathan Short became Chairman To ensure that risks associated with major transactions and how of the Remuneration Committee.
To broaden the Nomination these t in with the Groups strategy for long-term success are Committees outlook, the Nomination Committees membership has fullydebated at Board level, Board approval is required for: been extended to all Non-Executive Directors.
Jonathan Short and all sales and acquisitions where the Groups share is over Elizabeth Holden joined the Nomination Committee from 1 April 25million: 2014, with Charles Philipps joining from 1 July 2014. any development expenditure over 15 million: The Board also reviews the succession planning and personal any leases of 1 million p. a. or above: and development requirements for key executives and senior managers any new nancing equity or debt.
In January 2015, we appointed Sally Learoyd as Head of Human Resources to help us further enhance our efforts Each year, the Board formally reviews the level of oversight it has in this area.
over a variety of matters including strategy, transactions, finance, people and sustainability matters including the level at which transactions should be reviewed by the Board.
At our April 2015 Board meeting, we concluded that the matters reserved for the Board, updated following changes to the Groups Treasury policy, and the levels at which various transactions require Board approval, remain appropriate.
August 2014 September 2014 January 2015 March 2015 the forward sale of our approval of a new 450 million the development of 73 89 the acquisition of Starwoods development of 12 14 New Revolving Credit Facility Oxford Street and pre-let of one 50% interest in City Tower Fetter Lane, EC4 of the retail units to New Look and City Place House, EC2 See page 38 for 134.5 million including repayment of bank debt November 2014 See page 31 the revised Rathbone Square budget See page 30 See page 33 the appointment of the main contractor for our Rathbone Square development and the revised budget See page 33 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 77 Corporate governance The last external Board evaluation was undertaken in the year This years Board evaluation ended 31 March 2014.
The next external evaluation will be In accordance with our policy to undertake the Board evaluation undertaken in the year ending 31 March 2017. process in-house between external evaluations held every three years, this years evaluation was undertaken by Jonathan Nicholls Feedback received on communication with as Senior Independent Director supported by Desna Martin, shareholders and otherstakeholders our Company Secretary.
The process involved completion of a Communication with investors is given a high priority by the Board questionnaire followed by one-to-one meetings between Jonathan with 203 presentations being made in the year to shareholders Nicholls and each director and a meeting between Jonathan and potential shareholders by a combination of the Executive Nicholls and me in respect of both my and Jonathans performance.
Director team and Senior management below the Board.
The process covered Board Committee and personal performance Independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors and the output was reviewed initially by me as Chairman and then to all major shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive by the full Board at the January 2015 Board meeting.
Directors on a regular basis at the scheduled Board meetings.
I am Overall it was considered that the Board and its Committees pleased to be able to report that we received external recognition continued to work effectively.
In an effort to continue to improve, for our investor relations efforts by winning the Best Investor however, recommendations arising from the evaluation included: Communication Award at the PLC Awards 2014, being shortlisted for IR Magazines Best Overall European Investor Relations award continued focus on succession planning, resourcing, training and and being highly commended in the PwC Building Public Trust development needs: Awards for Excellence in Reporting in respect of our Annual review of Board Papers to ensure appropriate executive summaries: Report.
In addition, we received a gold award in relation to EPRAs review of agendas to ensure the optimum balance of time spent: 2014 Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations, a green and star in relation to GRESB and were named European Borrower more detailed feedback being provided to the full Board from the of2014 by Real Estate Capital.
Committee Chairs on matters discussed by the Committees.
Progress against the recommendations from last years review is Executive reward linked to the Groups set out below.
performance for shareholders Recommendations Under the Groups long-term incentive plans, the level of reward from 2013 14 Board tothe Executive Directors and Senior management depends effectiveness review Progress on the performance of the Group over a three-year period.
I am Review of Nomination Nomination Committee membership pleased to beable to report that 76% of the Total Shareholder Committee timing and extended to all Non-Executive Directors.
Return TSR and 100% of the NAV elements of the Groups processes to improve Formal Nomination Committee meetings effectiveness main 2011 LTIP and SMP awards vested reecting the underlying introduced for May and September.
Quarterly updates provided by Toby Courtauld strong financial performance of the Company as demonstrated on succession planning and people through the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of TSR and NAV development.
TSR for the three-year period to 1 June 2014 was 68%.
Review of Remuneration Timely meeting between the Remuneration The NAV uplift for the three years to 31 March 2014 was 58%.
Committee timing Committee Chairman, Chief Executive and We also exceeded the Total Property Return benchmark for the andprocesses remuneration consultants to consider areas three-year period to 31 March 2014 by 0.9 percentage points for focus supporting documentation sought resulting in a vesting level of 82% for the main LTIP and SMP for review of remuneration arrangements.
As at the date of this report, forthe June 2012 LTIP and 2015, thismeeting willbe held in the summer.
Formal review of remuneration arrangements SMP awards, we expect 100% of the TSR hurdle, 100% of the and market practices conducted by the NAV hurdle and 42% of the TPR hurdle to bemet.
In 2015, itisintended this meeting will be held Following a review by the Remuneration Committee of the inSeptember.
effectiveness of the Groups incentive plans, we are pleased with In the year ended 31 March 2015, the number the Groups performance and believe that the incentives continue of Committee meetings was reduced from to provide a strong alignment between shareholders and the eleventosix.
Executive and wider management team.
Involvement of the whole Ongoing.
Board in determining the qualities and experiences Martin Scicluna Chairman needed in any new 20 May 2015 Non-Executive Directors considered for appointment as part of the orderly succession of NonExecutive Directors over thecoming years, to retain the Boards strongculture 78 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance Statement by the directors on compliance with the Composition and independence provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code As at 31 March 2015, the Board comprises the Chairman, A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the year ended 31 March The biographies of all members of the Board outlining the 2015, the Company fully complied with the Main Principles set out experience they bring to their roles are set out on pages 50 inthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, publicly available and 51.
Martin Scicluna as Chairman is responsible for leading at www.
In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate the Board and its effectiveness, meeting with shareholders as Governance Code was published which will apply to the Company appropriate.
Toby Courtauld as Chief Executive is responsible for for the year ending 31 March 2016 and the Company will report the day-to-day management of theCompany.
Jonathan Nicholls, on its application in 2016. the Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders as required and acts as a sounding board forthe Chairman.
Each year the terms of reference for the roles of Chairman, Chief The role of the Board and its Committees Executive and Senior Independent Director are revisited by the duringtheyear whole Board.
The Board of Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of independent of the executive management and free from any the Company for its shareholders and its role includes the business or other relationship which could materially interfere establishment, review and monitoring of strategic objectives, withthe exercise of their independent judgement.
approval of major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and nancing arrangements and of the Groups systems of internal See pages 90 and 91 for more details on directors independence control, governance and risk management.
Directors tenure as at 31 March 2015 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Martin Scicluna 6 years 5 months Toby Courtauld 12 years 11 months Nick Sanderson 3 years 8 months Neil Thompson 8 years 7 months Elizabeth Holden 2 years 6 months Jonathan Nicholls 5 years 8 months Charles Philipps 1 year Jonathan Short 8 years Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors The Boards attendance in 2014 15 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Board scheduled Board other Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee 1 1 6 meetings 3 meetings 3meetings 6meetings 6meetings Chairman 2 3 3 2 2 Martin Scicluna Executive Directors Toby Courtauld Nick Sanderson Neil Thompson Non-Executive Directors 3 3 3 0 0 1 1 3 3 1 1 Charles Irby Elizabeth Holden Jonathan Nicholls 4 2 2 5 5 Charles Philipps Jonathan Short 1.
There were three unscheduled Board meetings during the year seeBoard activities on pages 76 and 77.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Remuneration or Audit Committees, in his role of Chairman of the Board, he is invited, where appropriate to attend key meetings of the Remuneration Committee relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half year and year-end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
Charles Irby retired from the Board on 3 July 2014.
The number in parentheses is the maximum number of meetings Charles Irby could have attended.
Charles Philipps joined the Audit and Nomination Committees on 1 July 2014.
The number in parentheses is the maximum number of meetings Charles Philipps could have attended.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 79 Corporate governance Board activities The Board meets for scheduled Board meetings six times a year.
Regular matters reserved for consideration by the Board at these meetings include: July September November January April May Standard reports Shareholder analysis Chief Executives Report including market conditions dashboard, operational parameters, investment market and propositions, asset strategies, team resourcing and development Portfolio Directors Report including valuation, leasing activity, major developments summary, approved vs. actual development spend, longer-term pipeline and sales review, Health and Safety Finance Directors Report including forecasts, finance initiatives and tenant watch list Subjects reviewed Strategic review and setting of Business Plan Review of market conditions dashboard, operational parameters, implementation ofBusiness Plan and forecasts Board property tour Review of half year or annual results, going concern, dividend policy andanalyst presentation Review of AGM Trading Statement Formal review of risk management and internal controls Ongoing monitoring of risks Feedback from shareholders and analysts Reports from Board Committees Board evaluation Corporate governance matters including Board evaluation, authority levels, Terms of Reference, UKCorporate Governance Code compliance Annual Health and Safety and Sustainability Reports includingapproval of the Companys Health and Safety  Annual Corporate Responsibility Report including approval ofthe Companys Ethics and Whistleblowing policies and sustainability objectivesand targets Conicts of interest Keeping the Board informed in 2014 15 Since 1 April 2014, the Board April 2014 May 2014 July 2014 has received a number of Economic overview and Audit Committee met with London residential market update presentations from external business implications the valuers speakers on the market andfrom senior managers atGPE on their areas of focus.
Marc Wilder, Head of Leasing Audit Committee met Property market and outlook Evolution of central London withthe valuers occupier demand 80 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance Other ad hoc matters for consideration by the Board at both The Executive Directors meet weekly as the Executive scheduled and unscheduled Board meetings in addition to the Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with the above may include: ongoing management of the Group with copies of the minutes ofthese meetings being distributed to the Chairman and major potential acquisitions and disposals: Non-Executive Directors.
significant leasing arrangements: To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive approval of major developments: appropriate and timely information, including brieng papers significant nancing arrangements: distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property Board and senior management appointments: and tourswhich this year comprised a tour of Walmar House, W1 appointment of principal advisers.
following practical completion and a tour of the Rathbone Major transactions approved by the Board in the year can be found Square, W1 residential marketing suite.
All directors have access on pages 76 and 77. to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings, the directors receive all relevant papers in advance and their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
At least once a year, the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved for its decision.
Following changes to the P resentations from our GPE senior Groups Treasury policy in April 2015, the schedule of matters reserved for decision was amended to include the amending managers help provide the Nonor cancelling of any loans and derivatives.
The Chairman and Executive Directors with an update on the otherNon-Executives meet regularly without the Executive key areas of the business and serve Directors, and at least once a year the Non-Executives meet to highlight the breadth of the team.
In addition, individual directors meet regularlyoutside the formal Board meetings as part of each Elizabeth Holden Non-Executive Director directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy andreview of operations.
September 2014 November 2014 January 2015 April 2015 Andrew White, Head of Audit Committee met with Audit Committee met with Economic overview, London Development and James Pellatt, the valuers the valuers property market outlook and Head of Projects investment study Progress on developments, Stephen Burrows, Head Ben Chambers, risksand mitigations of Financial Reporting and Investment Director Mashood Ashraf, Project Investor Relations May 2015 Central Londonmarket update Manager and Rebecca Williams, IR update Marketing Manager Audit Committee met with valuers March 2015 Tour of Walmar House and Rathbone Square residential Governance update tothe marketing suite Audit Committee Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 81 Corporate governance Committees of the Board Our Conicts of interest procedures The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise which deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs, each of potential conicts of interest that may arise and to impose such which has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually limits or conditions as it thinks t. The Company has established by the Board.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on a procedure whereby actual and potential conicts of interest written request and on the Companys website at www.
co. uk of current and proposed roles to be undertaken by the directors investors governance with other organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of both the nature of those roles and their time commitment, and for The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the proper authorisation to be sought.
A director who has a conict of meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee memberships are interest is not counted in the quorum or entitled to vote when the included in the directors biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Board considers the matter in which the director has an interest.
The Board considers these procedures to be working effectively.
Board induction and development On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected Internal controls and ongoing risk management to provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 The Board recognises that it is responsible for maintaining and days ayear, are provided with a detailed induction programme.
monitoring the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing This coversthe Companys operations, including social, ethical its effectiveness, at least annually.
and environmental matters, the Groups principal risks and internal controls in place to manage those risks, meetings with Senior Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, management andtours of the Groups main properties.
assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed tomanage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent businessobjectives.
professional advice and are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, Senior managers and external advisers present to the Board evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: during the year on a range of subjects and the directors also these processes and procedures were in place throughout the individually attend seminars or conferences associated with their year under review and up to the date of the approval of the expertise or responsibility and each quarter areprovided with a list AnnualReport, and accord with the Financial Reporting Councils of relevant upcoming seminars provided by various professional guidance Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the rms.
The level and nature of training by the directors is reviewed Combined Code.
by the Chairman at least annually.
Key features of the system of internal control include: As summarised in last years Annual Report, Charles Philipps a comprehensive system of financial reporting and undertook a detailed induction programme starting ahead of his business planning: formally joining the Board on 1 April 2014 including attending a dened schedule of matters for decision by the Board: the GPE Investor Conference held at Oxford House in February an organisational structure with clearly dened levels of authority 2014, meeting with each of the directors and the Company and division of responsibilities: Secretary, going through the 2013 and 2014 Strategy Review formal documentation procedures: with Toby Courtauld in advance of the 2014 Annual Strategic the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects Review inApril2014, meeting with the Investment Director, of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with Senior Heads of Investment Management, Asset Management, Leasing, management to review all operational aspects of the business Development, Project Management, Financial Reporting and and risk management systems: Investor Relations and Corporate Finance either as part of tours the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on of the portfolio or in separate meetings, meeting with the auditors developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and to gain an insight into Deloittes relationship with the team and formal sign-off on the Groups Ethics and Whistleblowing policies key accounting matters, meeting with the valuers to understand by all employees annually.
Since then, Charles has been provided with details of and attended an external property seminar and in common with the other Non-Executive Directors has continued to meet with Executive Directors outside of the Board meetings.
82 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of theframework of how the Groups risks are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and ongoing Board review and oversight of key controls.
The Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This involves the identication of risks specic to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and theregulatory environment.
Review is also carried out as to how the controls and reporting procedures have operated during the year.
Keyrisks tothe business, how these have changed during the year and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risksare described in more detail on pages 64 to 73.
Fair, balanced and understandable a matter for the whole Board The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable is made on page 121.
As part of its considerations as to whether the 2015 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy, the Board takes into account the following: the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and agree on the overall messages and tone of the Annual Report at an early stage: individual sections of the Annual Report and financial statements are drafted by appropriate Senior management with regular review meetings to ensure consistency of the whole document: detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual Report and financial statements are undertaken by the Executive Directors: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the auditors on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration and is discussed with the Finance Director and Senior management prior to consideration by the Board: and the Finance Director, in his May Board paper, includes a checklist of areas that the Board should take into consideration in considering the fairness, consistency and balance of the final draft of the Annual Report and financial statements, including whether the Board considers that there are any omissions in information.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 83 Corporate governance The Executive Directors and corporate finance team also have Relations with investors regular dialogue with our debt providers, including relationship Communication with investors is given a high priority and the banks, private placement investors, debenture holders and Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders convertible bond holders.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also meets and potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts through with major shareholders, as appropriate, during the course of acomprehensive investor relations programme.
Directors and the Head of Financial Reporting & Investor Relations are the Companys principal representatives with investors, Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys website analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties, and atwww.
co. uk investors presentations independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors Investor contact by method to major shareholders and analysts is provided to the Non- 2 Executive Directors on a regular basis.
18 Roadshow meeting The investor relations programme is executed through a Conference meeting 102 Property tour varietyofroutes and across a number of geographies, including Other roadshowmeetings, meetings at industry conferences, property tours bothwith individual investors and also as group tours andcommunication with analysts and investment banks equity 203 salesteams.
meetings 81 During the year, the Executive Directors and Senior management had 203 formal meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders asdetailed below.
For more information on our direct and indirectengagement withinvestors on sustainability, see pages 55, 60 and 61 Investor contact by location 13 United Kingdom United States and Canada 19 Rest of Europe 11 6 Rest of World 55 203 meetings Relations with investors Activity calendar May 2014 June 2014 July 2014 September 2014 Investor roadshow: Investor roadshows: Equity sales force meetings x2 Investor roadshow: London Amsterdam US Canada Paris Annual General Meeting Equity sales force meetings x2 Conferences: Conferences: Kempen Amsterdam, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Morgan Stanley London New York, Goldman Sachs London, Equity sales force meetings x2 EPRA London, Societe Generale London Sell side analyst property tour 84 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Go Gov five er rn na an nc ce e Both the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Martin Stay up to date download our Investor Relations App at: yp pp Scicluna and Jonathan Nicholls respectively are each available, ble, www www.
co. uk investors asappropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
See details of our significant shareholders on page 118 The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, m, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet o meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration eration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AnnualGeneral Meeting on 8 July 2015 can be found d in the Notice of Meeting on pages 164 and 165.
After the Annual General Meeting, the Companys Registrars will count nt and verify the poll votes.
The results will be announced to the e London Stock Exchange andwill bepublished on our website at te at www.
co. uk investors  agm m Our awards Best Overall W e are delighted that the effort European IR putinto our Annual Report, investor relations programme andIR app havebeen recognised by anumber of awards.
Stephen Burrows Head of Financial Reporting and Investor Relations See details of our IR and other awards on page 78 November 2014 December 2014 January 2015 February 2015 Investor roadshows: Investor roadshow: Investor roadshows: Conferences: London US Scotland Asia Amsterdam JP Morgan Cazenove London Conferences: Conferences: Equity sales force meetings x1 Equity sales force meetings x2 BNP Paribas London, UBS London, Peel Hunt JP Morgan Cazenove London London March 2015 Equity sales force meetings x3 Conferences: Citigroup US, Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Equity sales force meetings x3 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 85 Corporate governance Dear fellow shareholder Audit Committee Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems and the independence and effectiveness of the auditors.
Audit Committee and advisers During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Charles Irby until his retirement at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, Charles Philipps from 1 July 2014, Jonathan Short, Elizabeth Holden and myself.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting and discussion with the Groups external auditors in respect of the Groups half year and year-end results and meetings are also attended by the valuers, certain Executive Directors and senior managers by invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings in connection with the half year and yearend results.
Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of Audit Committee The Committee meets regularly during the year, in alignment with the financial reporting timetable.
Accounting and key areas of judgement A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently on ayear on year basis.
The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings in September and March each year to consider proposed accounting treatments for major transactions, significant reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those judgements in advance of the half year and year-endresults.
What we did in 2014 15 July 2014 September 2014 November 2014 Review of Interim Management Statement Annual planning meeting Review of half year results Meeting with the valuers Meeting with the auditors Meeting with the valuers Review of: Review of: Review of: June 2014 valuation effectiveness and independence of the PwCs controls review auditors see pages 88 and 89 Interim Management Meeting with the auditors Statement announcement 2014 sustainability management letter Review of: the Development Appraisal process September 2014 valuation significant accounting, reporting and significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 87 judgement matters, including going concern 2015 Audit Plan see page 87 changes in legislation in relation to audit principal risks, monitoring of internal controls retendering and non-audit fees and risk management processes half year result announcement Meeting with PwC to discuss financial related controls review 86 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance significant matter Action taken Valuation of the As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee, together Groups portfolio with Martin Scicluna, meets with the valuers along with the auditors to discuss thevaluation included within the half year and year-end financial statements.
This includes the valuation process undertaken, changes in market conditions and recent transactions in the market and how these have impacted upon GPEs valuation, valuation movements on individual buildings and the valuers expectations in relation to future rental growth and yield movement.
The external auditors, Deloitte, meet with the valuers separately from the Audit Committee, using real estate specialists where appropriate, and provide the Audit Committee with a summary of their review as part of their report on the half year and year-end results.
In addition, the Audit Committee also meets with the valuers todiscuss the valuation included inthe interim management statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see notes 1, 10 and 11.
Acquisitions, Acquisitions, disposals and revenue recognition from significant lease transactions or development management disposals agreements are considered to the extent that there are any unusual terms and conditions or judgements made and revenue inrelation to timing.
recognition In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee in conjunction with Deloitte reviewed and challenged managements accounting proposals in relation to: the sale of the residential apartments at Rathbone Square, W1 where the disposals will be recognised when theapartment sales complete see note 11: and the recognition of 1.7 million of construction profits subsequent to the sale of 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 within development management profit.
The Audit Committee concurred with the accounting treatment of these matters.
REIT status The Audit Committee reviews current year and forecast compliance with the REIT tests every six months.
Going concern Although going concern is a matter for the whole Board, see page 118, a review is made by the Audit Committee of the Groups headroom under its covenants andundrawn facilities in relation to the Groups financial forecasts andsensitivity analyses.
January 2015 March 2015 May 2015 Review of Interim Management Statement Year-end planning update Review of year-end results Meeting with the valuers Meeting with the auditors Meeting with the valuers Review of: Review of: Meeting with the auditors December 2014 valuation significant accounting, reporting and Review of: judgement matters see above Interim Management March 2015 valuation see pages Statement announcement developments in corporate governance 28and 29 and reporting requirements and significant accounting, reporting and Approval of: proposed disclosure in the 2015 Annual judgement matters including going Deloitte undertaking an econometric Report in relation to the UK Corporate concern see above analysis of central London and Governance Code Group tax matters with the Head of adjoining boroughs for use in the 2015 Audit Plan update Corporate Finance Strategy Review non-audit fees principal risks, monitoring of internal controls Deloitte Real Estate undertaking rights of areas of potential fraud for personal gain and risk management processes see light and party wall work at 73 89 Oxford and mitigating controls in place pages 64 to 73 Street, W1 Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy the potential need for internal audit seepage 44 Annual Report Results Announcement Agreement of 2015 audit fee the Committees effectiveness relationship between the auditors and GPE management reappointment of the auditors Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 87 Corporate governance Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they were not The external audit, review of its effectiveness, aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, made to non-audit services and auditor reappointment achieve a particular presentation.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit After reviewing the reports from management and consulting work agreed by the Audit Committee, and their effectiveness, wherenecessary with the auditors and valuers, the Audit independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately and results of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect review of the effectiveness of the external audit process, a formal of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is evaluation process incorporating views from the Audit Committee also satisfied that theprocesses used for determining the value and relevant members of management is considered by the Audit of the assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, Committee and feedback is provided to theauditors.
Areas covered challenged and aresufcientlyrobust.
by this review include: Fair, balanced and understandable the calibre of the external audit rm including reputation, coverage and industry presence: Whether the 2015 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable is considered to be a matter quality controls including review processes, partner oversight, for the whole Board and the Audit Committees role is covered reports from the Audit Quality Review Team and regulators, and use ofspecialists: onpage 83. the audit team covering quality of individuals, knowledge, Internal controls and risk management resources, partner involvement, team rotation, the audit scope including planning and execution, scope adequacy and The Audit Committees role in reviewing principal risks, internal specialistareas: controls and risk management processes is covered on pages audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: 64and 65. audit communications and effectiveness planning, new developments regulations, approach to critical accounting Internal audit policies, issues and risks, quality of processes, timely resolution Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an of issues, freedom of communication with the Audit Committee internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the and feedback on management performance: Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, governance and independence internal governance a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit Committee, through acombination of the external audit process or through integrity of the audit team, Audit Committee confidence in the reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisers audit team and transparency: as appropriate.
ethical standards including conicts of interest, non-audit work and partner rotation: and PwC reviewed the Groups internal controls in 2014.
It reported potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
that there had been a relatively low level of findings compared to companies of a similar size and that actions had been taken by The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management in management to address all recommendations of how controls the external audit process in respect of the timely identication and could be improved.
resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from the auditors and the Audit Committee as appropriate: and the timely As a result of a separate internal review of areas of potential fraud provision of the draft half year results announcement and Annual for personal gain and mitigating controls, no incidents of fraud were Report and Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
identied and a small number of internal audit procedures have been introduced to provide ongoing review of compliance with internal policies and procedures on a test basis.
88 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance In addition to the review of the formal management letter from Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the the auditors which outlines how points raised by the auditors have year are disclosed on page 132.
In addition, audit and non-audit been addressed by management, feedback is sought from the fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of joint ventures totalled auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team during 38,500 GPEshare 2014: 34,000 and nil 2014: nil theaudit process.
The three-year average of non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees to the year ended 31 March 2015 In addition, I meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal assetout below is 43%.
Committee process during the year on a regular basis.
2015 2014 2013 The auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audit and 000s 000s 000s other services which the Audit Committee believe they are best Audit fees including related audit placed to undertake due to their position as auditors under the assurance services including fees for joint ventures managed by GPE Groups policyin respect of non-audit services permitted to GPE share 282 281 234 be provided bythe external auditor.
The purpose of this policy available from theCompanys website at www.
co. uk Non-audit fees including fees for jointventures managed by GPE investors governance is toensure auditor independence and GPE share 127 117 102 objectivity is maintained.
Under the policy, prior approval is required Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 45% 42% 44% by the AuditCommittee for any non-statutory assignments over 50,000, or where such anassignment would take the cumulative In addition to ensuring compliance with the Groups policy in total of non-audit fees paid tothe external auditors over 50% of respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, the that years audit fees.
Deloitte Real Estate on occasions provides Audit Committee also receives conrmation from Deloitte LLP that the Group and the Groups joint ventures with advice on rights of it remains independent and has maintained internal safeguards to light, party walls and other items involving adjoining owners or third ensure its objectivity.
Fees paid to Deloitte Real Estate by both the Group and the joint ventures are, therefore, also monitored Following a tender process, Deloitte LLP has been the Groups by the Audit Committee.
In addition, from November 2014, the auditor since 2003.
Itis a requirement that the audit partner appointment of Deloitte to undertake any non-audit services now responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits is rotated every requires the prior approval of the Finance Director.
five years and a new lead audit partner took responsibility for the audit in June 2013.
Under the Companys current interpretation During the year, activities undertaken by the auditors for the Group of the transitional arrangements for mandatory audit rotation, outside of the main audit included: the Company will be required to rotate the audit for the financial reporting on the income cover in connection with the debenture year ended 2024.
Notwithstanding these requirements, in the trust deed compliance certicate: best interests of shareholders, the Committee will continue advice on the tax legislation on property transactions: to consider the tender ofthe audit annually depending on the advice on the tax treatment of the 150 million auditors performance.
Convertible Bond: Having undertaken its review, in the opinion of the Audit neighbourly matters undertaken by Deloitte Real Estate at Committee, the relationship with the auditors works well and 73 89Oxford Street, W1: theCommittee remains satisfied with their independence and an econometric analysis of growth prospects for central London effectiveness.
The Committee has, therefore, recommended to the and adjoining boroughs: Board that Deloitte be reappointed as auditor at the 2015 Annual assurance on achievement against 2014 15 sustainability General Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations restricting objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and the Companys choice of external auditor.
Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 May 2015 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 89 Corporate governance Dear fellow shareholder Nomination Committee Welcome to the Report of the Nomination Committee.
Each year the Nomination Committee undertakes a review of the Groups succession plans and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
Charles Philipps was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014 and the process leading to his appointment was described in last years Annual Report.
This year our main focus has been on evolving our succession planning and challenging how we as a Board can do things better.
Nomination Committee members During the year, the Nomination Committee membership was broadened to include all of the Non-Executive Directors comprised of myself, Jonathan Nicholls, Jonathan Short, Elizabeth Holden and Charles Irby until his retirement at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, with Charles Philipps joining the Committee from 1 July 2014.
In making any Board appointments, the Nomination Martin Scicluna Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee also consults with the Chief Executive and other members of the Board as appropriate.
Ensuring the directors commitment and independence to their roles In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Director appointments, the Nomination Committee specically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed NonExecutive and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Board is also required before a director may accept any additional commitments to ensure possible conicts of interest are identied and that they will continue to have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Any other conicts of interest are also considered at each Board meeting.
What we did in 2014 15 May 2014 September 2014 January 2015 Review of: Review of: At the Board meeting, consideration of: succession and development plans for the the proposed 2014 15 Board Board diversity policy Executive Directors and key senior managers evaluation process succession planning and managers with the Chief Executive Board agendas, papers and timing of meetings presentations from Senior Managers to the development plans for the Executive Directors Board through the year agreed and key senior managers 90 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Governance Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms, Our approach to diversity butfollowing the UK Corporate Governance Code are subject The Boards policy remains that selection should be based on the to annual re-election and all proposed re-elections to the Board best person for the role.
Whilst the Nomination Committee has are formally considered by the Nomination Committee in respect continued to choose not to set specic representation targets of each individuals continued effectiveness and commitment to for women at Board level, this year we amended our policy to therole, with those directors who will have served more than six emphasise that on recruitment, we expect our search consultants years on the Board being subject to particular focus.
to ensure, where possible, at least 30% of potential candidates identied are women.
Furthermore, our Executive Committee As part of the Board evaluation process, Jonathan Nicholls, as has mirrored this policy for all recruitment below Board level.
Senior Independent Director, led a review of all the directors with The benets of diversity, including gender diversity, will continue specic consideration of the fact that Jonathan Short and myself to be an active consideration whenever changes to the Boards will have served on the Board for eight and six years respectively composition are contemplated.
by the time of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Feedback was provided to the Board as a whole at the January 2015 Board Meeting.
After the January Board meeting, Jonathan Nicholls Martin Scicluna also met with the Board collectively to consider my performance.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Following this Board evaluation, the Nomination Committee is 20 May 2015 confident that each director continues to remain committed to their role, exercising independent judgement and challenge as required.
Succession planning Succession planning and personal development requirements for key Executives and Senior Managers across the team are kept under regular review by the Committee with the Chief Executive and are discussed by the whole Board as part of the Strategy Review.
The Committee appreciates that there are not necessarily obvious successors for every senior role in a relatively at management structure but that individuals development within their roles is key.
To this end, from this year it is proposed that our Head of Human Resources will report at the September Board meeting each year on learning and development across the Group and, in particular, inrelation to our Heads of Department.
March 2015 April 2015 Review of: At the Board meeting, review of: the Board evaluation feedback succession and development plans for the Executive Directors and key senior managers training undertaken by the Board in 2014 15 and managers as part of the Strategy Review reappointments to the Board to be proposed atthe 2015 Annual General Meeting Committee memberships succession planning Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 91
