Strategic report Governance Financial statements The bonus criteria for 2016 include four elements: Target Performance measure % of Potential award Financial Targets Normalised Income Profit before tax from 48 million to 52 Up to 20% of award.
up to 40% of award million, with adjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Normalised Total Profit before tax from 48 million to 64 million, with adjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Occupancy Cost The occupancy target range is a net improvement of 50,000 Up to 10% of award.
Efficiency Targets square metres to 100,000 square metres pro-rata.
up to 20% of award The cost efficiency target range is an administrative expenses Up to 10% of award.
Corporate Target Production and execution of a two-year operational business Up to 20% of award.
To submit a succession plan to the Board.
Development of strategy to include asset, liability and hedging strategies.
Discretionary Element Based on overall performance Up to 20% of award.
up to 20% of award Performance Share Plan TSR NAV Growth Vesting Annual awards are subject to a maximum value at grant Ranking of 150% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary Below Median Nil for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder Long Term Incentive Plan.
For Median 25% 2016, each Joint Chief Executive Director will be awarded Between Median and On a straight-line basis between nil-cost share options under the PSP with a value at grant Upper quartile 25% and 100% in proportion to the of 75% of his base salary.
The Finance Director will also be Companys ranking between awarded nil-cost share options under the PSP with a value Median and Upper Quartile.
at grant of 75% of his base salary.
The awards will vest based on two separate performance conditions: 50% will vest by reference to the Groups TSR ranking and 50% by Founder LTIP reference to the Groups EPRA Net Asset Value ranking, in Under the Founder LTIP a new three-year performance each case relative to a comparator group over a three-year measurement period will commence on 1 January performance period.
Awards that meet the performance 2016 and end on 31 December 2018.
Each Founder conditions are exercisable in three equal annual Director will be entitled to an award of shares with a instalments following the end of the performance period.
value equivalent to 12.5% of the excess over a 10% per annum compound growth in the NAV per share over The comparator group is determined by the Committee the performance measurement period after adding and comprises a peer group of companies in the property back dividends and other returns to shareholders.
When granting awards, the Committee reserves Joint Chief Executives have agreed that the Founder the right to vary the constituents of the comparator group LTIP will be subject to a dilution limit of 10% over ten or take such other actions as it considers reasonable in years, adjusted for new share issues and that they the event that any member of the comparator group will hold their shares for two years post vesting.
ceases to exist, or its shares cease to be listed in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange or other recognised stock exchange, or it is so changed as to make it, in the opinion of the Committee, unsuitable as a member of the comparator group.
The percentage of the award that vests is subject to the following schedule: Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
