Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Audit Committee Role and responsibilities of the Committee The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information from management in order to allow it to fulfil its objectives and responsibilities.
The Committees principal responsibilities include: reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: ensuring that management has systems and procedures Humphrey Price in place to ensure the integrity of financial information: Chairman of the Audit Committee developing and implementing the policy for the provision of non-audit services by the auditor: Composition of the Committee maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups The Board has established an Audit Committee the external auditor, reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity Committee in accordance with the UK Corporate and independence of the external auditor, considering Governance Code the Code.
During the year ended both the scope of their work and the fees paid to them 31 December 2015, Humphrey Price was Chairman of the for audit and non-audit services: Committee.
Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington considering all matters relating to the recommendation were the other members.
Richard Mully was a member of for appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and the Committee until his retirement from the Board in June terms of engagement of the Groups external auditor: 2015.
Margaret Young joined the Committee on 14 October monitoring the Groups internal audit requirements, 2015.
All committee members are considered by the Board internal financial controls and the audit process: to be independent.
Humphrey Price, Melvyn Egglenton, reviewing the interim and full year financial statements Rebecca Worthington and Margaret Young all have recent prior to their submission to the Board, applying the and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Groups accounting policies and any changes to financial No members of the Committee have links with the reporting requirements: and Companys external auditor.
undertaking a review of the Groups risks on a bi-annual basis.
Senior representatives of the external auditors, Executive Directors and senior management may be invited to attend The full terms of reference of the Committee, reviewed the meetings at the Committees discretion.
The Company in 2015, are available on the Companys website Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Company believes the Committee contains the right Financial reporting balance of knowledge, skill and experience to support the The Committee reviewed and considered the following business in achieving its strategy.
areas in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: The Committee meets regularly during the year aligned to the financial reporting timetable.
During 2015 the the appropriateness of accounting policies used: Committee met three times for scheduled meetings and compliance with external and internal financial details of members attendance at each meeting is shown reporting standards and policies: on page 28. significant judgements made: statutory disclosures: the principal risks of the Group: and whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
No issues arose from this review.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Report of the Audit Committee continued In order to carry out this work, the Committee considered Internal audit the work and recommendations of the Finance team led by The Committee keeps under review the Companys need for the Finance Director, Richard Lowes.
In addition, the an internal audit function.
The majority of the processing Committee received regular reports from the external and accounting for the day-to-day transactions of the auditor setting out their views of the accounting treatments Group is outsourced to third-party suppliers.
Management and judgements included in the financial statements.
The maintain a close relationship with these suppliers and reports from the external auditor are based on a full audit perform regular detailed reviews of their work and report to of the annual financial statements and a review of the the Committee if any significant concerns are raised by interim financial statements.
The Committee regularly reviews the internal controls to ensure that they are adequate for the size and The significant issues considered by the Committee in complexity of the business.
On this basis the Committee relation to the financial statements were: believes that the internal procedures performed by management are performed to the same degree as an valuation and presentation of the Founder Long Term internal audit function.
The Committee and the Board will Incentive Plan Founder LTIP charge: continue to monitor this position on an ongoing basis.
accounting for the investment in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust AIF : The Group has in place a formal whistleblowing policy accounting for the disposal of the investment in and a dedicated independent whistleblowing hotline, Hansteen UK Industrial Property Unit Trust HPUT II : as part of the arrangements set up and monitored by cash box accounting for the share issue: the Committee, so that employees are able to report any investment property valuations: matters of concern.
The Board has appointed Humphrey going concern, viability statement, debt maturity and Price as the Board member with responsibility for the covenant compliance: Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
recognition of overseas deferred tax assets: and reversal of previous impairment of trading properties.
External auditors and their independence The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
In addition to requesting that the external auditor focus on In forming its opinion on the independence and objectivity these areas and report to the Committee with their findings of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the Committee also undertook the following actions: the safeguards operating within Deloitte and they are asked to provide a formal statement of their independence the Committee reviewed and challenged managements to the Company annually.
In addition, to safeguard that assumptions supporting the valuation and presentation independence, the Company ensures compliance with its of the Founder LTIP charge: policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the the Committee considered the form and substance of external auditor under which Deloitte may not provide a the Groups influence over AIF: service which places them in a position where they may the Committee considered the structure of the share be required to audit their own work.
placing and reviewed managements accounting: members of the Committee with relevant and current Specifically, Deloitte are precluded from providing services expertise in property valuations met with valuers of the relating to bookkeeping or other services relating to Group property portfolio to discuss the valuations: accounting records or financial statements of the Group, reviewed the underlying assumptions in the going financial information system design and implementation, concern forecasts, viability calculations and the appraisal or evaluation services, actuarial services, any reasonableness of the stress tests carried out in relation management functions, investment banking services, legal to those forecasts: and services unrelated to the audit, remuneration related considered the supporting evidence for recognition of services or advocacy services.
No issues arose from the above.
30 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external auditor, A comprehensive auditor assessment questionnaire is the Committee reviewed: completed annually by each member of the Committee and the Finance Director.
In addition, feedback is obtained from the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors members of the senior management team, including the engagement letter: Joint Chief Executives, and from the wider finance team.
The the external auditors overall work plan: responses are collated and the resulting analysis the external auditors fee proposal: considered by the Committee and any concerns are a report from the external auditor describing their discussed with the external auditor.
Every third year the arrangements to ensure objectivity and to identify, external audit partner will meet with the Committee report and manage any conflicts of interest: and, Chairman and Finance Director to formally discuss the the extent of non-audit services provided by the external quality of the external audit process using this evaluation auditor to ensure that they are not placed in a position framework and the outcome of those discussions will feed to audit their own work.
into the audit process for the subsequent three years.
During 2015, services provided by Deloitte and their The effectiveness of the management teams role in the associates to the Group, in addition to acting as external external audit process is assessed principally using the auditor, included tax advice in respect of overseas income following performance measures: tax, VAT and property transfer taxes.
The Committee believes that it receives particular benefit from certain the timely identification and resolution of areas of non-audit services being provided by the external auditor accounting judgement: due to their wide and detailed knowledge of the Company the quality and timeliness of papers analysing those and so discretion is used, subject to the controls set out judgements: above, in obtaining such services from Deloitte.
the management teams approach to the value of independent audit and the booking of any audit Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based adjustments arising: and on the work undertaken and are not success related.
the timely provision of draft public documents for review Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration by the auditor and the Committee.
received for other services provided by Deloitte to the Group and confirmation is sought from them that the fee The Committee meets as considered necessary with the payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to external auditor without management being present.
perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
The Committee has fully evaluated all non-audit During the financial year under report, the Committee gave work undertaken by Deloitte during the year against its particular focus to the effectiveness of the audit of the policy and remains comfortable that it is appropriate and acquisition of additional units in AIF, the disposal of HPUT II, the fees justified.
the reversal of the impairment of trading properties and accounting for the Founder LTIP.
Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 77.
External auditor appointment Deloitte have been the Groups external auditor since 2006 External audit effectiveness when the Group prepared its first Annual Report and The Committee has adopted a formal framework in its Financial Statements.
The audit partner responsible for the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process Groups audit matters is changed every five years in which includes a review of the audit partner, the audit team, accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the the planning and scope of the audit, including identification Auditing Practices Board.
The current audit partner is in his of risks, the execution of the audit, the role of the Company third year in office.
and the management team in an effective audit process, communications by the auditor with the Committee, how the external auditor supports the work of the Committee, how the audit contributes insights and adds value, and the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and the quality of the formal, audit report to shareholders.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit tender The Directors have reviewed, as part of the year-end The Committee has established a tendering policy that procedures, the effectiveness of the system of internal requires an audit tender every ten years.
The audit for the controls for the period under review and up to the year ending 31 December 2016 was tendered during the date of this report, the key element of which is a risk year.
Three audit firms were invited to tender, including the management process whereby key risks to achieving current incumbent, Deloitte.
A panel, including the Chairman our objectives and strategy as well as related controls of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director, considered and monitoring procedures in respect of those risks are written submissions and oral presentations from each of identified in a risk register.
The risk register is reviewed the firms.
Following this competitive tender process the bi-annually and updated where appropriate and reports Audit Committee recommended to the Board and the Board received from the executive on control procedures, and approved the reappointment of Deloitte for the year ending any areas for improvement are agreed for subsequent 31 December 2016.
A new audit partner will lead the audit action.
The Companys principal risks and uncertainties for the year ending 31 December 2016. are reported in the Strategic Report on pages 20 and 21 and include the judgements and uncertainties used Internal controls and risk management in determining the fair value of investment property, An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, taxation and the managing the most significant risks faced by the Group has variability of rental income as well as the availability been in place throughout the year and up to the date of of credit and over-reliance on key executives.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board regularly considers and sets the parameters under which This process is supported by: the business can operate without further or specific consideration by the Board.
That process, which accords Management structure There is a clear organisational with the Turnbull guidance and the Boards review of that structure with well-defined lines of reporting and process, is set out below.
Financial reporting There are reporting disciplines The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the including performance monitoring and profit and cash Groups system of internal controls, including the review of forecasting.
its effectiveness and suitable monitoring procedures, in Investment appraisal The Group has a clearly defined order to safeguard shareholders investment and the framework for capital and development expenditure and assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its accounting subsequent ongoing appraisals.
records and provide reliable information for use within the business and for publication.
The Directors acknowledge In addition, the key internal controls include regular that such a system is designed to manage rather than meetings of the Board and Committee whose overall eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives responsibilities are set out above.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal controls, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered necessary.
Humphrey Price Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 March 2016 32 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
