Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance framework The Company complied with the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 throughout the year.
The Company complies with the Corporate governance The Chairman and Joint Chief Executives roles statement requirements pursuant to the Financial Conduct The division of responsibilities between the role of Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue Chairman, and the roles of the Joint Chief Executives, is of the information included in this Corporate governance clearly defined, set out in writing and reviewed annually by statement on pages 26 to 28 together with information the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership contained in the Directors Report on pages 50 to 53. and effective working of the Board, ensuring that all members of the Board, including in particular the NonThe role of the Board of Directors Executive Directors, have an opportunity to contribute The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the effectively, and that there is appropriate and timely Company for the strategy and future development of the communication with shareholders.
Group and the efficient management of its resources.
As a result, the Board has a schedule of matters reserved The Board has delegated executive responsibility for for its decision, which includes approval of annual running the Group to the Joint Chief Executives who are budgets, acquisition and divestment policy, approval responsible for the strategic direction and operational and of major capital projects, the raising of finance and financial performance of the Group.
The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with the information it needs to enable it to The appointment of new Directors is a matter for the Board discharge its duties.
The Board is also kept informed of as a whole, following recommendations made by the changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial Nomination Committee.
risks, and each Director has access to independent professional advice and the advice and services of the Standing committees of the Board Company Secretary.
The Board meets at least five Audit Committee times a year with ad hoc meetings as required.
The Audit Committee comprised Humphrey Price Chairman, Richard Mully, Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Board composition Worthington until 8 June 2015 when Richard Mully retired The Board currently comprises six independent from the Board and its Committees.
Margaret Young was Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and appointed to the Committee on 14 October 2015.
The biographies of these representatives of the external auditor, Executive Directors Directors are set out on page 25 The Board is satisfied and senior management may be invited to attend the that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom is meetings.
The Committees report, including details of its independent from management and has no commercial responsibilities, is set out on pages 29 to 32. or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Melvyn Egglenton is Nomination Committee the Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination Committee comprised James Hambro Chairman, Humphrey Price, Richard Cotton and Richard All Directors, except Humphrey Price, will offer themselves Mully and any one of the Joint Chief Executives, Morgan for re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Jones and Ian Watson, at any one time until 5 May 2015, when Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Corporate governance framework continued were also appointed to the Committee.
Richard Mully Board and Committee meeting attendance retired from the Board and its Committees on 8 June The schedule below sets out the number of principal Board 2015 and Richard Cotton retired on 30 September and Committee meetings held during the year ended 2015.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the 31 December 2015 together with individual attendance by structure, size and composition of the Board and for Board Members at those meetings.
making recommendations in respect of any changes and appointments.
The Committees report, including details In addition to Board meetings, the Board held a number of of its responsibilities, is set out on pages 33 and 34. dedicated strategy sessions during the year to consider the development of the Companys strategy and business Remuneration Committee model.
In between Board meetings, the Board receives a The Remuneration Committee comprised Richard Cotton monthly performance pack containing detailed information Chairman, Melvyn Egglenton, James Hambro, Richard on the entire property portfolio.
Mully and Rebecca Worthington until 8 June 2015 when Richard Mully retired from the Board and its Committees.
Relations with shareholders Melvyn Egglenton took over as Chairman of the Committee The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional from Richard Cotton on 30 September 2015.
David Rough shareholders and analysts.
Private investors are was appointed to the Committee on 14 October 2015. also encouraged to meet with the Board and to The Committee is responsible for making recommendations participate in the Annual General Meeting.
The to the Board on all aspects of remuneration policy for Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Executive Directors.
The Committees report is set out on Committees are available to answer questions, where pages 35 to 49. appropriate, at the Annual General Meeting.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website www.
Nomination Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Committee James Hambro 8 3 5 Ian Watson 8 2 Morgan Jones 8 1 Richard Lowes 8 Melvyn Egglenton 8 3 3 5 Richard Mully 3 1 1 4 Richard Cotton 5 1 4 Humphrey Price 7 3 3 Rebecca Worthington 8 3 2 5 David Rough 2 1 Margaret Young 2 Number of meetings during the year 8 3 3 5 Richard Mully was eligible to attend three Board meetings, one Audit Committee meeting, one Nomination Committee meeting and four Remuneration Committee meetings before his retirement.
Richard Cotton was eligible to attend six Board meetings, one Nomination Committee meeting and four Remuneration Committee meetings before his retirement.
David Rough and Margaret Young were eligible to attend two Board meetings following their appointments and David Rough was also eligible to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Either of the Joint Chief Executives attends the Nomination Committee.
28 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
