Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Nomination Committee Role and responsibilities of the Committee The role of the Committee is to keep under review the composition of the Board, to plan for its refreshment, with regard to balance and structure, and to consider issues of succession.
All of the Directors are considered to be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
During the year, I was appointed Chairman of Guide Dogs for The Blind and stepped down from the Henry Smith charity.
I continue to be Chairman of James Hambro & Partners, Chairman of JO Hambro Capital Management Holdings Ltd, Director of Primary Health Properties PLC and James Hambro a Non-Executive Director of Circle Property PLC.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for a number of matters Composition of the Committee relating to the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee In particular it is responsible for: the Committee, the majority of members of which are independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the reviewing the structure, size and composition of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee Board and making recommendations to the Board with comprises James Hambro Chairman, Humphrey Price, regard to any changes required: Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington and either succession planning for Directors: of the Joint Chief Executives, Morgan Jones and Ian identifying and nominating, for Board approval, Watson, at any one time.
Richard Mully and Richard candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they Cotton were members of the Committee during the year arise: until their retirement from the Board on 8 June 2015 reviewing annually the time commitment required of and 30 September 2015 respectively.
The Company Non-Executive Directors: and Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
making recommendations to the Board regarding membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees The Committee is required, in accordance with its in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
terms of reference, to meet at least once a year.
During 2015 the Committee met three times to recommend the appointment of David Rough and Margaret Young to the Board and its Committees and then to approve its Terms of Reference for the coming year and to evaluate its performance during the year.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, reviewed in October 2015, are available on the Companys website www.
The terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors appointments are available for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting or at the Companys registered office.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Gender diversity Activities during 2015 Hansteen strives to have an equal, diverse and inclusive The Committees focus in 2015 was on the further workforce.
The Company embraces diversity and provides development of the Boards succession plan, in particular an environment where every employee has the opportunity the appointment of two additional Non-Executive Directors to achieve their full potential.
It is one of Hansteens key to join the Board.
These appointments fill the vacancy targets that people treat each other with dignity and created by the retirement of Richard Cotton in September respect.
The Board is aware of the requirement within the 2015 and the forthcoming vacancy which will arise when UK Corporate Governance Code to report on their diversity Humphrey Price retires from the Board at the Annual policy, including gender, and on any measurable objectives General Meeting in 2016.
The Committee engaged the set for implementing such a policy and the progress in services of an external executive search consultancy, meeting these.
The Board approved Hansteens diversity Lomond Consulting, which has no other relationship with and inclusion policy in 2013.
The policy is set out in the the Company, to assist in the recruitment process.
From an Employee Handbook and, as part of their induction, all new initial list of ten candidates put forward, and meeting criteria employees must confirm that they have read and agreed by the Committee, a short list of four was drawn up understood the policy.
The Boards policy on diversity, based on their level of relevant experience.
The candidates including gender, together with objectives that it has set for on the shortlist were invited to meet me and other implementing the policy, and progress on achieving these members of the Board and as a result of those discussions objectives, are set out in the Corporate and Social we welcomed David Rough and Margaret Young to the Responsibility section of the Annual Report.
Both David and Margaret strengthen the Hansteen Board with their breadth of Committee evaluation knowledge, skills and experience and I look forward to The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part working with them both to deliver Hansteens strategy.
of the internally managed Board evaluation exercise undertaken in relation to the year ended 31 December 2015 As a result of the recommendations of the Nomination and the Committee was found to be operating effectively.
Committee, Margaret Young was appointed to the Audit Committee and David Rough was appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
James Hambro Chairman of the Nomination Committee 14 March 2016 34 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015. year ended 31 December 2014 and consideration of shareholder feedback: approval of an award under the Performance Share Plan PSP to the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team: agreeing the design of, and targets for, the annual bonus scheme for the year ending 31 December 2015: review of the Committees terms of reference and performance during the year: and review of the Founder LTIP in light of three-year performance and new three-year period starting 1 January 2016.
Performance and reward Melvyn Egglenton The Groups performance during 2015 resulted in another Chairman of the Remuneration Committee record year which saw the EPRA NAV increase by 9.5p per share from 101.7p to 111.2p.
This growth was after ANNUAL STATEMENT payment of dividends of 8.1p per share making a total The primary role of the Committee is to determine and gain over the year of 17.6p per share or 17.3%.
Profit recommend to the Board the specific pay and benefits after tax of 148.2 million represented a 25% increase packages for the Executive Directors, to ensure that they over the previous year.
In this context, the Committee are fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their individual is satisfied that the level of payment under the annual contributions to the Groups overall performance.
bonus scheme for the Executive Directors is appropriate The Committees objective is to support the business 61.7% of the maximum for the Joint Chief Executives, strategy of the Group, to promote the Groups long-term 76.7% of the maximum for the Finance Director.
success and to align remuneration with shareholders returns.
The Committee also administers the Groups Base salary increases for the Executive Directors were in share incentive plans.
During the year, the Committee line with or at a level below the aggregate increase for carried out the following activities: employees across the Group.
review of the achievement of the 2014 annual bonus In respect of PSP awards with a three-year performance scheme performance measures against target: period ending 31 December 2015, under which 50% of each review of base salaries for Executive Directors: award is measured against NAV targets and 50% against approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the TSR targets, 75% of the NAV part and 0% of the TSR part is year ended 31 December 2014: expected to vest.
review of the expected award under the Founder Long Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP for the three-year In relation to the TSR targets under the PSP, Hansteen has performance period ending 31 December 2015: suffered from the relatively non-volatile nature of its share review of the final outcome of Annual General Meeting price.
In 2012 when the PSP period commenced most of the voting for the Directors Remuneration Report for the comparator group were at substantial share price discounts Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued to their NAV.
The average discount for the sector was 21% The following report has been prepared in accordance with whereas Hansteens discount was only 5%.
During the the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and following three years, those companies which had been at Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and very deep discounts rose to premiums.
Since then many of Reports Regulations 2008, as amended, and meets the the companies have fallen back to significant discounts.
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Throughout the period, Hansteens share price remained in Conduct Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
a relatively narrow band around the NAV.
The Report is presented in two main parts the Remuneration policy report and the Annual Report on The Founder LTIP was established at IPO in November Remuneration.
The Remuneration policy was approved by 2005 to recognise and reward the two Founder Directors shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 9 June for the delivery of high absolute returns over an extended 2014 and it is intended that the policy will apply for three period.
Under the scheme, if the growth in EPRA NAV years from that date.
The Remuneration Committee per share plus dividends exceeds compound growth of anticipates reviewing the Remuneration Policy in late 2016 more than 10% per annum over a three-year period, early 2017 and submitting it to the shareholders for then the Founder Directors will each receive awards in approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017. shares equivalent to 12.5% of the excess.
There have The Company does not currently comply with the been no Founder LTIP payments relating to the first two requirements for malus and clawback provisions in Section measurement periods 2006-2009 and 2010-2012.
However, D: Remuneration of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
No for the three years ended 31 December 2015 the EPRA malus and clawback provisions are in place for the Founder NAV per share for the Group, after adding back dividends LTIP or PSP schemes because these changes to the Code paid increased by 52.7p per share.
This represents a were made after the current Remuneration Policy was return of 63% or 18% per annum compound over the approved by the shareholders.
This change to the Code will period and exceeds the 10% per annum compound growth be taken into consideration at the next review of the target by 25.2p per share, equivalent to 204.8 million.
An ordinary resolution will be The participation in 12.5% of the excess performance proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on results in awards to each of the Founder Directors of 6 June 2016 to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 22.9 million shares.
The Founder Directors have agreed and this Annual Statement, both of which are subject to an to forgo part of their awards equal in value to their PAYE advisory vote.
and Employees National Insurance liabilities due on the vesting of the awards, which will be settled on their behalf by the Company.
After settlement of these PAYE liabilities and National Insurance liabilities each of the Founder Directors will be issued with 12,140,247 shares.
Melvyn Egglenton Policy for 2016 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee No changes to the structure of remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors were made in the year ended 14 March 2016 31 December 2015 and none are proposed for the year ending 31 December 2016.
36 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
