76 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Nomination and Review Committee Dear shareholder 2015 has been an important and The Committees main busy year for the Committee.
focus in 2015 was the As Chairman of the Committee it is my composition of the Board responsibility to ensure that we follow and succession planning a robust process and best governance practice whenever key decisions are taken by this Committee, in particular relating to new appointments.
The Committee was pleased to ensure that a range of suitable candidates Highlights of 2015 recommend the appointments of is taken into account when drawing up Appointment of Rakhi Parekh Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard and John shortlists.
The priority of the Committee Goss-Custard and John Strachan Strachan to the Board with effect from is to ensure that the Group continues to in October 7 October 2015.
The Board is already have the most effective Board possible Changes to Board Committee benefiting from their respective expertise and all appointments to the Board are governance in line with in digital and global real estate areas.
made on merit against objective criteria.
new appointments Advanced medium-term As a result of the changes in Directors, Board composition succession planning and intu now has 25 per cent female The Committees discussions regarding governance risk assessment representation on the Board.
The Board the composition of the Board continued is supportive of Lord Daviess aspirational to be framed by the Companys previously Members in 2015 target of 33 per cent female Board stated goal of reducing the overall size of Chairman representation by 2020.
The Committee is satisfied Patrick Burgess information regarding our diversity that the balance of skills, knowledge Chairman of the Board policy is set out below.
and experience on the Board and its Committees is appropriate following Members Responsibilities and how they were the appointment of the new NonAndrew Huntley discharged in 2015 Executive Directors in October.
The Independent Non-Executive Director The principal role of the Nomination Committee has begun the process of Louise Patten and Review Committee is to evaluate planning for the retirements at the Independent Non-Executive Director the skills available on the Board and AGM in 2017 of the Chairman and Neil Sachdev to determine when appointments and Senior Independent Director.
Independent Non-Executive Director retirements are appropriate.
Areas of focus 2016 Appointment of John Strachan C ontinued refreshing of In addition to its key responsibilities The Committee considers that John Board composition in line with set out above, the Committee is also Strachan is fully independent.
The succession plans responsible for carrying out the annual Committee has taken account of the fact Commencement of process for new performance evaluation of the Board, its that John was, until December 2015, a Chairman to be appointed in 2017 Committees and individual Directors, as partner of Cushman & Wakeeld which well as making recommendations to the is one of several real estate advisory rms Board on appointments to the Board, which carries out valuation work for intu.
including the induction programme for He continues on a limited consultancy newly appointed Directors, and on basis with Cushman & Wakeeld, serving succession planning.
as a member of the International Council of Shopping Centres.
The Committee met three times in 2015 with its main focus on the composition John has in the past provided strategic of the Board and succession planning.
advice to intu, notably in relation to the Groups entry into Spain, but he has not Statement on diversity policy had any direct involvement in valuation The Nomination and Review Committee, work carried out by Cushman & Wakeeld and the Board, recognise the importance for intu during the three years prior to of boardroom diversity and the his appointment.
Committees policy is to seek to intugroup.
co. uk Governance 77 Talent development The Board also recognises the need for Talent development is a key focus of the Directors to keep up to date with relevant Induction for new Directors Committee and a comprehensive talent legislative and regulatory developments There is a comprehensive induction and leadership development programme, as well as changes to corporate programme for new directors which is including succession planning, has been governance best practice and investor tailored by the Chairman, in consultation implemented for senior management expectations.
The Company Secretary with the Chief Executive and Company across the entire Group.
The Committee reports to each Board meeting on these Secretary, depending on the type of receives regular update reports regarding matters, drawing attention to any issues appointment.
The programme ordinarily progress and remains confident in the of particular relevance.
In addition, the includes meetings with Board members, future potential of the Groups most Company Secretary maintains an senior management and external advisers, promising executives and staff.
up-to-date comprehensive schedule as well as a high-level review of all current summarising legislative and regulatory projects, Board strategy and an in-depth Renewal of Non-Executive developments relevant to the Company review of the Groups assets.
Additional appointments and rated according to risk impact on elements are added to the programme on All Directors, other than Neil Sachdev the Group, which is available to the discussion between the Chairman and the who is stepping down, will submit Board and senior management.
themselves for election or re-election Where required, the Company Secretary at the forthcoming annual general Patrick Burgess provides guidance or facilitates the meeting in May 2016.
Chairman provision of training on Directors duties 26 February 2016 under the Companies Act 2006 and on Training and development legal, regulatory and governance matters The Chairman, with the assistance of with which the Company, Board and the Nomination and Review Committee, individual Directors must comply.
regularly considers the need for Directors to update and expand their skills and knowledge.
Training is provided for Non-Executive Directors in the form of presentations at Board meetings, as well as attendance at relevant seminars and courses.
Performance evaluation Every year, the Board conducts an evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the performance of each Director and the Senior Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The evaluation exercise conducted during 2014 identied three areas requiring attention during 2015.
Progress against those areas is shown in the table below: Areas identied for attention in 2015 Action taken Board succession planning Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard and John Strachan were appointed in the year in anticipation of forthcoming retirements from the Board Enhancing Board communication Board members have taken every opportunity to meet, formally or informally, on numerous occasions throughout the year in order to enhance communication and forge stronger relationships.
This has included additional centre visits, including to the Groups Spanish centres as further described on page 59 Risk as a standard agenda item The Audit Committee discusses risk as a standard agenda item at each meeting 2015 performance evaluation The 2015 performance evaluation was conducted by way of an internal questionnaire, with the expectation that the 2016 evaluation will be conducted by an external facilitator.
The key points identied in 2015 formed the basis for recommendations which the Board used to establish a specic action plan for 2016.
The main areas covered by the action plan are: succession and development planning planning for the forthcoming retirement of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Nomination and Review Committee increase in number of meetings and Board succession as a standard agenda item Board Committees review of Board Committees terms of reference, and in particular a review of the interaction between the Capital Projects Committee and the Board
