62 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Executive Committee Kate Bowyer Director of Finance Joined the Group in 2000 as Group Financial Controller and managed the Groups investor relations from 2008 until 2014.
She was appointed Director of Finance in August 2014.
Kate qualied as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now  in 1995, working intheir Canadian and corporate finance practices.
Martin Breeden Development Director Joined the Group in 2002 and was appointed Group Development Director and a member of the Executive Committee in January 2016.
Martin has direct responsibility for intus development programme across the UK and intus Spanish business.
Martin has worked on almost all of intus assets and has over 25 years experience in the retail property industry.
He is a fellow of the RICS and a member of the advisory panel of the British Council of Shopping Centres.
Hugh Ford General Counsel & Group Treasurer Joined the Group as General Counsel in 2003.
Appointed General Counsel & Group Treasurer in April 2015.
Previously he was General Manager Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and before that a commercial lawyer with British Airways plc.
He qualied as a solicitor in 1992 with Freshelds.
Susan MarsdenGroup Company Secretary Joined the Group as Company Secretary in 2000.
A fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, Susan began her career at the London Stock Exchange, and has been company secretary of two FTSE real estate sector companies before joining intu.
Trevor Pereira Digital and Commercial Director Joined the Group in 2007 as Commercial Director, Capital Shopping Centres plc.
He was subsequently appointed Group Digital and Commercial Director, responsible for digital activities, commercialisation, marketing and customer experience.
Previously worked for airport Group BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as Retail and Commercial Director for Heathrow Airport.
Dushyant SangarCorporate Development Director Joined the Group in 2010 and appointed Corporate Development Director and a member of the Executive Committee in 2014.
He has been closely involved in all of the Groups major acquisitions and new joint ventures in the UK and Spain.
He previously worked for MGPA, a real estate private equity investment advisory business and for UBS.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Prozone Intu Properties Limited.
Executive management team Julian Wilkinson Asset Management Director Appointed Group Asset Management Director and a member of the Executive Committee in January 2016, Julian has responsibility for Biographies of the executive management optimising the performance of intus shopping centres.
He has held team are available on our website at: similar positions at director level over the last 25 years on behalf of intugroup.
co. uk who-we-are our-people both retailers and landlords.
