60 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Patrick Burgess OBE, DL John Whittaker Adle Anderson Age 50 Chairman Deputy Chairman Age 71 Age 73 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 22 February 2013 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Deputy Non-Executive Director of the Group in 2001 Chairman and a Non-Executive Director Career: Adle Anderson commenced her career at KPMG where she became a partner and held a and Chairman on 1 August 2008 on 28 January 2011 number of senior roles, including Chief Financial Career: Patrick Burgess qualied as a solicitor in Career: John Whittaker is the Chairman of the Officer.
She is currently Chairman of the Audit 1972 and became a partner in Gouldens in 1974, Peel Group which he founded in 1971 and developed Committee of easyJet plc and a trustee of Save serving as head of the Corporate Department for into a leading UK infrastructure, transport and the Children UK.
14 years and as senior partner for six, culminating real estate enterprise.
with the merger of Gouldens with Jones Day in 2003, Skills and experience: Adle graduated from Skills and experience: John is a highly regarded real Kent University with BSc Hons in mathematics from which he retired in 2007.
He stepped down as estate investor, and has overseen the growth of the a Non-Executive Director of ICBC Standard Bank and computer science.
She is a qualied ACA Peel Group across many sectors such as land, real and has gained extensive financial experience in October 2015.
He has also been active in a number estate, ports, airports, renewable energy and media.
of charitable and community organisations.
throughout her career and has significant Audit John is an experienced property developer and Committee experience.
Skills and experience: At Jones Day, Patrick business leader illustrated by projects such specialised in mergers and acquisitions and corporate as The Trafford Centre and MediacityUK.
His Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc: a member of the board of trustees restructuring.
He has considerable experience in appointment to the Board followed the acquisition compliance, regulatory and stock exchange matters.
by intu of The Trafford Centre from the Peel Group.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Other appointments: None.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Peel Group.
Chairman of the Capital Projects Committee, Chairman of the Nomination and Review Committee, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee David Fischel Matthew Roberts Louise Patten Age 62 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Age 57 Age 52 Non-Executive Director on 22 September 2011 Appointed to the Board: Appointed Finance Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Finance Career: Louise Patten began her career at Citibank, Director in 1988, Managing Director in 1992 Director on 3 June 2010 and Chief Executive in March 2001 working mainly in retail financial services until she Career: Matthew Roberts was previously the Finance joined global strategy advisers Bain & Company Inc in Career: David Fischel qualied as a chartered Director of Debenhams plc from 1996 to 2003, and 1993 where since 1997 she has been a senior adviser.
accountant in 1983 at Touche Ross & Co before Chief Financial Officer of Gala, subsequently Gala Skills and experience: Louise has extensive Board joining the Group in 1985.
Coral Group Ltd, from 2004 to 2008. level experience at a number of retail and property Skills and experience: At Touche Ross, David Skills and experience: Matthew Roberts FCA companies including as Chairman of Brixton plc worked in the corporate finance department with joined intu as Finance Director in May 2010 and was and interim Chairman of Somereld plc, and experience in acquisitions, otations and capital part of the team which acquired The Trafford Centre, Non-Executive roles at Marks and Spencer plc, raisings.
During his 30-year career with intu, Manchester, in the UKs largest ever single property where she chaired the Remuneration Committee, David has gained significant executive experience transaction.
In spring 2013 he led the establishment GUS plc, Hilton Group plc, Harveys Furnishings plc in numerous aspects of the shopping centre of intus secured Group structure with initial issue of and Control Risks Group.
industry including shopping centre acquisitions and 1.15 billion of bond and bank debt.
Since then he Other appointments: Non-Executive Director developments.
He has also been closely involved has led a series of further transactions which have with the Groups corporate development including raised over 2 billion of leverage.
equity and debt nancings and a wide range of other Matthew also assumed responsibility for intus Chairman of the Remuneration Committee corporate transactions, including the 2010 demerger centre-based operations, while retaining his of Capital & Counties from intu.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Prozone Intu Properties Limited, resigned as a Non-Executive Director of Equity One, Inc NYSE: EQY with effect 19 January 2016.
Chairman of the Executive Committee intugroup.
co. uk Governance 61 Board of Directors Key to Committees Audit Committee Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Nomination and Review Committee Capital Projects Committee Richard Gordon Andrew Huntley Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard Age 57 Age 77 Age 41 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in May 2010 Non-Executive Director on 8 July 2009 and Non-Executive Director on 7 October 2015.
Senior Independent Director with effect from Career: Richard Gordon previously served as a Career: Rakhis early career included roles at 1 August 2013 Non-Executive Director of Capital Shopping Centres TomTom, content management provider Article27 plc between 1996 and 2006 and was appointed as Career: Andrew Huntleys career commenced and 11 years at Amazon until 2014, where she an alternate Director in respect of Graeme Gordons some 41 years ago with Richard Ellis where he held a number of key roles including responsibility Directorship of the Group in 2001. served as Chairman from 1993 until 2002.
He was for the Amazon UK Media category.
a Non-Executive Director of Pillar Property plc Skills and experience: Richard has also served on Skills and experience: Rakhi has an up-to-date from 2000 to 2005 and a Non-Executive Director the boards of a number of companies within the perspective on retail and consumer trends, as of LondonMetric Property plc from 2010 until 2013.
Liberty Life Group and various companies within the well as deep insight and knowledge of the digital commercial and residential real estate sector, mainly Skills and experience: Andrew is a chartered environment.
Rakhi has a BA in marketing and in South Africa.
surveyor and an experienced property adviser.
communications from the University of Pennsylvania.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Capital & Counties Properties plc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Rightmove plc.
Non-Executive Director at Be Heard Group plc.
With effect 1 February 2016, a Non-Executive Director of Kingsher plc.
Neil Sachdev John Strachan Andrew Strang Age 57 Age 65 Age 63 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in November 2006.
Non-Executive Director on 7 October 2015 Non-Executive Director on 8 July 2009.
Neil will step down from the Board at the Career: John was Global Head of Retail Services Career: Andrew Strang started his career with 2016 annual general meeting in May.
at Cushman and Wakeeld until December 2015.
He served as Managing Career: Neil Sachdev joined Tesco plc in 1978, rising Johns career commenced at Healey and Baker in Director of Threadneedle Property Investments to the position of Property Director before joining J 1972 where he rose to become head of UK and Limited for 17 years until January 2008.
He was Sainsbury plc as Commercial Director in March 2007.
Healey and Baker Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment He was subsequently appointed Property Director was acquired by Cushman and Wakeeld in 2000.
He was a Director in June 2010 and he held this position until leaving of the British Property Federation from 1994 to Skills and experience: John brings a wealth of J Sainsbury plc in March 2014.
He is a current member of the Norges Bank experience from the retail property sector, an the Institute of Grocery Distribution until April 2014.
Investment Management real estate advisory international perspective including extensive board, a member of the investment and governance Skills and experience: Neil has an MBA from Stirling knowledge of the Spanish retail property market.
committees at AEW UK and he was appointed as University and has gained significant experience in He is known for his creative and entrepreneurial Director of The Pollen Estate Trustee Company retail and property matters throughout his career.
approach to developing new business opportunities.
Limited between August 2014 and January 2016.
Other appointments: Deputy Chairman of HSS He is a fellow of the Royal Institution of Skills and experience: Andrew is a chartered Hire Group plc.
Chairman of Martins Property Chartered Surveyors.
surveyor and has substantially focused on Limited and Market Tech Holdings Limited.
Director Other appointments: Advisory Board member property investment throughout his career.
of Barleygold Limited, Clevertec Limited, and Sixth of Truecap Private Equity: a member of the European Sense Partnership Limited.
Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Executive Committee and Advisory Board of the of NHS Property Services Limited.
Council Member of Capital & Counties Properties plc.
International Council of Shopping Centres.
of the University of Warwick.
