co. uk Governance 63 The Board The role of the Board and its Committees Led by the Chairman, the Board takes primary responsibility for dening the Groups strategic objectives, risk appetite and controls environment: for monitoring delivery of strategy by the Executive The Board Directors: and for shaping the resourcing, culture and values by which the wider business delivers targeted performance.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Chairman Chairman Adle Anderson Louise Patten Chairman Members Members Patrick Burgess Neil Sachdev, Andrew Strang, Adle Anderson, Neil Sachdev, Members Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard Andrew Huntley Andrew Huntley, Neil Sachdev, Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Louise Patten Monitors the integrity ofnancial Sets remuneration policy for Key responsibilities statements, internal controls and all Executive Directors and the Ensures that the Board is risk management process and Chairman and recommends comprised of individuals with reviews the effectiveness of the and monitors the level and an appropriate balance of skills, internal and external auditors.
structure of remuneration knowledge and experience.
See page 72 for more See page 78 for more See page 76 for more information information information Capital Projects Committee Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Patrick Burgess Chairman David Fischel Members Patrick Burgess Members John Whittaker, David Fischel, Members Matthew Roberts, Kate Bowyer, Matthew Roberts, Andrew Huntley, David Fischel, Neil Sachdev, Martin Breeden, Hugh Ford, Neil Sachdev Alexander Nicoll CR Director, Susan Marsden, Trevor Pereira, Key responsibilities Jennifer Sandars Helen Drury Dushyant Sangar, Julian Wilkinson Reviews new projects and project CR Manager Key responsibilities expenditure in detail and, as Key responsibilities Considers investment proposals, appropriate, comments on certain Oversees the management of reviews progress on projects and projects forthe Board.
Has no power the Groups CR activities.
project expenditure in detail and to approve proposals orauthorise receives updates on other business expenditure.
Has delegated authority, The Capital Projects Committee within limits, to authorise initiatives is not a formal Committee of and expenditure.
The Executive Committee is not a formal Committee of the Board.
See page 52 for more See left for more information information 64 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 The Board continued The Board Structure of the Board Board culture and independence The business model described on pages 28 The intu Board and its workings are and 29 illustrates the key value creation and characterised by the strong relationships Board structure operational drivers for intus strategy and between individual Directors and the senior the means by which the Board ultimately executives.
Those relationships have been Chairman 1 delivers long-term growth and sustainable formed over several years of collaborative Executives 2 returns for its shareholders and working, with very few changes to the Boards Non-Executives 9 debt investors.
composition or key positions necessary prior to the new appointments announced in October.
Appropriate and effective corporate governance is taken seriously at intu The Chairman is directly accountable for the and is intrinsic to all aspects of the culture of the Board, which is dened by a Board independence excludingChairman Boards activities.
conservative, measured approach to business, allied to a willingness to take considered risks The Board has therefore established a Executives 2 through investment to achieve strategic goals, governance framework which underpins Non-Executiv es 7 as demonstrated by intus strategic growth in the culture and workings of the Group.
This framework consists of: The Boards culture permeates through the committees with specic delegated Groups operations, with a comprehensive responsibilities as shown in the diagram suite of policies to reinforce the open dialogue on page 63 Gender split between management and staff and tone set delegated authority limits, which by Board members.
apply at all levels of the business and Men 9 are incorporated into the standard Board processes have been rened over many Women 3 procedures for the execution of all years of consistent application, and are leases, licences, contracts and other consequently now well understood with very relevant documentation by the Group high levels of adherence.
The Boards culture internal policies, procedures and and thinking nevertheless remain reective of controls including delegated authority the Groups values, which encourage all staff limits and a related parties protocol to be creative, bold and genuine at all times.
Length of tenure of Directors which are regularly reported on, reviewed and updated by the 0 3 years 2 Board and relevant committees 3 6 years 5 internal processes which are 6 9 years 2 communicated to all staff and are 9 years 3 available at all times on the Groups intranet site The Boards culture permeates through Our approach to CR The Groups approach to corporate the Groups operations, responsibility is a key element of its to reinforce the open governance framework.
We have consistently demonstrated a strong dialogue between commitment to high standards of management and staff corporate responsibility, particularly focused on the local communities where Patrick Burgess our shopping centres are embedded.
Chairman Further details of our related activities can be found in the CR report on pages 52 to 55 intugroup.
co. uk Governance 65 Roles and responsibilities Overview Role Responsibility Chairman Patrick Burgess Leading the Board, setting its agenda, achieving clarity of decision-making, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its remit and heading up the culture of accountability Chief Executive David Fischel Delivery of the Group strategy, primary accountability for day-to-day operational management, implementation of the policies and strategies developed by the Board, and developing the abilities and skills of the Groups personnel to their maximum potential Chief Financial Matthew Roberts Responsibility for the Groups funding strategy, nancing, reporting and investor Officer programme, encompassing leadership of the finance function.
From January 2016 also responsible for intus centre-based operations Non-Executive Louise Patten, Adle Anderson, Bring an external and independent view to the Boards discussions, providing Directors Neil Sachdev, Andrew Strang, constructive challenge to executive management when appropriate John Whittaker, Andrew Huntley Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard, John Strachan, Richard Gordon Senior Independent Andrew Huntley Provides advice and additional support and experience to the Chairman as required, Director and is available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary Alternate Directors Steven Underwood, Ensure that key strategic and operational decision-making is best aligned with the Raymond Fine interests of the Groups major shareholders Non-Independent Directors Roles of the Chairman required, and is available to act as an and Chief Executive intu has two representatives of different intermediary for the other directors if The roles of the Chairman Patrick Burgess, significant shareholders appointed necessary.
Andrew also leads the appraisal and of the Chief Executive David Fischel, are to non-executive board positions, including of the Chairmans performance annually in separate and have been dened in writing the Deputy Chairman John Whittaker.
Those discussion with the other Non-Executive by the Board.
In summary, the Chairmans representatives are also permitted to appoint Directors, and is available as an additional responsibilities include leading the Board, alternate directors in accordance with the point of contact for shareholders should they setting its agenda, achieving clarity of decision Companys Articles of Association.
feel that communication through the normal making and ensuring its effectiveness on channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Direct shareholder Board representation all aspects of its remit.
He also ensures Secretariat or Investor Relations teams has ensures that key strategic, operational and that the Board maintains effective two-way failed or is otherwise inappropriate.
governance decision making is shaped with communication with shareholders and senior input from those individuals, and is more During the year the Nomination and Review management and holds the management closely aligned with the interests of both the Committee decided to extend Andrews to account.
direct shareholder groups they represent term of appointment as Senior Independent The Chief Executives key responsibilities and other institutional and retail investors Director for a further 12 months, through to include delivery of the Group strategy, primary generally.
In this respect the Group surpasses the 2017 annual general meeting.
Andrew, in accountability for day-to-day operational the expectations of the stewardship code.
his capacity as Senior Independent Director, management, implementation of the policies is expected to play a leading role in planning However, the representative directors also and strategies developed by the Board, and managing the Chairmans succession.
contribute strongly to the Boards culture and and developing the abilities and skills of the Alternate Directors personality, adding insight and inuence from Groups personnel to their maximum potential.
John Whittaker and Richard Gordon, their varied commercial backgrounds, their Non-Executive Directors both significant shareholders, have experience and expertise.
We discuss the The Non-Executive Directors bring an external appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond rigorous Board policies and enhanced and independent view to the Boards Fine respectively as their alternates under processes the Board operates to manage discussions, providing constructive challenge the terms of the Companys Articles potential conicts of interest arising from to executive management when appropriate.
The Board has generally these relationships in a specic case study Biographical details of each Director are set invited the Alternate Directors to attend on page 66 of this report.
The Senior Independent Director The presence of John and Richard in person Andrew Huntley was appointed as Senior on the Board ensures that key strategic and Independent Director in August 2013.
In his operational decision making is best aligned role, Andrew provides advice and additional with the interests of all the Groups support and experience to the Chairman as significant shareholders.
66 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 The Board continued Matters reserved for the Board These include, but are not limited to: In part, this examination and review Responsibility for day-to-day operational process is dealt with by the Board and management of the Group is delegated all matters relating to strategy other Committees as mentioned on by the Board to the Executive Directors, the application of the Board protocol page 63. the Executive Committee, and senior for dealing with related party matters management.
Aspects of these delegated dividend payments and policy Communication between powers are supported by delegated major acquisitions and disposals, Board meetings authority limits which are documented other capital expenditure and controls Directors are kept fully informed of and kept under review by the Board.
r isk management progress on key matters, including Certain matters have been reserved solely regulatory matters, including material operational and financial performance, for decision by the whole Board and a shareholder communications between formal meetings.
This is in schedule setting out a list of these is particular achieved by way of either reviewed regularly.
The Board also receives regular reports scheduled conference calls or less formal on the proceedings of its Committees and update meetings each month when there considers their recommendations.
It has is not a formal Board meeting.
Ad hoc been the Boards custom over many years meetings and working visits to centres to ensure that major decisions are taken are also regularly arranged to support after a reiterative process which involves the Chairmans policy of open examination and review at several levels.
As the Chairman Board: Related party protocol Given the presence of representative directors John Whittaker followed all aspects of the The Group completed two transactions on the Board, intu has a specic Board Board protocol for both transactions with with subsidiaries of the Peel Group in 2015. protocol for related party matters.
The first involved the exercise in May of an procedures require all Directors to report option granted by Peel to intu in 2012, all contingent, potential or actual conicts In accordance with the requirements of the under which a site for a prime retail and of interest and to recuse themselves from Companies Act 2006, the Group also sought leisure resort in Mlaga, Spain, was acquired Board discussions when appropriate.
shareholder approval prior to completion of for development.
The second, in November, both the Mlaga option and the KGV West involved a lease for commercial use from The governance procedures also require lease, and shareholders overwhelmingly intu to Peel for a 30.96 acre site, known as independent verication and, for property supported the proposed transactions at KGV West, which neighbours the Groups transactions, the Groups real estate specically convened general meetings intu Braehead centre.
advisers are asked to provide written during the year.
independent third-party validation for the proposed valuation.
intus proposed Mlaga development An impression of the plans for the acquired land Lease secured for KGV site, Braehead An aerial image of the KGV West site for which the lease was agreed in 2015 intugroup.
co. uk Governance 67 explains on page 59, this has been an The Chairman and Company Secretary The Board reviews the independence area of focus in 2015.
The Chairmen of ensure that all Directors are provided with of its Non-Executive Directors on an the Audit Committee and Remuneration fully accurate and timely information to annual basis.
With the exception of Committee communicate regularly with facilitate informed discussion at Board John Whittaker and Richard Gordon, relevant staff and external advisers, meetings.
The Chairman is particularly both representatives of significant including but not limited to the Head mindful that the views of all Directors shareholders, the Board has concluded that all other Non-Executive Directors of Risk and Internal Audit, the Company should be taken into consideration and continue to demonstrate their Secretary and the Remuneration that the range of experience of our independence and commitment Committees consultants, Deloitte.
Non-Executive Directors must be drawn to their roles.
The balance of the upon to provide insight and alternative Board is illustrated on page 64.
Effectiveness perspectives to aid the Boards decisions Balance, composition and culture on key strategic matters.
The Nomination and Review Committee regularly reviews the balance including Board meetings skills and experience and composition of The attendance of Directors at all Board meetings held in 2015 is set out in the the Board to ensure that it operates table below: efficiently.
The Board determined that new candidates for the role of nonBoard attendance table 2015 executive director should have sector relevant qualications and experience, Nomination 1 Board Audit & Review Remuneration notably in property, retail, finance and 2 4 2 4 Patrick Burgess 4 4 4 4 3 3 5 6 digital to ensure that these areas of John Whittaker 4 4 importance to intu are well represented.
4 4 4 David Fischel 4 4 4 4 3 3 6 6 4 Those criteria were applied to the Matthew Roberts 4 4 4 4 appointment of Rakhi Parekh GossAndrew Huntley 3 4 3 3 1 1 2 4 Custard and John Strachan during the Adle Anderson 4 4 4 4 3 3 6 6 year, who bring experience of digital Richard Gordon 4 4 strategy and global real estate markets 5 Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard 0 1 0 0 to the Board.
3 Louise Patten 3 4 3 3 6 6 3 Neil Sachdev 4 4 4 4 3 3 5 6 In November the Board approved John Strachan 1 1 the following committee changes, in Andrew Strang 4 4 4 4 anticipation of Neil Sachdev stepping 1 S cheduled Board meetings only, excludes Board away day, Spanish centres visit and calendar down from all positions with the Group of Board update conference calls.
at the 2016 AGM: Louise Patten and 2 Board or Committee chair.
3 Louise Patten assumed the Committee chair with effect from 9 November 2015 from Neil Sachdev.
Andrew Huntley were appointed as 4 Attends meetings in a non-voting capacity.
Chairman and as an additional member 5 Unavailable for Board meeting immediately following appointment, due to prior commitment.
of the Remuneration Committee respectively, and Rakhi Parekh The Board meets regularly during the course of the year and met a total of four times in 2015.
Goss-Custard was appointed as a There were four scheduled meetings as well as a Board away day focused on strategy and member of the Audit Committee.
No unscheduled meetings were held during the year as there were no matters arising between the scheduled meetings which needed to be dealt with at short notice.
The appropriate balance of skills, At each scheduled meeting, the Executive Directors, the Chief Operating Officer and the Digital independence, experience and knowledge and Commercial Director, Trevor Pereira, each give reports on their key areas of responsibility.
does not in itself ensure the efficient In addition, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees operation of a Board.
To this end, the give updates on the workings of and progress made by those Committees, highlighting any Chairmans style and leadership of the areas requiring escalation to, or consideration by, the full Board.
Other matters for discussion Board are essential to creating an are added to the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or discussed at additionally convened environment where the Non-Executive Board meetings, as required.
Directors are able to draw on their own Key matters discussed approved by the Board in 2015 experience to constructively challenge A summary of the key matters discussed and approved by the Board in 2015 can be found the views of the executive management.
with the Chairmans introduction on page 58.
Read more on page 64 68 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 The Board continued Time commitment, external activities The Board has adopted a formal and conicts of interest procedure for the identication of Non-Executive Directors are generally conicts under which Directors must appointed for a three-year term and their notify the Chairman of any potential continuing service thereafter is subject conicts.
The Chairman then decides to review by the Board.
Their annual time whether a conict exists and commitment varies according to their recommends its authorisation by the membership of Board Committees and Board where appropriate.
In certain the specic corporate activities of the circumstances, the conicted Director business in any given year.
The terms may be required to recuse himself from of appointment of the Non-Executive the Boards discussions on a matter in Directors set out minimum expectations which he or she is conicted.
Directors with regard to preparation for and must also notify the Chairman when they attendance at all Board meetings, take on any additional responsibilities Board Committee meetings wherever or external appointments, and it is Strategic focus appropriate, ad hoc meetings and the their responsibility to ensure that such CPPIB joint venture annual Board away day.
Non-Executive appointments will not prevent them In June 2015, the Group announced it had Directors are required to confirm on from meeting the time commitments agreed to introduce CPPIB as a 50 per cent accepting their appointment, and discussed above.
joint venture partner of Puerto Venecia, annually, that they are able to allocate Zaragoza.
This followed intus acquisition of sufficient time to meet the expectations In addition, the Board has implemented the centre for 451 million in January 2015. of their role.
a related party protocol for situations The transaction required that intu develop where a proposed transaction could be new governance arrangements for the The terms of appointment for each of the captured by the related party provisions operation of thecentre with CPPIB.
Non-Executive Directors are available for of the Listing Rules or by the Companies To facilitate completion of the transaction inspection at the Companys registered Act 2006, and maintains accurate records in September 2015, the Board agreed to office, or on written request from the of all actual and potential related party complete a listing of the asset management Company Secretary.
transactions involving Directors and their holding company, Zaragoza Properties connected persons or associates.
Further SOCIMI S. A. as a Spanish real estate Directors have a statutory duty under the detail on the protocol can be found on investment trust on the Mercado Alternativo Companies Act 2006 to avoid situations in page 66.
The complex which they have or may be deemed to listing application, and associated Spanish have interests that conict with those structuring transactions related to CPPIBs of intu, including when a Director takes investment, were both led by our Company up a position with another company.
The Secretary, Susan Marsden, working in obligations are relaxed wherever the conjunction with the Groups Spanish conict is first authorised by the Board.
legal advisers, Linklaters, and the listing sponsor, Renta4.
As a result intu now complies with obligations across three separate jurisdictional listings in London, Johannesburg and Madrid.
Susan is pictured The appointment opening trading at the MAB exchange in Madrid in September.
of Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard and John Strachan bring additional experience of digital strategy and global real estate markets to the Board
