72 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Audit Committee Dear shareholder Responsibilities The Audit Committees key As the Chairman of the Audit Committee responsibilities are to monitor and review: it is my role to present to you the Audit Committee report for 2015. the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of The Committee has this year continued the significant financial reporting to focus on risk management, particularly judgements and accounting policies in relation to the evolving digital the effectiveness of the Groups environment, our partners and joint internal control and risk management ventures and our expanding operations the effectiveness of the internal in Spain.
The Committee has carried out audit function, including the a comprehensive risk review with the work programme undertaken Key Matters of 2015 results also presented to and discussed by the function cybersecurity with the full Board.
The Groups approach the Groups policy on whistleblowing international operations to risk management is described in detail the Groups overall approach partners and joint ventures on pages 70 and 71 and the principal to monitoring areas of risk v iability statement risks are detailed on pages 37 to 39. the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including Members in 2015 Following our annual review of auditor its independence Chairman quality and independence see page 74 Adle Anderson for more detail, we have recommended Main activities during the year Independent Non-Executive Director that  PwC The Audit Committee considered the Members be reappointed for the 2016 audit.
following key matters in 2015: Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard Independent Non-Executive Director The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 the Groups investment property Neil Sachdev and Audit Directive 2014 56 EU become valuation process Independent Non-Executive Director applicable from 17 June 2016 and must the Groups cybersecurity plans Andrew Strang be implemented in the UK by the same accounting treatment of the most Independent Non-Executive Director date.
These limit the length of tenure significant transactions in the year an audit rm can serve and put in place including the acquisition of Puerto Areas of focus in 2016 requirements for the audit tender Venecia and subsequent creation developments process.
PwC has been intus audit of a joint venture with CPPIB international operations rm for more than 20 years and a tender financial control of Spanish businesses partners and joint ventures process will be carried out to coincide the 2015 internal audit plan and with the end of the current audit partners audit charter five-year tenure such that a new audit the new viability statement rm will be in place for the year ending discussion on the appropriateness of 31 December 2018. those items classied as exceptional in the year and therefore excluded Adle Anderson from underlying earnings Chairman of the Audit Committee the results of a review of the carrying 26 February 2016 value of the Groups investment in Prozone the Groups counter-terrorism approach intugroup.
co. uk Governance 73 Key financial reporting and These issues were discussed by the significant judgements Committee following nalisation Fair, balanced and understandable During the year the Committee of the audit.
At the request of the Board, the Committee discussed the planning, progress and considered whether the 2015 annual report final conclusions of the external audit The Committee takes into account was fair, balanced and understandable process.
The audit plan was reviewed the views of the external auditor in and whether it provided the necessary and approved at the July 2015 Committee understanding and assessing whether information for shareholders to assess meeting.
The significant risk areas suitable accounting policies have been intus performance, business model, identied were: investment property adopted, whether management has position and strategy.
As part of its valuations: revenue recognition: and made appropriate estimates and considerations the Committee took into management override of controls.
judgements and whether disclosures account the preparation process detailed International Standards on Auditing are balanced and fair.
The main issues below which, together with opinions of key UK and Ireland identify these latter discussed by the Committee in the executives and the external auditor, has two risks as significant for all companies.
year are detailed in the table below.
been designed to assist the Audit Committee in reaching its view: Issue Action taken at an early stage, a matrix is produced For the interim results at 30 June the Audit Committee carried out a review Valuation of identifying key themes and the of the investment property valuations.
The full Board carried out a review investment sections in which those themes of the 31 December valuations included in this report.
and development should be reected property Due to the overall importance of the valuations to the Groups results, individual sections of the annual the relevant Audit Committee and Board meetings included a presentation report are drafted by appropriate from Cushman & Wakeeld as part of the discussions considering the senior management with regular valuation process.
review meetings to ensure consistency The Audit Committee review included discussion with management and across the whole document the auditor of the key assumptions and results of the valuation process undertaken by the independent third party valuers.
a verication process is undertaken to ensure that information contained This review also included understanding which general factors had inuenced is appropriately supported and the valuers in concluding on appropriate yields to use in the valuations.
This involved factors affecting both the investment and occupier markets and factually accurate recent comparable market transactions.
detailed reviews of drafts of the annual Particular emphasis was given to understanding the factors that had resulted report are undertaken by members of in individual property valuations being either signicantly above or below the Executive Committee and other the average movement in the Groups valuations.
senior management Presentation of Operating through joint ventures is a core part of intus strategy.
drafts are discussed with the Groups Management both review and monitor the business, including the Groups information legal advisors and brokers share of joint ventures, on an individual line basis not on a post-tax profit or a final draft is reviewed by the Audit net investment basis.
The gures and commentary presented in the strategic report have therefore been presented consistently with this management Committee and discussed with senior approach.
Reconciliations between the management and statutory bases management prior to consideration are provided in the other information section on pages 164 to 166. by the Board The Committee has reviewed the prominence given to both statutory information and information on a management basis, and concluded that the As a result of its considerations the approach adopted provides the most useful analysis of the results for the Committee is satisfied that, taken year.
as a whole, the annual report is fair, Going concern The Companys going concern review which is based on an 18-month cash balanced and understandable and has ow projection with particular focus on the next 12 months, was discussed with management.
The projections cover the major trading cash ows, being recommended as such to the Board.
rental income and interest expense, and capital expenditure plans in the context of the latest debt maturity prole.
Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering reductions in net rental income levels and the value of the Groups properties and what impact such changes may have on both the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the financial covenants on its debt facilities.
The discussion also considered what actions were available to the Group to mitigate the impact of such reductions on the cash ow projections.
Following discussions with management, the Committee agreed with the conclusions reached and the treatments relating to the above issues adopted in these financial statements.
Viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period statement than that required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting.
The viability statement is included on page 71 and sets out the conclusion of that assessment.
The Audit Committee assessed the viability position and reported its recommendations to the Board.
74 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Audit Committee continued External auditor The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 and Details of the amounts paid to the external The Audit Committee has assessed Audit Directive 2014 56 EU become auditor for audit and non-audit services the effectiveness of the external auditor, applicable from 17 June 2016 and must are included in note 9 to the financial PwC, in line with the approach set out in be implemented in the UK by the same statements.
The Company engaged PwC the Financial Reporting Councils Audit date.
The above plans are in line with the to carry out certain non-audit work in 2015 Quality Practice Aid.
In carrying out their requirements of these.
including assurance services in respect of evaluation the Audit Committee has held the Groups 2015 interim report and A resolution to reappoint PwC for the discussions without the auditor, asked the work associated with the listing of Puerto 2016 audit will be proposed at the 2016 auditor to explain the risks to audit quality Venecia, Zaragoza as a SOCIMI in Spain.
that they have identied and their The above safeguards were adhered to rm-wide controls relied upon, enquired The Committee will continue to review when awarding this non-audit work and about the findings from internal and the effectiveness and independence of PwC were chosen for the work on Puerto external inspections of their audit, probed PwC each year.
Venecia as this primarily related to and challenged the auditors strategy and producing interim review reports for the plan and discussed the outputs of the Non-audit services entities in the structure.
Fees paid to PwC audit with the auditor.
This included direct The Group has a policy to ensure that in respect of non-audit work represented meetings, review of reporting issued by the provision of any non-audit services 15 per cent of the total fees paid.
During the external auditor and review of by the incumbent external auditor 2015 the Group used accounting rms other independent reports: does not impair the external auditors than PwC for a number of assignments.
senior finance staff reviewed the The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 detailed execution of the 2014 audit The Audit Committee has considered the and Audit Directive 2014 56 EU, which plan with the engagement team and option of putting material non-audit work come into force on 17 June 2016, impose identied specic improvements out to tender.
While recognising that the restrictions on certain non-audit services.
for the 2015 plan circumstances of a particular transaction A number of non-audit services will be the report of the Financial Reporting may make it most sensible to use the prohibited and others will require approval Council FRC s May 2015 Audit Quality incumbent external auditor for such work by the Audit Committee.
There will be Inspection review of PwC was reviewed for example where the nature of the an overall fee limit of 70 per cent of the and found to be supportive of the rms transaction would not allow a new rm average of audit fees charged in the past overall systems of quality control sufficient time to assimilate the requisite three years, though this and other rules are the Chairman of the Audit Committee knowledge of the Groups operations in expected to be subject to transitional and the Chief Financial Officer each order to carry out the non-audit work, arrangements and it is anticipated that met privately with a senior partner the Audit Committee has recommended non-audit services required under EU or of PwC unrelated to the engagement that non-audit work should be undertaken national regulation will be excluded from shortly after the publication by someone other than the external this test.
Further to recent consultations of the Groups annual report to auditor wherever practical.
the UK regulator is expected to release the review the performance of the rm final text on the implementation of these the Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee has delegated to directives in the UK in the second quarter audit plan provided by PwC, including the Executive Directors the authority to of 2016. intus current policy on non-audit the risks identied and its approach contract for non-audit services with the services set out above continues in force to these external auditor subject to observing for the time being.
As soon as there is certain guidelines including: The Company has complied with the more clarity on the new regulations, and provisions of The Statutory Audit Services in particular which services are impacted, Executive Directors have the authority for Large Companies Market Investigation intu will review its policy and make any to commission the external auditor Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender necessary amendments to comply with to undertake non-audit work up to a Processes and Audit Committee the new rules.
specified value Responsibilities Order 2014 and in doing the Executive Directors must consider The table below summarises the fees paid so has applied the transitional provisions whether the proposed arrangements to auditors over the last three years.
The related to the audit tender process.
PwC will maintain audit independence three-year average ratio of non-audit fees has been intus audit rm for more than the external auditor must satisfy to audit fees is 109 per cent.
The higher 20 years without a formal tender process the Company that it is acting levels of non-audit fees in 2013 and 2014 having been completed in recent years.
independently principally related to reporting accountant A tender process will be carried out to coincide with the end of the current audit 2015 2014 2013 partners five-year tenure such that a new 000 000 000 audit rm will be in place for the year Audit fees 628 566 370 ending 31 December 2018.
Non-audit fees 96 1,034 573 Total fees paid to auditors 724 1,640 943 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 15% 190% 155% intugroup.
co. uk Governance 75 work in respect of raising debt and the post-acquisition review of Puerto Audit Committee effectiveness 2014 rights issue.
This analysis does not Venecia, Zaragoza, information and As part of the Board evaluation process, remove certain non-audit fees which may communication technology change the Audit Committee reviewed its own be excluded from the calculation of the management, valuations, construction effectiveness and this confirmed that ratio when it comes into force in 2016. and development, treasury and antithe Committee remained effective at terrorism processes.
Additionally, annual meeting its objectives.
Risk management and assurance activities were performed, internal control including a review of gifts and hospitality Adle Anderson The Board has overall responsibility to and executive expenses.
Chairman of the Audit Committee oversee the Groups system of internal 26 February 2016 control and to keep its effectiveness The Audit Committee regularly reviews under review, as well as to determine the the effectiveness of the risk and internal nature and extent of the risks it is willing audit function and in particular ensures to take in achieving its strategic objectives that the function remains sufficiently based on the balance of potential risks independent of the wider business to and reward.
The Groups approach to ensure it can carry out its work effectively.
risk management is described in detail An independent review of the risk and on pages 70 to 71 and the principal risks internal audit function is carried out every are detailed on pages 37 to 39. five years and was last performed at the end of 2013.
An external review of the The Board conducts an annual Groups risk management process was review of the effectiveness of the risk carried out during 2015 as discussed in management and internal control the focus on risk section on page 70. systems.
During this review the Board has not identied nor been made aware Whistleblowing policy of any failing or weakness which it has The Audit Committee is responsible for determined to be significant.
overseeing the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures, under which The key elements taken into account employees can raise concerns about in this review include: possible improprieties whether financial or otherwise within the Group on a the Groups internal audit functions condential basis.
The arrangements are work during the year see below monitored by the committee throughout the Groups risk management the year.
All whistleblowing incidents are process see pages 70 to 71 reported to the Committee and fully the Groups controls over its financial investigated with procedures reviewed reporting process including: the and improved where appropriate.
comprehensive system for reporting results to the Board: the process for During 2015, the Committee: producing the consolidated financial continued to review the scope, statements: and the experience and resourcing and application of the quality of the team involved in the existing whistleblowing policy to make financial reporting processes sure this remained appropriate to intus operations and employees Internal audit extended the policy to cover the The Group has a risk and internal audit Groups operations in Spain, in function which reports to the Audit particular Puerto Venecia, Committee.
The risk and internal audit Zaragoza acquired in January 2015 function reviews internal controls and initiated a process to extend the reports to the Audit Committee on Groups policy to include key suppliers whether such controls are in place and are being operated effectively.
The There were two whistleblowing function covers intu properties plc incidents relating to the intu Group and its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The first related to alleged misuse of CCTV and was found to be The risk and internal audit function has unsubstantiated.
The outcome was not a rolling programme of reviews ensuring challenged by the original complainant.
that all centres, functions and areas of The second, an allegation against a the business are reviewed regularly.
The staff member, was not corroborated by most significant areas covered in 2015 evidence on investigation, but has been included shopping centre healthchecks noted by the Audit Committee for or follow-up reviews at six centres, a follow-up action.
