Implementation and compliance responsibility 70 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Focus on risk The effective assessment and management of risk is key to the delivery of the Groups strategy The effective assessment and Risk appetite asset management strategy.
This focus management of risk is key to the delivery Our risk appetite remains broadly on our core strengths is balanced by a of the Groups strategy.
The setting of unchanged in 2015.
Risk appetite is the more cautious approach to risk in other the Groups risk appetite by the Board level of risk the Group is willing to take to areas.
In nancing we set a target Group provides the framework within which achieve its strategic objectives and is set debt-to-asset ratio of 40-50 per cent and the Groups risk management process by the Board.
The Board looks at the require interest cover of more than operates.
Risk management is embedded Groups appetite to risk across a number 160 per cent, giving us significant throughout the business with all of areas including the property market, headroom against our loan covenants employees aware of the role they play.
nancing, operations, strategy and to ensure that we are in a strong position execution, developments, cybersecurity in the event of any substantial falls in An independent review of the maturity and technology and brand.
We continue to look to of the intu risk processes was performed minimise interest rate risk with a policy during 2015. intus risk management was The Groups risk appetite is set in the of hedging at least 75 per cent of the benchmarked as equivalent to or better context of our focus on one sector exposure and seek to renance debt early than that of peers in property and retail.
As experts in to reduce risk.
This does not however Risk processes were found to be sound this sector we are able to mitigate the prevent us looking at innovative debt and the business was found to be risk involved in growing the business by structures that provide the Group with engaged in managing risk.
acquisition, development and our active diverse funding options.
Risk management framework ensure that risk is managed across the business define the Groups appetite for risk Board with the Executive Committee, assess the Groups principal risks monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system Audit Committee monitor and review the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk lead the development of risk management collate outputs of risk management exercises including risk registers for presentation Risk and internal audit to Audit Committee, Executive Committee and Board identify emerging risks across the business input into Boards process for setting risk appetite implement strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite Executive Committee lead operational managements approach to risk with the Board, assess the Groups principal risks create an environment where risk management is embraced and the responsibility of risk management is accepted by all employees implement and maintain risk management processes Operational management produce and maintain risk registers including identication of risks, mitigating controls and actions required active in the day-to-day management of risk Employees Monitoring and reporting responsibility intugroup.
co. uk Governance 71 Risk management process Risks are measured for impact and intus Board has overall responsibility likelihood, and an assessment is made of for risk management.
The effectiveness how quickly the risks would impact the of the risk management system is business and how long those risks would monitored and reviewed by the Audit impact the business for.
Impact and Committee and through periodic likelihood change as businesses and external review.
Risk management is external factors evolve.
intus ongoing embedded in intus culture, from cleaners risk management ensures that changes making sure that the centres are free in impact and likelihood are identied of hazards to the construction team and managed appropriately.
ensuring the right contractors are selected for developments.
The risk registers created through this process are subject to at least an annual All businesses need to take risk in order review, facilitated by the risk and internal Insurance renewal to generate returns.
Operational management As part of the renewal processes for assists in understanding the risks that are responsible for managing the risks 2015, insurers were invited to visit intu we are taking: it does not try to prevent and for updating the risk registers.
centres to see the business in action.
Risks are identied The Audit Committee oversees the risk As a result significant interest was and assessed to ascertain if they are management process, receiving risk generated and a reduction in intus within the acceptable risk appetite of updates at least four times a year.
insurance renewal rates of more than the business.
If not, action is taken to 1 million on a like-for-like basis was reduce the risk to an acceptable level.
The principal risks identied by this achieved and passed on to tenants.
process are discussed in more detail The site visits were accompanied by Our assessment of risk is underpinned by on pages 37 to 39. a detailed presentation highlighting a formal risk review process conducted how intus proactive approach reduces for each area and every level of the risk for both the insurers and the business including for each centre, each business, for example: department and the executive team.
National Counter Terrorism Security These reviews identify risks and assess Office links for all centres them for controllability and stability.
documented crisis management plan and procedures Viability statement documented emergency plans, for In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have example threat level response, business assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than that required in adopting impact assessments the going concern basis of accounting.
Based on the result of this analysis, the Directors have annual desktop testing of emergency a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its plans for all centres liabilities as they fall due over the next five years.
This period is considered appropriate because of the combination of the following factors: investing in ongoing training and development for employees to help the Groups strategic plan covers 10 years, with a greater degree of detail and rigour them carry out responsibilities to applied to the first five years a high standard the Groups weighted average unexpired lease term, which at 31 December 2015 was retailer duct work inspection process 7.9 years to mitigate risk of re the Groups weighted average debt maturity, which at 31 December 2015 was 7.8 years independent re surveys carried out the term of the Groups Revolving Credit Facility, which currently extends to 2020 at all managed centres The strategic plan incorporates the Groups strategic objectives and considers the impact of direct relationships with loss mitigation the principal risks.
The plan considers net rental income, cash ows, development expenditure, company to minimise the impact potential corporate transactions and renancing plans over the 10 year period.
It highlights of incidents the impact of the relevant principal risks on key metrics such as debt to assets ratios, earnings 24-hour CCTV in use at all centres per share and financial headroom and models the impact of potential corporate transactions and their impact.
We also consider the impact on the Groups financial position of changes in police presence at centres including key input assumptions including asset values, income and renancing.
Key assumptions and a number of police offices within sensitivities addressed include: the centres renancing of debt: 1.6 billion around 35 per cent of the Groups debt is due for repayment in the next five years falls in the value of investment property of up to 25 per cent falls in income of up to 10 per cent
