co. uk Governance 69 Relations with shareholders Overall approach With these objectives in mind, the intu places considerable emphasis on executive team including, on occasion, maintaining an open and frank dialogue the Chairman together with the Head of 380 with investors.
Our programme of Investor Relations attended over 380 investor meetings in 2015 investor relations activities is based meetings with representatives of 190 around the financial reporting calendar investment institutions during 2015 to and seeks to: keep them informed of our performance and plans, to answer their specic develop existing and potential questions and to understand their views.
190 investors understanding of intus In addition the investor section of our investment institutions business strategy, operations, Group website provides all shareholders engaged with in 2015 performance and investment case with a great deal of immediate as well as provide to the Board and executive general information and a feedback team an insight into the differing facility.
Regular visits to our centres views of intus institutional and other enable investors to learn more about the significant investors together with a culture and values of the Group and gain cross-section of retail shareholders insight into operational delivery.
Key components of the investor relations programme One-on-one meetings with Results-related meetings: Road shows: Following results Investor and analyst property principal shareholders: The Institutional shareholders are announcements, executive visits: Institutional shareholders Chairman is available to meet invited to a presentation with a management conducts one-toare invited to attend at least one with key investors to answer question and answer session by one and Group meetings with property visit each year with their questions and to better the executive team on the day institutional shareholders in the presentations on intus business.
understand their views, of announcement of final and UK, South Africa, Europe and This gives an opportunity for particularly with regard to interim results.
The Chairman and the US, giving the opportunity formal and informal interaction governance matters.
a number of the Non-Executives to meet other fund managers with the executive team and the also attend these presentations.
as well as the sector specialist of next tier of management.
Unattributable 2015, investors visited Puerto feedback from these meetings Venecia and intu Lakeside to is provided to the Board.
see recent changes and to hear about our strategic objectives.
Investor conferences: General meetings: The annual Interaction with sell side Debt investors: Representatives Several investment banks hold general meeting AGM, usually analysts: Many investors of intus key relationship conferences for investors and held in May, gives the opportunity develop their understanding banks are invited to the companies in the real-estate for all shareholders private and of the Company partly through results presentations and sector.
They are a good institutional to ask questions discussions with independent meet periodically with the opportunity for the executive of the Board, including the analysts.
intu engages with Chief Financial Officer.
team to meet a large number of Chairmen of both the Audit and analysts from 20 institutions in Institutional investors in certain current and potential investors Remuneration Committees.
The order to improve the accuracy of the Groups listed debt are in a mixture of group and entire Board is also available to and insight of their research.
invited to periodic updates one-to-one meetings, and talk to shareholders before and The Board is kept informed on the Groups business and informally.
intu attended five after the meeting.
We welcome such conferences in 2015 in the and recommendations.
the moves by some credit-side UK, Europe and the US.
institutional investors towards more openness regarding holdings of debt instruments and road show style 5 20 one-to-one meetings.
investor conferences sell-side institutions cover intu Read more at intugroup.
