Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 043 LEADERSHIP The role of the Board and its Committees Chart 16 Board Responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
It sets strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring only acceptable risks are taken.
It provides leadership and direction and is also responsible for corporate governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
More details on pages 44 and 45.
Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Reviews and is responsible for Reviews and recommends to the Reviews and recommends to the oversight of the Groups financial Board the executive remuneration Board the structure, size and and reporting processes, the policy and determines the composition of the Board and its integrity of the financial statements, remuneration packages of the Committees.
It also has oversight the external and internal audit Executive Directors and other responsibility for succession processes, and the systems of internal members of the Executive planning of the Board and senior control and risk management.
Executive Committee An advisory Committee that operates under the direction Chief Executive and authority of the Chief Executive.
It comprises senior Responsible for implementation of the management from across the business see page 42.
Boards strategy, day-to-day management It assists the Chief Executive, and the Chief Financial Officer, of the business and all matters which have in implementing strategy and policies and managing the not been reserved to the Board or delegated operational and financial performance of the Group.
It also to its Committees.
addresses other key business and corporate related matters, More details below.
including succession planning and organisational development.
Management Committees Asset and Liability Committee Investment Committee London and Retail Executive Sustainability Committee Health and Safety Committee Responsible for considering the Responsible for considering and Committees Responsible for developing and Responsible for overseeing the impact of proposed sales, approving significant investment Responsible for the financial, implementing the Groups Groups health and safety purchases, developments and transactions, including the operational and governance sustainability strategy, linked to operations, performance against debt funding arrangements on acquisition, disposal and performance of their respective and integrated with the Groups targets and progress towards the Groups balance sheet and development of assets with a business portfolio.
They also overall corporate strategy.
internal control metrics over the value of between 20m and approve transactions up to a doing so, it also considers short and medium-term.
It also 150m, and other transactions value of 10m.
environmental, social, economic considers the likely impact of not in the ordinary course of and energy issues affecting the macroeconomic developments business.
It is also responsible for business.
implementing the annual funding strategy approved by the Board.
Matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities To retain control of key decisions, the Board has identified can be found on the Companys website at certain reserved matters that only it can approve, with www.
Any matters outside of other matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated these fall within the Chief Executives responsibility and to its Committees and certain Management Committees, authority.
Accordingly, he chairs each of the Management as above.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board Committees and reports on their activities through his and and the terms of reference for each of its Committees the Chief Financial Officers monthly report to the Board.
044 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Board composition and roles The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six independent Non-executive Directors.
Their key responsibilities are as set out in the table below: Board composition and roles Table 17 Chairman Dame Alison Carnwath Responsible for leading and managing the Board, its effectiveness, and governance.
Ensuring Board members are aware of and understand the views and objectives of major shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Helps set the tone from the top in terms of the purpose, goal, vision and values for the whole organisation.
Chief Executive Robert Noel Responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
Chief Financial Officer Martin Greenslade Supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy, and in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Independent Kevin OByrne, Chris Bartram, Simon Responsible for bringing sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards deliberations and  Directors Palley, Stacey Rauch, Cressida Hogg, making process.
Constructively challenges and supports the Executive Directors.
Monitors the delivery Edward Bonham Carter of the agreed strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Senior Independent Kevin OByrne Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for other Directors.
Available to Director discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Board and Committee meetings attendance during the year Table 18 Audit Nominations Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Dame Alison Carnwath 8 8 2 2 4 4 Robert Noel 8 8 Martin Greenslade 8 8 David Rough 3 3 2 2 Kevin OByrne 8 8 6 6 2 2 Chris Bartram 8 8 2 2 4 4 Simon Palley 8 8 2 2 4 4 Stacey Rauch 8 8 6 6 Cressida Hogg CBE 8 8 6 6 Edward Bonham Carter 8 8 4 4 David Rough stepped down from the Board on 18 July 2014.
His attendance related to the period from 1 April 2014 to that date.
Gender diversity Board Chart 19 Executive Committee Chart 20 Men 6 Men 5 33% 29% Women 3 Women 2 We are making progress in terms of gender diversity with 67% 71% the percentage of women increasing across the Group from 49% to 51%.
However, we have more to do in Senior Leaders Chart 21 All Employees Chart 22 improving other aspects Men 26 Men 286 28% 51% Women 10 Women 298 of our diversity.
Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman 72% 49% More information on diversity can be found in the Our people strategy section on page 19 and in the includes subsidiary directors.
Effectiveness section on pages 47 and 48.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 045 Board meetings and activity during the year Chart 23 Board meetings AGM 1 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sept 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 Feb 15 31 Mar 15 Board activity The diagram below shows the key areas of Board activity during the year.
Property, strategy and funding Financial performance Reviewed strategy and business development Considered the financial as part of a two-day off-site meeting performance of the business Debated the property cycle and retail outlook and approved the budget, key Reviewed the Groups performance against performance targets and its competitors five-year plan Considered portfolio liquidity analysis and Reviewed the half-year and annual development exposure results and presentations to Approved acquisitions and disposals of analysts and approved the Annual properties with a value in excess of 150m, Report including the acquisition of the remaining Considered the half-yearly 50% interest we did not already own in valuation of the Groups portfolio Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow, the disposal of by external valuers.
Property, Princesshay, Exeter, and the acquisition of a Financial strategy and 30% interest in Bluewater, Kent performance funding Reviewed and approved the redevelopment of Westgate, Oxford, and the conditions around the redevelopment of Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow Considered and approved the Groups debt funding arrangements and a new revolving credit facility.
THE BOARD Governance, stakeholders and Leadership and shareholders people Governance, stakeholders and Leadership and people Discussed the composition of the shareholders Board and its Committees, Discussed the outcome of the Board Internal control including succession planning evaluation and effectiveness review, and risk Reviewed the development of and agreed improvement opportunities management people and talent in the Group, Considered sustainability, including the including succession planning for Groups impact on the community and senior roles the environment Discussed the results of the Reviewed regular health and safety employee engagement survey and updates the actions arising from it.
Reviewed developments in corporate governance and received key legal and regulatory updates Internal control and risk Regularly reviewed feedback from institutional shareholders management Reviewed the Groups purpose, goal, Reviewed the Groups risk register and vision and values.
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management Debated significant and emerging risks, including the loss of key people and political uncertainty arising from the Scottish referendum and the UK General Election.
