Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 047 Board, Committees and Directors performance evaluation cycle Chart 24 EFFECTIVENESS Nominations Committee activity Year 1 external Year 2 internal Year 3 internal The key areas of Committee activity during the Evaluation by independent Evaluation focused on Progress review generally consultants Year 1 issues raised and and interviews with the year included: any specific new issues Chairman completion of inductions for two newly arising appointed Non-executives the leadership needs and succession planning of the Group, including identifying and developing talent the Boards structure, size, composition, skills Performance evaluation 2014 15 Year 3 of cycle Chart 25 and diversity the composition of Board Committees potential conflicts of interest amongst Review of the Board Conclusions from Progress Areas of focus Directors and Committee the years review against targets in 2015 16 workings set for 2014 15 new Letters of Appointment for the Chairman and Non-executives investor sentiment on notice periods.
Board evaluation This year was the third in the Groups three-year additional time spent discussing the property cycle, Areas of focus in 2015 16 performance evaluation cycle.
The overall aim was its timing and the likely impacts on the Group.
Directors would like to hear more contrary views to assess current performance, progress made and Directors also considered the extent to which there on key macro-economic forecasts, such as the opportunities for improvement based on a survey may be group-think and whether they felt property cycle, and to receive raw data on some comprising a number of open questions on the unsighted on any key aspect of the business.
topics without a recommendation or analysis workings and effectiveness of the Board and its The discussions and conclusions on succession from the Executives so that they may more Committees.
The responses were discussed at a planning are summarised in the Chairmans letter.
readily form their own views series of individual interviews with Directors, Progress against targets set for 2014 15 The Board would like more focus at meetings on conducted by the Chairman.
Good progress had been made against the Board the properties within the Retail Portfolio and on The outcome of the evaluation was fed back evaluation targets set last year: the shape of that portfolio as a whole to the Board at its meeting in March 2015 and a Directors were pleased with the additional efforts Directors were also keen to ensure that the Board series of action items agreed.
A summary of these of management to ensure the Board continued to did not lose sight of other geo-political issues that appears below.
receive operational insights during the year, which might disrupt the business in the short-term.
The Chairman also met with each Director was the first when the Managing Directors of the individually to provide feedback on their performance Board environment and access to appropriate London and Retail portfolios did not sit on the and suggestions for improvement.
She also discussed information Board.
Those Managing Directors were invited to her expectations of the Board as a whole and the This topic is explored at every Board evaluation and attend a number of Board events, including the contribution expected of each Director.
has resulted in a number of improvements in recent strategy away day in February, and provided Kevin OByrne, the Senior Independent Director, years.
These are set out in more detail below.
business unit reports that were circulated with led the evaluation of the Chairman with the A positive, transparent culture exists on the Board Board papers.
Directors also spent more time other Non-executives.
He gave feedback to the with each member contributing and valuing the meeting managers from those businesses both at Chairman on the outcome.
The environment and outside Board meetings, including attending Review of the Board and Committee workings encourages Directors to raise challenging questions, dinners at which the Executive Directors were The review explored three key aspects: debate issues freely and respond to one another not present The flow of information to the Board and the ability Attendance at meetings of senior managers Key Board papers are now written on a forwardof Non-executives to independently interpret and below Board level is encouraged.
In addition we looking basis whereby they focus on decisions use it to challenge managements conclusions held two Non-executive Director sessions likely to be made in the medium term, issues without the Executive Directors present and The vision for the business and the corporate facing the business and the execution of strategy.
Board dinners with a variety of attendees, culture This change was made in order to increase the including senior managers.
Support and advice scope for Non-executive Directors to participate Succession planning at Board and senior was provided by the Group Company Secretary in discussions and influence decision-making on management level.
key issues at an early stage.
The change has been Conclusions from this years review a success, with meetings seeing a richer discussion Professional development, support and The Board concluded that the workings of the Board and Non-executive Directors sharing more training for Directors and its Committees remained effective and they insights and providing more challenge at meetings.
The Board has two specific knowledge continued to operate to a high level, with good The Board felt that it made good use of the development sessions planned in each year and progress made against the areas for improvement additional 45 minutes added to meetings Directors also attend other key business events.
identified in the previous evaluation.
No serious The Chief Executive gave a presentation on This year the Board received a presentation on issues were raised.
competitor activity and strategy at the Boards occupier needs in buildings of the future.
The Board particularly welcomed the away day, which was well received by Directors.
Board knowledge of the Groups property improvements to Board papers, which it felt were of Regular updates will continue to be provided.
portfolio was enhanced through site visits by a very high standard.
Many Directors welcomed the Directors to a number of properties and 0 04 48 8 L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 developments.
This year, all Directors attended Independence and re-election to the Board Conflicts of interest property tours conducted by the Groups health and The independence, effectiveness and commitment The Board operates a policy to identify and, where safety teams, who took them through our safety of each of the Non-executive Directors has been appropriate, manage potential conflicts of interest procedures in an operational environment.
reviewed and discussed with them privately by affecting Directors.
The Nominations Committee To enrich the experience and development of the Chairman.
The results were shared with the monitors the situation and has acted to address Executive Directors and senior managers, the Group Nominations Committee which satisfied itself on potential conflicts as detailed in the table below.
supports the holding of non-executive directorship the contributions and time commitment of all the positions at other listed companies and charities.
A specific review was conducted by the Committee in relation to Kevin Induction OByrne as he has been in office for more than six Following appointment in 2014, Cressida Hogg and years.
The Committee was confident Mr OByrne Edward Bonham Carter completed their tailored and each of the Non-executives remain independent induction programmes during the year arranged and will be in a position to discharge their duties in by the Chairman and Group Company Secretary.
All the Directors will stand for This included visits to various properties and re-election at the Annual General Meeting with the development sites across the London and Retail support of the Board.
portfolios, and meetings with a number of senior managers in the organisation including Portfolio Directors, Centre Managers and senior managers Potential conflicts of interest Table 26 from the Groups finance, company secretarial, risk Nominations Committee decision and mitigating management and internal audit, information Director Potential conflict situation actions taken systems and treasury functions.
Dame Alison A non-executive director of Zurich Since the Groups insurance programme and Carnwath Insurance Company Limited with policy matters are handled by the Executive Board strategy review whom the Group places certain of Directors outside of the Board and in The Boards away day to discuss strategy was this its insurance policies and pension consultation with its own independent year held over two days in London and included: investments.
insurance brokers, the Committee detailed consideration of the London and Retail concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving Alison Carnwath and property cycles, their likely timing and impacts Zurich Insurance were unlikely to occur.
on the Group, its assets, funding and budget the potential for investing in new sectors of the Chris Bartram Chairman and Partner of Orchard Chris Bartram did not take part during UK real estate market Street Investment Management the year in discussions on, or see relevant OSIM and a Board Counsellor information on, potential acquisitions and a presentation and discussion on retailer previously a Board member of development of property where there was requirements in the future The Crown Estate, both of which a realistic prospect of OSIM or The Crown presentations from external experts on the are, in some areas of operation, Estate also being involved.
macro-economic environment and property competitors of the Group.
The Committee does not see any ongoing market outlook.
The Crown Estate is also the Groups potential conflict situations arising since joint venture partner at a major Chris Bartram stepped down from his Diversity policy development.
Chairman and Partner positions with The Board works hard to ensure that it is able to OSIM on 31 March 2015 even though he recruit directors from different backgrounds, with is retained by that firm in an advisory capacity.
The existing controls in respect diverse experience, perspectives, personalities, of his appointment at The Crown Estate skills and knowledge.
Diversity amongst directors will continue.
contributes towards a high performing, effective Board.
We are pleased to report progress against Kevin OByrne Executive Director of Kingfisher plc, Since operational matters, such as retail the Boards 2013 diversity policy and the fact that a large customer of the Group.
leasing, are unlikely to be considered at we have met the target for 25% of the Board to Board level, the Committee concluded that comprise women a year ahead of target.
in practice conflicts of interest involving Kevin OByrne and his employer were In support of our policy, we will only engage unlikely to occur.
executive search firms who have signed up to the Kevin OByrne resigned his position at voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and Kingfisher plc effective 15 May 2015.
Search firms also need to demonstrate controls in place to mitigate this potential their independence from the Company and people conflict were withdrawn from that date.
We have also made good progress in terms of Cressida Hogg CBE Managing Director, Head of In her role, Cressida Hogg will not have gender diversity generally, with more women now Infrastructure, of the Canada Pension any involvement with the development filling senior management positions across the Plan Investment Board CPPIB which in question as a different business unit is the Groups joint venture partner at within CPPIB manages it.
You will see in Our people strategy section a major development.
precaution, the Group will not share any of this report that each of the Groups Executive sensitive information on that development Committees already have a number of women with her and she has agreed not to amongst their membership.
We continue to focus on participate in any Board discussion that this important area.
The diversity charts on page 44 relates to it.
Edward Bonham Vice Chairman of Jupiter Fund Edward Bonham Carters position is such Carter Management plc, a fund manager that he is unlikely to be involved in the which evaluates investments that selection of particular investments and has may or may not include those of agreed not to participate in any investment the Group.
decisions which may involve the Groups securities.
