050 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 ACCOUNTABILITY Structure and operations Audit Committee activity the results of internal audit reviews and the The Committees structure and operations, including progress made against agreed management The key areas of Committee activity during the its delegated responsibilities and authority, are actions year included the planning, monitoring, reviewing governed by terms of reference that are annually and approving of the following: quarterly reports on investigated internal reviewed and approved by the Board.
control issues significant to the Group To maintain effective communication between all Financial reporting quarterly reports on the Groups risk register, relevant parties, and in support of its activities, the the quality and appropriateness of the half including significant and emerging risks Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, year and annual financial statements Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, compliance by management concerning the the information, underlying assumptions and representatives of the external auditor, Ernst & operation of the business for which they are stress test analysis presented in support of the Young LLP EY, and other members of the senior responsible going concern statement finance team regularly attend Committee meetings.
the adequacy and effectiveness of the the consistency and appropriateness of the All other Non-executive Directors are invited to Groups internal control and risk financial control environment attend meetings when the external valuers make management systems.
The Committee as the dividend policy and the payment of Internal audit a whole has regular private sessions with the internal dividends, with due regard to the Companys and external audit teams.
In addition, the Committee REIT status the scope of the internal audit plan Chairman has individual and informal sessions with the degree to which the Annual Report is fair, the independence, appropriateness and them, and the valuers, to ensure open lines of balanced and understandable.
communication exist in case they wish to raise any External audit External property valuation concerns outside of formal Committee meetings.
Whilst the Committee members between them the scope of the external audit plan the quality and appropriateness of the half have a wide range of business and financial year and full year external valuation of the the independence and objectivity of EY experience adequate enough to discharge their Groups property portfolio the level of fees paid to EY for non-audit duties, Kevin OByrne is the member determined by the independence and effectiveness of the services the Board as having recent and relevant financial external valuers.
EYs reappointment to office as external experience for the purposes of satisfying the UK auditor.
Other Corporate Governance Code Code.
The Committee works to a structured the Committees terms of reference and its Risk management and internal control programme of activities to coincide with key events performance effectiveness the scope of the internal control and risk around the Companys financial calendar.
Following compliance with the Code and the Groups management programme each meeting, the Committee Chairman reports on regulatory and legislative environment.
the main discussion points and findings to the Board.
External auditor EY, as the external auditor, is engaged to express an Audit plan the Financial Reporting Council FRC s May 2014 opinion on the Companys and the Groups financial In respect of the audit for the financial year under Audit Quality Inspection Report in respect of EY statements.
Their audit includes a review and test of review, EY presented their audit plan prepared in and the firms internal quality control systems the systems of internal control and data contained in consultation with management and the Director the mitigation actions taken by the Company in the financial statements to the extent necessary to of Risk Management and Internal Audit to the seeking to safeguard EYs independent status, express an audit opinion on them.
The objective was to build on EYs including the operation of policies designed increased familiarity with the business and make sure Effectiveness of the external audit process to regulate the amount of non-audit services it was appropriate for the Groups structure.
It was Following the issue of the Companys Annual provided by EY and the employment of former agreed that the audit plan would again be risk and Report, the Director of Risk Management and EY employees materiality focused, challenge based and designed Internal Audit conducts a specific performance the tenure of the audit engagement partner to provide valuable insights beyond the audit.
The evaluation review of the external audit process, not being greater than five years Committee Chairman was kept informed regarding including its effectiveness, and the objectivity the internal performance evaluation of EY referred the negotiation of the audit fee to ensure an and independence of the external auditor.
appropriate balance existed between the scope conducted against the structured guidelines of the of work and the cost of assurance.
ICAEW and in consultation with the Executives and Taking the above review into account, the senior finance team.
The Committee reviews the Committee concluded that EY remained objective Objectivity and independence results.
The Committee Chairman and the Chief and independent in their role as external auditor.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and Financial Officer also each meet privately with the reviewing the objectivity and independence of audit engagement partner.
In undertaking its annual EY successfully completed their inaugural audit assessment, the Committee has reviewed: for the 2013 14 financial year.
The conclusions from the confirmation from EY that they maintain our evaluation confirmed that they had settled appropriate internal safeguards in line with in well to their new role and were delivering to applicable professional standards a high audit service standard.
Areas identified for development were shared with EY to form part of their future audit plans and service delivery.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 051 Audit tendering The external valuers also met separately with Risk management and internal control EY were first appointed to the office of auditor, the external auditor and exchanged information The Board is responsible for determining both the following a competitive tender process, in respect of independently of management.
EY have experienced nature and extent of the Groups risk management the 2013 14 financial year.
Under current regulations, chartered surveyors on their team who consider the framework and the risk appetite that is acceptable the Company will be required to retender the audit valuers qualifications and assess and challenge the in seeking to achieve its business objectives.
This is again no later than in respect of the 2023 24 valuation approach, assumptions and judgements subject to regular Board review together with the financial year.
However, the Committee proposes made.
Their audit procedures are targeted at effectiveness of the internal control and risk to review the situation when the current audit addressing the risk in respect of the valuations and management systems.
The Committees role is to engagement partner is next due to rotate which is in the potential for any undue management influence assist the Board in overseeing the adequacy and respect of the 2018 19 financial year.
There are no in arriving at them.
This year, 30 properties from effectiveness of these systems, and the activities contractual restrictions in relation to the Companys across the portfolio were chosen for particular and effectiveness of internal audit.
attention by EYs valuation experts on the basis of Primary responsibility for operation of the internal A resolution to reappoint EY to office for a further their value, type and geography.
The external auditor control and risk management systems, which extend year will be proposed at this years Annual General performed site visits for a sample of assets including to include financial, operational and compliance Meeting.
those under development and completed analytical controls, has been delegated to management.
These and substantive reviews over the input data for systems have been designed to manage, rather than Non-audit services the valuations, comparing this to market data.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups To help safeguard EYs objectivity and independence, The Committee reviewed their findings.
business objectives and can provide only reasonable, the Company operates a non-audit services policy An internal evaluation of Knight Frank, who not absolute, assurance against material which sets out the circumstances and financial limits have been the Companys principal external valuer misstatement or loss.
within which they may be permitted to provide certain for many years, was conducted during the year.
The risk management framework and ongoing non-audit services such as tax and other services.
It confirmed that they continued to provide an processes to help identify, evaluate and manage The Committee monitors compliance with the policy independent and high quality valuation service.
the principal risks faced by the Group, which is and no changes have been made to it during the year.
Areas identified for improvement were shared with embedded within our everyday business activities The existing threshold level of 25,000 for each Knight Frank and an action plan implemented.
and culture, is described on pages 34 to 36.
This permitted non-audit service engagement with EY, A fixed-fee arrangement is in place for the process is regularly reviewed by the Board, with the above which the prior approval of the Committee valuation of the Groups properties and given the next one due in June this year, and accords with Chairman is required before work commences, importance of the work undertaken by the external the FRCs internal control guidance for directors.
remained unchanged during the year.
The valuers, we have disclosed the fees paid to them Committee also believes this level remains Internal controls in note 8 to the financial statements.
The total appropriate going forward.
The key elements of the Groups internal control valuation fees paid by the Company to the external Details of the audit fees charged during the year system can be summarised as follows: valuers during the year represented less than 5% of by EY 0.7m and non-audit fees 0.1m, can be an established organisation structure with clear each respective firms total fee income for the year.
found in note 7 to the financial statements.
lines of responsibility, approval levels and delegated Significant financial judgements and issues authorities External property valuations The Committee identified the following three issues The valuation of the Groups property portfolio, a management and committee structure which as significant, namely the valuation of the Groups including properties within the development facilitates regular performance review and property portfolio, revenue recognition and programme, is now undertaken by three external decision-making accounting for property acquisitions and disposals.
These are Knight Frank as the principal a comprehensive strategic review and annual Further details are provided in table 27 on page 53. valuer, Jones Lang LaSalle in relation to X-Leisure planning process These issues were considered to be significant taking and, for the first time this year, CBRE in relation to into account the level of materiality and the degree a robust budgeting, forecasting and financial Bluewater.
The valuation helps to determine a of judgement exercised by management and the reporting process.
This includes regular progress, significant part of the Groups net asset value, external valuers.
The Committee discussed these actions and performance updates versus targets reported performance and the remuneration of the issues with them, as well as the external auditor.
In and key performance indicators to the London Executives and senior management.
That is why addition, the Committee considered and took action Executive Committee, the Retail Executive the scrutiny of each valuation and the valuers in respect of other key items, including the going Committee, the Executive Committee and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness, concern basis on which the financial statements are Board represents such an important part of the prepared, maintenance of the Groups REIT status, a rigorous preparation process for the consolidated Committees remit.
adoption of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial financial results involving a number of review Valuations for the full and half year were reviewed Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, stages and challenged by both management and the and other specific areas of individual property Committee, with other Non-executive Directors various policies, procedures and guidelines and audit focus.
in attendance at the final presentations.
The underpinning the development, asset The Committee was satisfied that all issues Committee Chairman also met separately with management, financing and main operations of had been fully and adequately addressed, that the the valuers.
the business, together with professional services judgements made were reasonable and appropriate support including legal, human resources, and had been reviewed and debated with the information services, tax, company secretarial external auditor who concurred with the judgement and health and safety of management.
052 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 a compliance certification process from Fair, balanced and understandable management conducted bi-annually regarding The Committee again applied this year the due business activities generally diligence review procedure it established last year.
This included an additional Committee meeting a disciplined post acquisition review and integration ahead of the formal year end review.
Accordingly, programme to ensure the Groups governance, taking into account the preparation process, the procedures, standards and control environment information provided by management and the are rolled out effectively and timely opinions of the Executives and the external auditor, a constantly updated property information the Committee was able to confirm and recommend management system spanning the Groups entire to the Board that the 2015 Annual Report, taken portfolio.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Risk management and internal audit provides the necessary information for shareholders The Group has a risk management and internal audit to assess the Companys performance, business function which reports to the Committee and works model and strategy.
under the day-to-day supervision of the Director Whistleblowing policy of Risk Management and Internal Audit.
A Risk The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements, Management and Internal Audit Charter governs incorporated within a specific policy, which allow its remit.
The Committee, in consultation with employees to report concerns in confidence, and management, agrees the annual plan of activity anonymously if preferred, about suspected aligned to the needs of the business.
Both parts of impropriety or wrongdoing.
These include an the function work closely together to ensure that the independent third-party reporting facility outputs of one inform the future activities of the other.
comprising a telephone hotline and a recently The Committee receives and discusses on a introduced online process.
The Company runs quarterly basis: an awareness campaign every year and the the Groups risk register, including significant and arrangements are also brought to the attention emerging risks, and how exposures have changed of new employees.
Any matters reported are during the period: and investigated by the Group Company Secretary summary reports and progress against agreed and escalated to the Committee, as appropriate.
actions from internal audit on their review of the During the year there were no whistleblowing effectiveness of various elements of the internal incidents reported.
control system maintained by the Group.
Bribery and corruption policy The Board has a zero tolerance policy for bribery and The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness corruption of any sort.
The Company, in operating of the risk management and internal audit function the policy, gives regular training to staff on the to ensure it remains sufficiently independent to carry procedures, highlighting areas of vulnerability.
New employees are required to complete an online Effectiveness training module when they join.
Our principal Assisted by the Committee, the Board has reviewed suppliers are required to have similar policies and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal practices in place within their own businesses.
control and risk management in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
This took Committee effectiveness into account the valuable assurance work undertaken Feedback from the annual performance evaluation by the risk management and internal audit function of the Board and its Committees, which was and the relevant process, controls and testing work conducted internally this year, as described earlier undertaken by the external auditor as part of their in this report on page 47, confirmed that the Audit interim review and full year audit.
No weaknesses Committee continued to be effective in fulfilling or control failures significant to the Group were its duties.
Where areas for improvement were identified, new procedures have been introduced to strengthen the controls and will themselves be subject to regular review as part of the ongoing assurance process.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 053 Significant issues considered How addressed by the Committee Table 27 Valuation of the Groups property The Group uses three external valuers, Knight Frank, Jones Lang portfolio LaSalle and CBRE.
Each are leading firms in the UK property market.
The valuation of the Groups property The Audit Committee adopts a formal approach by which the portfolio including properties within the valuation process, methodology, assumptions and outcomes are development programme and held in reviewed and robustly challenged.
This includes separate review and joint ventures is a major determinant of scrutiny by management, the Committee Chairman and the the Groups performance and drives Committee itself.
It also includes the external auditor who is much of the variable remuneration for assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors who are the Executives.
Although the portfolio familiar with the valuation approach and UK property market.
The valuation is conducted externally by external auditor met with the valuers separately from management independent valuers, the nature of the and their remit extends to investigating and confirming that no valuation estimates is inherently undue influence has been exerted by management in relation to the subjective and requires the making of external valuers arriving at their valuations.
significant judgements and assumptions Each of the valuers submit their valuation reports to the Committee by management and the valuers.
as part of the half year and full year results process.
Knight Frank, Significant assumptions and judgements as the principal valuer of the Groups property portfolio, were asked made by the valuers in determining to attend and present to the Board their valuation reports and valuations may include the appropriate highlight any significant judgements made or disagreements yield based on recent market evidence, between themselves and management.
changes to market rents ERVs, what will The valuers proposed significant increases in the values of our occur at the end of each lease, the level of properties and developments during the year, which were discussed non-recoverable costs and alternative by the Committee in detail and accepted.
Development valuations also Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the include assumptions around costs to valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuations complete the development, the level of had each been conducted appropriately, independently and in letting at completion, incentives, lease accordance with the valuers professional standards.
terms and the length of time space remains void.
Revenue recognition The Committee and the external auditor considered a specific Certain transactions require paper from management setting out the main areas of judgement management to make judgements as to exercised in arriving at the accounting treatment applied for all whether and to what extent they should matters related to revenue recognition, including timing and be recognised as revenue in the year.
treatment of rents, incentives, surrender premia and other property related revenue.
Revenue recognition is significant to the Group as there is a risk of overstatement The auditor reviewed and tested individual transactions on a sample or deferral of revenue and revenue basis to ensure there was a contractual relationship and consistency profit to assist in meeting current or of accounting treatment between last year and this year.
future market expectations and In its assessment, the Committee, in consultation with the auditor, management performance incentive considered all relevant facts, challenged the recoverability of targets.
incentives, the options that management had in terms of accounting treatment and the appropriateness of the judgements made by management.
These matters had themselves been the subject of prior discussion between the auditor and management.
Both the Committee and the auditor concurred with the judgements made by management and were satisfied that the revenue reported for the year had been appropriately recognised.
Accounting for property acquisitions The Committee, in conjunction with the external auditor, reviewed and disposals and challenged managements individual papers on accounting During the year, the Group made several proposals and key judgements for all major complex property property acquisitions and disposals, acquisitions and disposals.
These included Bluewater, Kent, including interests in joint arrangements.
21 Moorfields, EC2, Times Square, EC4 and land at Harrow and Some of these transactions were large Ebbsfleet.
and complex and required management Following a review of the accounting treatment for a number of to apply estimates and make judgements key transactions, the Committee satisfied itself that the approach in determining whether a transaction adopted by management was appropriate in each case and in represented an acquisition or a business accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
combination, or when a transaction should be recognised, and the appropriate accounting treatment.
The accounting treatment is significant to the Group as there is a risk that an inappropriate approach may lead to the misstatement of the financial position or results of the Group.
Further details on critical accounting judgements and key estimations of uncertainty can be found in note 2 to the financial statements on page 92.
