054 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN ACTION A conventional view of non-executive directors is that they govern from afar.
However, the Non-executives in Land Securities are playing an increasingly active role, both engaging with the underlying business and working to At Land Securities, we have in support and challenge management.
Stacey Rauch who joined the Board place a strong and effective in January 2012 exemplifies todays active non-executive director.
governance framework which Board was then well equipped to respond to Stacey brings 24 years of retail sector experience from is an essential contributor to opportunities when they appeared.
the global management consulting firm McKinsey & Company to Land Securities.
She is applying that our sustained improvement in The value of different perspectives experience to the Groups challenges and opportunities, Her years with McKinsey and non-executive particularly how we anticipate and respond to rapid business performance.
Here directorships at three US companies give Stacey a change in the retail market.
That includes providing clear view on Board effectiveness.
Diversity of you will find examples of our insight on what global trends such as online and experiences and points of view are key, she believes.
omni-channel retailing, the heightened importance governance in action.
The range of skills on the Land Securities Board of value, and the growth of the food and leisure offer creates very interesting dialogue and thats reflected in malls mean for retailers and their space.
This is a Board that thinks Staceys insights are not restricted to the hard about what is in the best interests of shareholders boardroom.
She shares her perspectives with and works with management to see that through.
management and helps them identify and connect Stacey attends all of Land Securities Board with new customers.
Scott Parsons, Managing meetings and sits on the Audit Committee, which Director of the Retail Portfolio, recently visited a she values because it exposes you to many different number of innovative retailers in New York with aspects of the business.
She also goes out and Stacey.
Landlords are having to be much more active about to see the business at work.
Ive been to our and creative in response to retailers changing needs, major shopping centres in Leeds, Glasgow, Oxford, he says.
Along with her connections, Staceys Portsmouth and Kent.
Ive seen retail warehouses knowledge and experience are so valuable because and leisure parks and our major London office she can look from the customers perspective.
Visits enable me to see the assets for Prepared for transformation myself and engage fully with management.
Other During her time at Land Securities, management has Non-executives do the same and management are carried out a swift and far-reaching reshaping of the very receptive.
The real estate industry can be slow A recent example is her visit to the shopping to change, she says, but our portfolio has been centre at Westgate in Oxford, a few months before dramatically transformed, and very much in direct the Board was due to consider whether or not to response to the major trends.
We talk about proceed with its redevelopment.
Development dominance, experience and convenience and all Director Bert Martin reports that: It was a very of these themes are critical for our malls.
interactive session, which was unexpected but Identifying trends is one thing, responding is incredibly valuable.
She looked hard at areas such as another.
Stacey believes the way the Board and tenant mix and the catchment: whether we truly management have prepared for change has been understood the needs of the customers and the vital.
Management and Non-executives immersed community: and whether the scheme would provide themselves in what was happening in retail and the a compelling reason for people to come back time implications.
Management set the pace of change and time again.
Those conversations made us think and the market provided the opportunities.
The even harder and helped shape our Board paper requesting approval to proceed with the project.
Stacey especially values the culture of debate and challenge within the business.
People in Land Securities think deeply about things, she says.
We talk about dominance, experience and convenience, and all of these themes are critical for our malls.
Stacey Rauch, Non-executive Director You can read more about our Non-executive Stacey Rauch and Scott Parsons visiting 32-50 Strand, London WC2.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 055 Chris Bartram and Simon Palley visiting Nova, Victoria, SW1.
Within the business, we clearly communicate our property development insurers and principal health and safety commitment and we provide contractors to set and share new best practice HEALTH AND SAFETY comprehensive training to all employees.
A new standards for fire prevention during construction.
Group key performance indicator introduced this So for us, good governance on health and safety Our health and safety agenda is set year now requires us to publicly report on our starts inside Land Securities, but we also believe we from the top down and embedded in health and safety training actions.
have a responsibility to extend our expectations and We also want people outside Land Securities to standards to those who work for and with us.
In everything we do from the bottom be aware of the high standards we set and expect, sharing the knowledge we develop with our partners up.
To ensure the two ends meet, a and we want to help them particularly our supply along the road to Destination Zero, we aim to help chain partners to join us on the journey to the entire industry raise standards, prevent accidents rigorous governance framework is Destination Zero.
One example is that we now and reduce occupational ill health.
The Executive and Nonrequire every principal contractor to sign up to our executive Directors are regular visitors Health and Safety Pledge, which sets out the high A rigorous governance framework supports standards we require.
We have also set up to our properties to make sure we our health and safety agenda continuous improvement groups.
These bring A network of officers and committees leading walk the talk from the boardroom together our key supply chain partners to discuss through to the Group Health and Safety to our operations.
critical issues, share their knowledge and establish Committee chaired by the Chief Executive common standards.
Attendance is mandatory for As with everything we do at Land Securities, we aim to A dedicated team of professionals led by the contractors.
This year, we assembled a team of be a leader in our industry on health and safety.
This Group Head of Health and Safety who reports starts with both inspiring and requiring our employees to the Chief Executive to set the highest standards.
But we also work with our An annual cycle of focused audits and supply chain partners to ensure those standards are inspections undertaken by team members, met wherever we operate, from our construction sites external specialists and insurer representatives to the offices and shopping centres we own and Regular upward reporting to the London and manage.
We help share best practice across the For us, good health and safety wider property and construction industry too.
Retail Executive Committees, the Executive starts with good governance.
In Committee and bi-annually to the Board Destination Zero turn that should inspire a culture An established policy with clear, relevant and Our approach to safety starts from one central mandatory operating procedures and belief: accidents are avoidable and individual care, of respect, awareness and processes based on our ISO 18001 accountability and empowerment are key to keeping accreditation yourself and your colleagues safe.
This is why we have continuous improvement embarked on a journey to Destination Zero a Mandatory training for new and existing not just inside the Company programme launched last year with the objective of employees.
eliminating all accidents, injuries and work-related ill but outside with our many health at our operations.
This is part of our public partners too.
commitment to maintain an exceptional standard of both health and safety in all the working environments You can read more about health and safety in our Clive Johnson, Group Head of Health and Safety we manage and control.
056 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Exactly what did you acquire?
Board We acquired a 30% direct holding in Bluewater, Kent The Chief Executive raised the item as a discussion in June 2014 for 657 million.
The centre is now point at various Board meetings before presenting co-owned with a number of other investors.
We also a formal request for approval to proceed.
This gave acquired the full asset management rights for the the Board the opportunity to raise questions well in centre and 110 acres of surrounding land for 40 million.
advance of making a final decision.
Board discussion revolved around whether the acquisition made How were governance matters approached?
strategic sense, the competitive environment, Project Team investor views, pricing, financing and the impact on The project team included experts from around the the Group as a whole.
Once the acquisition had been business, including members of the Retail and approved by the Board, the Chief Executive kept London portfolios.
They were supported by internal Directors informed of transaction progress.
experts from across our professional support functions, namely, tax, insurance, treasury, company Market announcement secretarial, finance, internal audit, building surveying, On contract signing, an announcement was released Bluewater shopping centre.
HR, information systems and legal.
We also sought to the London Stock Exchange and the Executive specialist advice from external advisers and worked Directors answered questions from shareholders.
We held weekly project team Audit Committee BLUEWATER meetings in an open forum that ensured all team Successful integration of a new asset particularly members remained up-to-date.
Everyone within ACQUISITION such a large and complex one is clearly vital and the team was encouraged to discuss and challenge can be challenging.
The Audit Committee played an the acquisition strategy openly and constructively.
Bluewater, Kent, is one of the UKs oversight role in reviewing the appropriate accounting Next step actions were defined clearly at every treatment and the integration programme to ensure leading retail and leisure destinations.
meeting and followed up at the next one.
that Bluewater was absorbed into the Groups Retail The volume of data to be analysed was It is home to over 330 retailers, cafes, operations and internal controls and risk particularly challenging, but one which the team management programme.
Our Head of Information bars and restaurants, many of which met head on.
Our external advisers provided Systems coordinated the integration programme valuable advice and guidance: helped us analyse are international brands.
It attracts with the Retail Executive Committee taking data, cash flows and competition: and reviewed a responsibility for day-to-day operational and financial some 27 million visitors a year and very significant number of legal contracts and leases.
integration, reporting into the Audit Committee.
its catchment is one of the most Retail Executive Committee The project team produced a number of detailed affluent in the country.
papers for our Retail Executive Committee.
The Committee considered the opportunity, analysing Why did you buy into the Bluewater exactly how the asset would fit and be integrated shopping centre?
within the portfolio, together with the expected We have been transforming our Retail Portfolio, A key part of our successful returns and risks.
Committee members provided focusing it on assets that are dominant in their area, challenge and guidance to the project team who also offering great experience and convenience for acquisition of Bluewater was met with members and our Chief Executive outside shoppers.
With Bluewater, we had a rare opportunity of formal meetings to keep them updated on the application of a robust to acquire a stake in one of the UKs most successful progress and to gain advice and direction.
dominant shopping centres one of the ten largest governance approach at each centres in Europe, in fact.
To support the acquisition Investment Committee and continue our transformation we also sold a stage of the transaction.
The Committee considered the proposal in the number of retail assets less well matched to our context of the Groups strategy, alternative Scott Parsons, Managing Director, Retail Portfolio strategy and aspirations.
opportunities and the likely impact on cash flows and earnings.
They also looked at the ownership structure, due diligence and financial returns.
You can read more about the Bluewater acquisition on page 28 Project Team Retail Executive Investment Board Audit Day-to-day running of Considered the Committees Committee Committee Committee the project.
recommendations in the Reviewed the financial, Assessed the impact on Assumed oversight context of the Groups strategy operational and strategic the Groups strategy and responsibility for reviewing and alternative investment implications.
maintained oversight of the accounting treatment opportunities.
and the integration terms of the acquisition programme.
