Leadership The Role of the Board How we divide up our responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible to its shareholders for Title Responsibilities the long-term success of the business.
It seeks to achieve Chairman Leads the Board and ensures it operates this through effective leadership, strategy development and Patrick Vaughan effectively delivery, and the management and control of its resources.
Promotes Boardroom debate and builds relationships between Executive and There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive which has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board Chief Executive Manages dialogue and communication and monitoring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive, Andrew Jones with shareholders supported by the Executive Board is responsible for the day Recommends and implements strategy to day management of the Group and the implementation approved by the Board and delivery of its agreed strategic objectives.
Day to day management of the businessoperations assisted by the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring a constructive Executive team relationship between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for encouraging and fostering a culture of Boardroom Non-Executive Constructively challenge the challenge and debate.
Directors Executive Directors in determining Charles Cayzer andimplementing strategy Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the James Dean Chairman, is considered by the Board to be independent.
Alec Pelmore Committees comprise only independent Non-Executive Andrew Varley Directors, other than the Nominations Committee as Philip Watson permitted by the Code.
The Boards current composition Rosalyn Wilton meets the Codes requirement that at least half of its members, excluding the Chairman, are independent Senior Available as a communication channel Non-Executive Directors.
Independent for shareholders if other means are not Director appropriate Charles Cayzer A balanced Board Composition Tenure Changes to the Board Under 1 year Executive 18% 2 36% 36 years Board member Change 36% 4 Patrick Vaughan Appointed as Executive Chairman of the Company following the merger with Metric Property Investments Plc in 2013.
Although this did not comply with Provision A.
3.1 of the Code, the Board considered 13 years Non-executive it appropriate to maintain continuity of 46% 5 64% leadership and to facilitate the successful combination of two businesses given his long working relationship with the newly appointed Chief Executive, Andrew Gender diversity Jones, and given his relationship with key joint venture partners.
In October 2014 Female 9% following the successful merger of the two former businesses, the Chairman became a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Rosalyn Wilton Appointed to the Board and Audit Committee in March 2014, becoming Chairman of the Committee in November2014.
Male 91% Valentine Promoted to the Executive Board in Beresford June2014.
Mark Stirling Promoted to the Executive Board in June2014.
Humphrey Price Retired from the Board in March 2015.
Humphrey has had a long and successful working relationship with the Executive Board, who would like to thank him for the valuable contribution he has made.
LondonMetric Property Plc 60 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Governance framework The Board Chairman: Patrick Vaughan Comprises: 4 Executive and 7 Non-Executive Directors Role: Responsible to the shareholders for the longterm strategy, control and leadership of the Group Biographies see page 58, Business Model see page 20, Strategy in action see page 21 Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman: Rosalyn Wilton Chairman: James Dean Chairman: Chairman: Andrew Jones Charles Cayzer Comprises: Comprises: Comprises: 4 Non-Executive Directors 4 Non-Executive Directors Comprises: 4 Executive Directors 4 Non-Executive Directors Role: Oversees Role: Determines a Role: Implementation of corporate reporting, reward structure to Role: Evaluates strategy, achievement risk management and incentivise the Executive Board appointments, of targets, day to day internal control and the Directors composition, management of the external audit process effectiveness, succession business and diversity Audit Committee report Remuneration Nomination Strategic report see page 70 Committee report Committee report see page 2 see page 76 see page 66 Management Committees Investment Asset Management Finance Committee Committee Committee Chairman: Valentine Beresford Chairman: Mark Stirling Chairman: Martin McGann Comprises: 4 Executive Directors Comprises: 4 Executive Directors Comprises: 4 Executive Directors and senior management and senior management and senior management Role: Reviews investment and Role: Reviews value enhancing Role: Reviews budgets and divestment opportunities activities and development forecasts, achievement of targets, opportunities funding requirements and liquidity.
Investment review Asset Management review Finance review see page 26 see page 32 see page 38 The Audit and Remuneration Committees are composed Board Committees entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has three Committees of Non-Executive Directors: The Nomination Committee includes the Chairman who the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, is not considered to be independent but his attendance each operating within defined terms of reference which are is permitted by the Code.
The Company Secretary acts reviewed annually by the Board and which are available as secretary to each Committee.
The Chairman of each on written request and on the Companys website: Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 61 Leadership continued Board and committees membership and attendance The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further ad hoc meetings as required to deal with transactional matters.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with the Executive Directors and senior management between scheduled Board meetings, as part of each Directors contribution to the delivery of strategy.
The following table shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings they were eligible to attend during the year: Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Appointed Y N Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman 3 Patrick Vaughan 13 January 2010 N A 6 6 2 2 Executive Directors Andrew Jones 25 January 2013 N 6 6 Martin McGann 13 January 2010 N 6 6 Valentine Beresford 3 June 2014 N 5 5 Mark Stirling 3 June 2014 N 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Charles Cayzer 29 July 2010 Y 6 6 5 5 3 3 2 2 James Dean 29 July 2010 Y 6 6 3 3 1 Humphrey Price 29 July 2010 N 6 6 4 4 Andrew Varley 25 January 2013 Y 6 6 5 5 3 3 Alec Pelmore 25 January 2013 Y 6 6 5 5 2 2 Philip Watson 25 January 2013 Y 6 6 3 3 2 2 Rosalyn Wilton 25 March 2014 Y 6 6 5 5 2 % Independent 60% 100% 100% 100% 1 Retired from Audit Committee on 18 November 2014 and from the Board on 31 March 2015 and attended all meetings eligible to attend 2 As at the date of this report 3 Provision B.
1.1 of the Code regarding independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
Board activities Board priorities in 2015 16 Day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Implementation of business objectives in line with strategy topromote the long term success of the Company Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits.
Certain matters are reserved for consideration by the full Board, which are reviewed and updated annually and Consider the revisions to the Code relating to the longer term going concern assumption and the requirement for include the following: aViability Statement Setting and monitoring of overall strategy Ensuring there are adequate resources to meet objectives Continue to improve the identification, review and reporting of business risk and mitigation strategies Approving significant property and corporate acquisitions and disposals Consider the provision of interim management statements Approving major capital expenditure and development projects Set a base EPS target for the 2015 LTIP awards and annual Approving interim and annual financial statements bonus for the year to 31 March 2016 and dividends Reviewing property valuations Succession planning for the Chairman Reviewing treasury and financing arrangements Keep under review appropriateness of Remuneration policy Internal control and risk management Reviewing corporate governance arrangements and succession planning Evaluating the performance of the Board and Committees Executive performance, retention and remuneration Approval of annual budgets LondonMetric Property Plc 62 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance All Directors are expected to attend Charles Cayzer is a Non-Executive Director The Board delegates all meetings of the Board and of the of Caledonia Investments Plc, a shareholder authority to its Committees on which they serve, and to of the Company holding a 1.96% interest as Committees to devote sufficient time to the Companys at the date of this report.
Charles Cayzer assist in meeting its affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties himself is not a shareholder in the Company businessobjectives as Directors.
Where Directors are unable to and the Board is satisfied that there attend meetings, papers will be provided in are procedures in place at Caledonia advance and their comments are provided Investments to address this potential conflict.
to the Board prior to the meeting.
The Board does not believe Charles Cayzers independence is compromised by his In addition to the scheduled meetings, the position and is satisfied that he is able to Board held a dedicated off site strategy carry out his function as Senior Independent away day in March 2015 to consider the Director effectively.
The Chairman and other development of the Groups long term Non-Executive Directors meet regularly strategy and business model.
without the Executive Directors present.
The Board delegates authority to its During the year the Chairman met with the Committees to assist in meeting its business Non-Executive Directors individually and objectives and to maintain a sound system collectively to discuss their contribution, of internal control and risk management.
business matters and succession planning.
The Executive Committee meets monthly The outcome of these discussions is to discuss property investment divestment, conveyed to the Executive Directors development and asset management by the Senior Independent Director.
activities and the operational management The Senior Independent Director acts as of the Group.
The Executive Committee an intermediary to the Executive Directors supports the Chief Executive in the for the Non-Executive Directors and delivery of strategy, the achievement of shareholders as required.
He is available financial and operating targets and the to meet with shareholders at their assessment and management of business request to address concerns or, if other risks.
There are informal meetings between communication channels fail, to resolve the Executive Directors at other times and queries raised.
No such requests were they are involved in all significant business received from shareholders in the year.
discussions and decisions due to the size of The Senior Independent Director alsoleads the organisation.
the annual performance appraisal of the Chairman.
The Executive Committee has established three sub Committees: the Investment Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors Committee, chaired by Valentine Beresford, are set out in their biographies on pages the Asset Management Committee, 58 to 59.
On appointment they are advised chaired by Mark Stirling andthe Finance of the likely time commitment to fulfil the Committee, chaired by Martin McGann.
The ability of individual Directors to These Committees comprise Executive allocate sufficient time to discharge their Directors and members of the senior responsibilities is considered as part of the management team and meet at annual evaluation process undertaken by least monthly.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors Directors is able to devote sufficient time tothe Companys business.
The Non-Executive Directors are a diverse group with a wide range of experience encompassing property, finance, fund management, investment and risk management and retailing.
They provide a valued role by challenging aspects of executive decisions and bring independent and objective scrutiny and judgement to all matters raised and considered, ensuring that no one individual has unfettered Non-executive directors biographies decision making powers.
seepage 58 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 63
