Governance Governance at work The Board is committed to upholding the principles of good governance and adhering to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report sets out the Companys governance policies and practices and explains how it complies with the four main provisions of the Code.
Leadership Effectiveness The Board is collectively responsible to In January 2015, the Board commissioned the Companys shareholders for creating Law Debenture to facilitate the evaluation and delivering the long term success of its own performance and that of of the business.
The Directors seek to its Committees.
The process involved achieve this through effective leadership completion of an online questionnaire having regard to the interests of the followed by one to one interviews and Companys employees, the impact on the observation at a Board meeting.
communities within which it operates and Our Boards effectiveness the environment.
see page 64 On 1 October 2014 the Chairman became a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Rosalyn Wilton was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in November 2014.
On 31 March 2015 Humphrey Price retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Our Boards leadership see page 60 Accountability Remuneration The Board is responsible for establishing The role of the Remuneration Committee and maintaining the Groups system of risk is to determine and maintain a fair reward management and internal controls and for structure that incentivises Directors to deliver reviewing its effectiveness.
the Groups strategic objectives whilst maintaining stability in the management The Audit Committee improved the ofits long term business.
process undertaken to assess and support the statement that the Annual There are no changes proposed to the Report and Accounts is fair, balanced Remuneration Policy for the year ahead.
Our Boards remuneration see page 76 The Board has considered revisions to the Code which will become effective next year and has taken steps to improve the reporting of risks at meetings.
Our Boards accountability see page 70 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 57
