Governance Audit and Risk Committee the Committee The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Board in ensuring that the Groups financial performance is properly monitored, controlled and reported.
The Committees objective is to provide the During the year, the work undertaken by the Board with additional assurance regarding the Committee has included the following: efficacy and reliability of the financial information meeting with the external auditor at used by the Directors to assist them in the audit planning and reporting stages to discharge of their duties relating to corporate consider and discuss the audit strategy accountability and the associated risk in terms and plan, results of audit work as well as of management, assurance and reporting.
key accounting treatments and significant The Committee is responsible for reviewing reporting judgements required: and assessing the integrity of the risk control review of the Groups internal control and systems and for ensuring that the risk policies risk management systems.
A risk matrix has and strategies are effectively managed.
Risk been established which adequately identifies includes strategic, financial, operational, legal key risks as well as the managements and other risk.
Details of these risks have been actions and controls in place to manage set out in the risk section on pages 10 and 11 these risks: and in Note 34 to the consolidated financial review the effectiveness of internal controls statements.
and commissioning the appointment of an Membership and meetings internal auditor: The Committee comprises three independent meeting with selected key independent Nonexecutive Directors and together the property valuers to discuss the valuation Board considers the members to have sufficient The Committees process and underlying assumptions used recent and relevant experience to carry out inthe valuations: the functions of the Committee and more objective is to considering regulatory and specifically has identified Gavin Tipper and accountingupdates: provide the Board SueFord as having such experience.
review of the halfyearly and annual financial The Committee operates within Terms of with additional statements, including the approval of Reference, a copy of which is available on accounting policies used, assessment assurance regarding the Companys website.
During the reporting of the reasonableness of judgements year, four meetings were held, with meetings and estimates used and compliance the efficacy aligning to the Companys reporting timetable.
with statutory and listing obligations and Allmeetings were attended by the Chief and reliability accounting standards: Financial Officer and the auditor.
The valuers consideration and recommendation of the financial attended on two occasions to advise the ofdividends: Committee of the processes undertaken information used.
consideration of the going concern assumption adopted by the Board: Appointed Meetings review of the processes undertaken to Gavin Tipper Gavin Tipper 28 06 2012 4 4 ensure the Board is able to confirm that the Chairman of the Michael Farrow 23 08 2011 4 4 financial results reflect a fair, balanced and Audit and Risk Committee Sue Ford 30 01 2014 3 4 understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects to all Shareholders: assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor and its appointment: monitoring of the level of nonaudit services provided by the external auditor: and review of the whistleblowing policy by which staff may raise concerns in confidence regarding any financial or other matters.
No whistleblowing reports were raised during the year.
52 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Significant areas of judgement Effectiveness, independence and Audit fees appointment of the external auditor The Committee, in monitoring the integrity of The following fees have been paid to KPMG KPMG was appointed following a tender the financial statements, has assessed whether during the year, and are included in net suitable accounting policies have been adopted process in 2010 and has expressed its operating income in the consolidated statement willingness to remain in office.
and whether management has made appropriate of comprehensive income: estimates and judgements.
The Committee has In assessing the effectiveness and level of Year ended Year ended identified the following key matters material to service from the external auditor, the Committee 31 august 31 August the Groups results by their level of complexity 2015 2014 considered KPMGs knowledge of the or estimation involved: m m Company, the depth of understanding of the key Audit fees 0.3 0.3 accounting and audit judgements, the extent to Valuation of investment property nonaudit fees which the audit plan was met and the content of As the investment property balances and related the auditors report to the Committee.
Tax compliance and valuations are a significant part of the Groups advisory services 0.2 The Committee has undertaken a formal balance sheet and performance, it is a key Total 0.3 0.5 annual review with the auditor of any threats area of focus.
Property valuations inherently to its independence and whether the auditor require significant judgements and estimates continues to be judged independent.
Having Internal audit and hence valuations are prepared externally by considered the following, the Committee is independent property valuers.
The Committee Procedures have been established to identify, satisfied that KPMG remains independent, and met with two key valuers, independently of evaluate, manage and mitigate risks to which the recommends the reappointment of KPMG at management, to gain a thorough understanding Group is exposed.
Management controls have the AGM on 26 January 2016 without the need of the valuation process and to assess and been established in the key areas of strategic, for a tender process.
This position will continue challenge the key assumptions underlying the financial, operational and legal sectors and to be reviewed annually.
The Committee was also provided were reviewed during the year by an internal with an overview of the market, an indication of auditor.
The Committee has further reviewed KPMG has informed the Committee of the returns over the last few years and indications the internal audit processes and has made safeguards it has in place in order to maintain of equivalent yields.
Changes to the values of recommendations to improve the internal audit its independence, which include regular reviews certain properties were questioned and the to ensure that the Company is able to meet the of the composition of the audit team including reason for the changes requested.
new reporting requirements for the coming year.
rotation in accordance with the relevant regulations.
Having considered their safeguards The conclusion of the Committee was that: and other relevant factors KPMG consider that it Gavin Tipper processes appeared to be thorough and remains independent within the meaning of the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee meticulous: regulatory and professional requirements and the assets were valued on a highest and the objectivity of the audit partner and audit staff best use basis consistent with prior periods: is not impaired.
the assets were valued using reasonable The Committee has monitored the level of estimates and professional judgements: and audit to nonaudit services and assessed the assets were valued on a basis consistent the objectivity of the external auditor in with comparable market transactions.
conjunction with the senior management team.
The Companys policy on nonaudit Transactional risk and accounting services is included within the Committees for complex transactions Terms of Reference and can be accessed on A number of significant acquisitions and the Companys website.
The level of nonaudit disposals occurred during the year, including services and fees incurred during the year was the acquisition of 56 German retail properties compliant with the Terms of Reference.
in joint venture with Redefine Properties.
Allof the tax implications were considered and the transactions assessed for compliance with IFRS and the Groups accounting policies.
TheCommittee considered that the appropriate accounting treatment had been applied and there had been sufficient disclosure in the financial statements for all thetransactions.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 53
