Governance Leadership structure The Board Purpose: provides strong leadership for the Group and transparency and accountability to Shareholders for the management and control of the Companys activities Composition: Chairman, four executives, two nonexecutives, four independent nonexecutives Committee of the Board Independent Committee of the Board Purpose: approves ad hoc matters Purpose: to review any related between Board meetings party transactions Composition: three Directors Composition: at least three must include one independent nonexecutive independent nonexecutives Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration Investment Committee Committee Committee Committee Purpose: Purpose: Purpose: Purpose: ensures that the considers the determines the evaluates investment Groups financial composition, skills remuneration of proposals and performance is and succession the Executive Directors recommends whether properly monitored, planning of within the approved they should progress controlled and the Board remuneration policy to the Board reported Composition: Composition: Composition: Composition: three independent three independent three Directors three independent nonexecutives nonexecutives nonexecutives Further details pages 54 and 55 Further details pages 56 to 65 Further details pages 52 and 53 Executive Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee previously Environment, Social Purpose: daytoday and Governance Committee management of the Company Purpose: safeguards the Composition: all executives interests of stakeholders Composition: three executives 48 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information The Board comprises The Board is collectively responsible for the the Chairman, longterm success of the Company.
four independent nonexecutives, two nonexecutives and four executives.
The Board The Committees Greg Clarke has served as Chairman of the The Audit and Risk, Nominations and Board since 1 December 2011, further to Remuneration Committees all comprise three joining the Company on 4 October 2011.
He is independent Nonexecutive Directors as Board tenure responsible for its leadership and governance.
required by the UK Corporate Governance appointment yrs 0 1 2 3 4 Led by the Chairman the Board strives to be Code, and adhere to Terms of Reference.
effective by maintaining strong leadership and Greg Clarke Ad hoc matters of the Board are reviewed by providing transparency and accountability to either by a Committee of three Directors, one Shareholders for the management and control of Michael Farrow of which must be independent, or by the full the Companys activities.
Board, depending on the matter or the size of Gavin Tipper Mike Watters serves as the CEO and the division the transaction to be discussed, as detailed in of responsibilities of the Chairman and CEO has its Terms of Reference.
been documented and approved by the Board.
Sue Ford The Independent Committee of the Stephen Oakenfull has been appointed deputy Board, comprises solely of independent CEO thus ensuring a line of succession for Robert orr Nonexecutive Directors to ensure any futureyears.
related party transactions are given sufficient Michael Farrow is the Senior independent independentoversight.
Marc wainer Director, and is available to Shareholders Details of the Corporate Social Responsibility should they have concerns which they have Bernie nackan Committee can be found on page 37. been unable to resolve through the Chairman, The Investment Committee comprises a orforwhich such contact is inappropriate.
Mike watters mixture of independent and nonindependent The Board comprises the Chairman, nonexecutives and the CEO.
The four independent nonexecutives, two Stephen oakenfull nonexecutives are all highly skilled and nonexecutives and four executives.
Although experienced in the commercial property industry this structure results in no one individual or block adrian horsburgh and the Committee operates in an informal of individuals dominating the Boards decision manner to act as a sounding board for new making, independent Directors do not constitute donald Grant investments.
Therefore to ensure there is The Executive Committee comprises the four enough independent oversight of related party Executive Directors: the CEO, deputy CEO, transactions, a committee comprising solely Diversity CFOand Property Director.
of independent directors has been established 9% women post year end to review such matters before The operation of these Committees can be 91% men deciding whether a transaction can progress to found in more detail on the following pages.
the Board for final consideration.
The independent Nonexecutive Directors provide a diverse range of skills and a wealth of business experience both in the UK and Europe, property, finance and corporate governance which will support the successful operation of the Company in the long term.
They bring an independent judgement on issues of company strategy, performance and standards of conduct Composition and constructively challenge the executives Independent and ensure that the obligations towards nonexecutive 40% the Companys Shareholders are met.
Two Executive Nonexecutive Directors, from the Companys 40% major Shareholder Redefine Properties, also serve to represent the views and interests of its own and other Shareholders.
Any constructive challenges or unresolved issues raised by the Nonexecutive Directors nonexecutive 20% arerecorded in the minutes.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 49
