Governance Nominations Committee NomCo The NomCo comprises three independent Nonexecutive Directors led by the Chairman, Greg Clarke.
Board appointments Diversity The NomCo began the year by addressing During the appointment process the NomCo the skill set and diversity of the Board and the sought to broaden the diversity and extend the expertise required to effectively populate each female membership of the Board and specified of the Board Committees.
The NomCo identified that at least one appointment should contribute the need for two additional independent to increasing the Board diversity.
Although a Nonexecutive Directors with appropriate number of female candidates were considered, international expertise, corporate finance or the strength of the Board and the selection of capital market experience.
Russell Reynolds, the best candidate was always the main priority.
anindependent recruitment agency with no prior Appointment terms relationship with the Company, was tasked to Directors are provided with a letter of manage the recruitment process.
61 candidates appointment or service contract detailing the were originally considered, and from a long list terms of their appointment.
of 13candidates, a shortlist comprising two women and one man was selected.
Following All Directors are expected to attend the quarterly the appointments of Robert Orr and Elisabeth Board meetings, quarterly update meetings, any Stheeman in April, the Committees were Committees of which they are a member and reviewed and it was considered that the skills shareholder meetings.
Nonexecutive Directors of Robert and Elisabeth would benefit the are expected to make themselves available for a Investment Committee due to their extensive minimum of eight days per year in the discharge The interests of knowledge of the international property and of their duties.
each independent The Board has agreed that any Director may, In the New Year, a similar recruitment process if necessary in the furtherance of their duties, Director are was undertaken for the search for a new Chief take independent professional advice at the Financial Officer, following the announcement Companys expense, subject to having first monitored to ensure in December that Andrew Rowell intended to notified the Company Secretary.
Any such leave the Company in May 2015.
Kennedy payment by the Company would, of course, their position is not Pearce, an independent recruitment agency, besubject to any restriction under company law.
was appointed to assist with the recruitment compromised.
The Company has liability insurance which process.
40 candidates, including five women, covers Directors and officers of the Company were considered for the position, from which and any subsidiary company of Redefine Greg Clarke a shortlist of three men was drawn up.
Chairman of the Grant was appointed in August 2015.
Nominations Committee Membership and meetings The NomCo operates within Terms of Reference a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
During the reporting year, four meetings were held by the Committee.
Appointed Meetings Greg Clarke 25 10 2011 4 4 Gavin Tipper 30 07 2014 3 4 Sue Ford 30 01 2014 4 4 54 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Meetings with key advisers were set up, Conflict of interest policy Reelection of independent Directors as required, and tours of the Companys Directors are not, without the consent of the The interests of each independent Director propertiesundertaken.
Board, to accept any other appointment or enter is monitored to ensure their position is into any arrangement which might reasonably be not compromised and checked each year The Chairman reviewed the training and expected to lead to a conflict of interest arising.
against the requirements of the UK Corporate development of each Director during the Governance Code, to ensure their independence Companys evaluation process and encouraged Furthermore, Directors must not hold any is still valid.
the Directors to update their skills, knowledge directorships of any company other than the and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their Company or a subsidiary of the Company The Chairman is satisfied that Michael Farrow, roles on the Board.
At each Board meeting a of which any Director of the Company or any Gavin Tipper, Sue Ford and Robert Orr remain specialist speaker, such as lawyers, brokers and of its subsidiaries or of the property adviser independent in both character and judgement financial risk managers, is invited to present on a or property manager to the Company or any and adhere to the independence criteria of topic relevant to current Company issues.
shareholder of such entities is also a Director the Code and recommends that independent without the prior written approval of the Board.
Shareholders vote in favour of their reelection Succession planning atthe Annual General Meeting.
Any possible appointments are discussed with The NomCo has been actively engaged the Chairman to ensure there are no conflicts of In accordance with LR 13.8.
17 extended during the year in longterm senior succession interest or that a Directors independence is not biographies of the independent Directors have planning.
In particular the Chairman has been compromised.
In cases where a possible conflict been provided in the Notice of Meeting detailing personally managing the development of the arises the Chairman refers the matter to the the effectiveness of each Director and how each Deputy CEO, Stephen Oakenfull, involving NomCo, and then the Board, as was the case of was initially selected.
mentoring, arranging external residential Elisabeth Stheeman, where the emergence of a management development programmes and Their biographies can be found on pages 46 and potential conflict of interest relating to another increased external networking.
47 and are contained in the Notice ofMeeting.
role led to her departure.
Directors reelection Greg Clarke Directors induction and training All Directors will be standing for reelection at Chairman of the Nominations Committee During the year, the induction programme the AGM on 26 January 2016.
The Chairman was reviewed by the Company Secretary considers that each of the Directors continue and the Chairman of the NomCo to make it to be effective members of the Board, that more engaging.
As a result, the executive collectively they hold the requisite range of skills team provided an induction afternoon for the to enable the Board to operate successfully, new Directors, presenting an overview of the and the Directors function well together as a historical activities of the Group, funding options team.
The Chairman therefore recommends and providers and property details.
Further all Directors for reelection at the AGM on information was provided of the Companys 26January 2016. ethical standards, its key business and risks and the latest financial information for the Group.
Directors were also given the Terms of Reference of the Board and its Committees and a list of matters reserved for the Board.
Further information was provided tailored to the needs of each Director.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 55
