Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee performs a key oversight role for the Board The Audit Committee provides and operates within defined Terms a forum for discussion and debate.
Its key role is to gain of Reference which are available assurance around the processes on the Companys website at that support financial reporting, www.
Once again, these including the valuation of the property portfolio: risk were refreshed during the year management: internal control: to ensure that they fully reflected and legal and regulatory relevant changes in legislation and compliance in relation to the work of the Committee, together best practice.
with the financial reporting itself.
I chair the Committee, which had four scheduled Doug Webb meetings and two ad hoc meetings in 2015.
Chairman of the As the Chief Financial Officer of Meggitt plc, Audit Committee a member of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, I satisfy the requirement of the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code to bring recent and relevant financial Areas of focus experience to the Committee.
The Board ensuring the quality and consistency of the financial reporting: considers that all Committee members are appropriately qualified and have the expertise leading a competitive tender of the external auditor: required, and the relevant competency in the assessing the viability statement process: and property and financial sectors, as they each hold, or have held, senior office in business and have gaining assurance around the valuation process.
the knowledge and the experience to properly discharge their duties, understanding the issues under consideration.
More information on the Focus 2016 Committee members and their experience monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, and reviewing and challenging them can be found on pages 76 and 77.
In addition, as appropriate: the Committee is supported by members of the senior management of the Company and embedding PwC as the new external auditor and updating the policy for the use of the by the external and internal auditors whose external auditor for non-audit services: representatives regularly attend meetings.
assessing the independence of the valuers and reviewing the adequacy of the valuation By invitation, there were a number of additional process: and attendees at each of the Committees meetings.
reviewing evolving legislation and best practice on audit reform.
These regularly included the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, and the internal and external auditors.
Presentations were also given by the Attendance of Committee meetings Chief Investment Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Business Information Doug Webb Chairman 4 4 Systems and Risk Management, the Head Christopher Fisher 4 4 of Treasury and Tax, the Director of Tax and the General Counsel and Group Company Margaret Ford 4 4 Secretary.
The Committee has met privately 1 3 4 Martin Moore with the internal and external auditors on two occasions each during the year, to satisfy 4 Total itself that neither has been unduly influenced by management being present at meetings.
1 Martin Moore was unable to attend the February 2015 Audit Committee meeting as he had to attend a funeral.
In January 2016, I also met privately with the 87 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee Report continued Companys valuers, CBRE and JLL, to ensure As stated on page 65 of the Principal Risks, that I was comfortable with their independence the Board has made the viability statement as valuers and with the overall 2015 year-end required by the Code.
A lot of the focus valuation process.
of the Committees work during 2015 has been in gaining comfort around the process During 2015, the Committee has, on behalf of followed to allow the Directors to make this the Board, provided independent scrutiny of the viability statement.
An explanation of how processes in place to monitor the Companys the Committee has supported the Board financial and non-financial reporting, and has in this regard is on page 90 of this Report.
overseen the adequacy of the risk management The Committee has also considered the analysis process and the systems of internal control that was undertaken to support the additional of the Group, as well as the performance of disclosures in the going concern statement and both the external and internal audit functions.
in respect of the assessment and monitoring of The Committee has satisfied itself that the risk introduced bythe Code.
controls over the accuracy and consistency of information presented in the Annual Report are The regular discussion and challenge that robust, and has confirmed to the Board that the the Committee has with senior employees, processes and controls around the preparation the external and internal auditors and the of the Annual Report are appropriate allowing valuers, together with the quality of reports the Board to make the fair, balanced and and information, has enabled the Committee understandable statement on page 112. to appropriately discharge its duties and responsibilities.
I would like to thank Deloitte Valuation is a key determinant of the Groups for the continuing high standard of the audit results and employee remuneration.
As such, the services they have provided to the Group this Committee scrutinises the valuation process of year, which is the last financial year for which both the full and half year to ensure it is robust they will be external auditor.
Further information on the Committees work in this area is set out in Chart1 on page 89.
Doug Webb The Committee is responsible for overseeing Chairman of the Audit Committee and challenging the Groups risk management process to ensure that all key risks identified were correctly prioritised and resourced.
The Committee led the competitive tender process which led to its recommendation to the Board and subsequently to shareholders, to appoint  LLP PwC as external auditor for 2016.
Further details on the tender process are set out on pages 91 and 92 of this Report, as well as in the case study on page 93.
The Committee is mindful of shareholder views on the ratio and level of audit and non-audit fees received by the external auditor, as well as the provisions of the Code and UK and EU reforms in this respect, and has taken this into account in its recommendation that PwC be appointed as external auditor for the 2016 financial year.
88 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements for significant transactions, and was a Overseeing matters relating to tax and any 2015 principal activities substantial focus of the Committees work for potential impact such matters may have on Reviewing the integrity, consistency and the year.
the integrity of the financial statements.
key accounting judgements made by management to ensure that the quality of the Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Considering emerging best practice in relation Companys financial reporting is maintained, risk management and internal control systems.
to corporate governance and reporting.
including going concern, in the Companys Following a review of legislation and Chart 1 below sets out the significant matters halfand full-year financial statements.
guidelines, in particular, with respect to considered by the Committee during the year in Ensuring the process followed to support the audit rotation and the level of non-audit to relation to the financial reporting, and the actions making of the viability statement was robust audit fees, received by the external auditor, taken.
Additional time continues to be spent and correctly followed.
conducting a competitive tender of the by Committee members meeting with senior external auditor.
employees to understand the key issues.
Assessing the independence of the valuers of the Groups property portfolio and gaining Reviewing and checking the independence assurance around the valuation process.
and effectiveness of the internal and external This is the largest area of judgement for the auditors, and also the level of non-audit fees of Committee in connection with the Companys the external auditor.
financial statements, together with accounting Chart 1: 2015 significant matters Significant matter The action taken The Committee ensured that there was a robust process in place to satisfy itself that the Valuation of the property portfolio valuation of the property portfolio was carried out appropriately and independently.
Two Valuation is central to the business and is a significant area of judgement valuers, CBRE and JLL, each a leading firm in the UK and Continental European property for the Committee as it is inherently subjective, because the valuers must markets value the Groups portfolio.
CBRE is the valuer for all assets held by the Group make assumptions and judgements in reaching their conclusions.
This is other than those which make up the APP joint venture, which are valued by JLL.
In a recurring risk for the Group as it is key to its IFRS profitability, balance addition, the external auditor has an experienced real estate specialist team of chartered sheet portfolio value, net asset value, total property return, and employee surveyors, who provided assurance to the Committee that the processes used by the valuers incentives.
It also affects investment decisions and the implementation of were appropriate, by reviewing and challenging the valuers approach, assumptions and the Companys disciplined capital allocation policy.
It is included on the Risk judgements.
Following the internal audit of the valuation process which took place in 2014, Register and the process risk map as a potential key business risk.
the Committee was familiar with the way that management provided information to the The Committee is responsible for the assurance of the valuation process and valuers, and remained satisfied that the process was well run with appropriate controls in for assessing the independence of the valuers.
The Board, with the Committee members present, met twice with the valuers of both the wholly owned and joint-venture assets to review, debate and consider the valuation process: understand any particular issues encountered in the valuation: and discuss the processes and methodologies used.
The Chairman also met separately with CBRE and JLL to discuss such matters.
By meeting with the valuers in the absence of management, the Chairman was able to scrutinise the valuation process and ensure the valuers remained independent, objective and effective.
A full and frank discussion could take place to ascertain that undue influence had not been placed on the valuation process.
The valuers were asked to highlight any significant judgements made, or disagreements with management.
On the basis of the above, the Committee concluded that the valuations had been carried out prudently and appropriately, and in accordance with the professional standards which the valuers must comply with, and were therefore suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see Note 15 and Note 1 of the financial statements.
89 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee Report continued Significant matter The action taken The Committee, together with the external auditor, considered the accounting treatment of Accounting for significant acquisitions, disposals and investments key, complex transactions during 2015, by reviewing managements individual papers on During the year, the Company made a number of acquisitions, disposals and accounting proposals and judgements and discussing them withmanagement, the external investments, some of which were large and complex.
Certain transactions auditor and as a Committee.
were considered to be significant because of the level of materiality involved Such transactions included the acquisition of the former Nestl site at Hayes, and or any unusual terms or conditions or judgements, and because of the GreaterLondon: the disposal of Energy Park, Milan: the acquisition of a 90 per cent interest risks inherent in the accounting process, including when a transaction should in Vailog S. r. l. : the dissolution of the Big Box joint venture with M&G and subsequent be recognised, and what the appropriate accounting treatment should be.
acquisition of Axis Park, Langley by the Group, and sale of Heathrow Corporate Park, Green The accounting treatment of acquisitions, disposals and investments Lane, Hounslow and Heathrow Cargo Handling to M&G: the swap of Ventura Park, Radlett themselves, is a recurring risk for the Group and is considered to be for a modern distribution warehouse in Brackmills, Northampton: the swap of Polar Park, significant as an inappropriate approach could cause a misstatement of the Heathrow and Fairway Trading, Heathrow for Allport Cargo Services, Hayes, West London Groups financial position and or results.
The application of the accounting with Hermes: and the disposal of the Bath Road offices portfolio in Slough which completed treatment to each particular transaction is generally new and unique to the in January 2016. matter in question.
Following a review of the accounting treatment for the significant transactions, in particular at what point each transaction should be recognised and the goodwill treatment of the Vailog business contribution, the Committee was satisfied that all relevant issues had been fully and adequately addressed and that the approach adopted bymanagement was appropriate in each case, and in accordance with IFRS.
The Committee challenged management in respect of the application of policy and internal controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewer reports from the internal auditors, external auditors and management.
The Committee also agreed managements treatment for the appropriate cut off for inclusion in the financial statements of a number of transactions.
For further details of the accounting treatment applied to such significant transactions, see Note 1 of the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the interest rate swap restructuring carried out during 2015 Accounting for financing transactions and valuation of complex seepage 56 of the Financial Review for further detail, and challenged both management financial instruments and the external auditor on the treatment of it through a review of the papers prepared This is considered to be a significant matter for the Committee since the by management.
The Committee also challenged both management and the external Groups balance sheet holds complex financial instruments including swaps auditor on the accounting treatment of other financing transactions which occurred during and derivatives with an element of judgement made by management as to the year.
TheCommittee was satisfied, based on the above actions that management had their treatment.
The amounts in question are also material to the Group.
This appropriately accounted for those transactions and had correctly valued the resulting is a recurring risk.
At year-end, derivative financial instruments had a total andexisting financial instruments.
net fair value of 55.8 million .
Going concern is a matter for the whole Board to consider, however the Committee takes Ensuring the appropriateness of the process for preparing the responsibility for reviewing the Groups headroom under its covenants and undrawn bank financial statements on agoing concern basis facilities to ensure that the Company can remain a going concern.
A significant potential risk of the Company is its solvency and liquidity, and Management submitted a report to the Committee which, amongst other matters, set the appropriateness of preparing the financial statements on a going concern out theGroups liquidity position, covenant headroom, cash flow forecasts, and sensitivity basis.
Incorrectly assessing the ability of the Company to continue as a analyses.
Following review, the Committee regards the current risks associated with going going concern through inappropriate or weak processes could result in a concern as low.
The Committee is also satisfied that the processes used for determining misstatement of the Groups financial position and or results of the Group, the value of the assets and liabilities a key determinant of covenant headroom have been and an inability for the Group to remain in operation.
appropriately reviewed and are sufficiently robust.
A focus of the Committee throughout 2015 The Committee reviewed and challenged the UK Corporate Governance Code was to ensure that the process put in place to working groups assumptions on the proposed The Financial Reporting Council updated the allow the Board to make the viability statement, period for which the viability statement was Code in 2014, and set out new regulations on which is on page 65 of the Principal Risks, was suggested to be made, and ensured that the risk management, internal control and related robust and had been correctly and properly Risk Register had been assessed and reviewed financial and business reporting.
A working group was established, in order that the Companys principal risks were adopted in the 2014 Annual Report.
composed of the Group Finance Director, the and uncertainties, where appropriate, were The changes apply to the Companys 2015 Head of Business Information Systems and Risk properly captured in the scenarios which would financial year and are reported on in this Annual Management, the Head of Treasury and Tax, be used to stress test the Companys viability.
During the year, the Committees Terms the Head of Financial Planning and the Legal Suggested scenarios were presented to the of Reference were updated to ensure that they Counsel, to consider how to approach the Committee and approved.
The Committee is fully reflected all relevant changes introduced viability statement and assess the work required comfortable with the process followed to allow by the Code.
The Committee is updated on to be carried out, to give the Board comfort.
the Board to make the viability statement, and new UK and EU laws, regulations, governance The Committee received frequent updates on has confirmed this to the Board.
initiatives and best practice to ensure that the the progress made and regularly confirmed Company complies with them as necessary.
its approval of the process being adopted.
90 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements considering and assessing controls over IT, During the year, the Code of Ethics which Fair, Balanced and Understandable including in respect of cyber security: incorporates the Companys anti-bribery and The Directors are required to confirm that they corruption policies, was refreshed.
It explains consider, taken as a whole, that the Annual reviewing and considering internal control how employees are expected to behave to fulfil Report is fair, balanced and understandable systems, including ensuring there is a clear their responsibility to act in the best interests and provides the information necessary organisational structure with established of the Company and its shareholders, which for shareholders to assess the Companys lines of responsibility and appropriate levels includes ensuring compliance with relevant performance, business model and strategy.
of delegation: laws and regulations relating to anti-bribery The Directors statement on fair, balanced and and corruption.
In operating its anti-bribery setting the internal audit programme and understandable is on page 112.
In order to make and corruption policies and procedures, new reviewing the implementation and progress of this statement, the Board agreed the key overall employees are required to complete a specific recommendations made by the internal audit messages of the Annual Report at an early stage online training module when they join and function, together with the independence, and ensured that the due diligence exercise regular updates are given to all employees appropriateness and effectiveness of the performed in previous years was again followed.
In addition, the Companys internal auditor: Those individuals with overall responsibility for suppliers are also required to have equivalent each section of the Annual Report were briefed determining the external auditors fees, policies and procedures of their own in place.
on the Code requirements and were given its ratio of non-audit to audit fees, its The whistleblowing policy sets out the procedure a set of criteria by which to assess whether effectiveness andits independence: and by which both employees and any third parties their respective sections were fair, balanced can use a confidential service provided by reviewing the Companys procedures on antiand understandable.
Regular review meetings an external company to raise concerns by bribery and corruption, and whistleblowing, were also held to ensure consistency of tone email or telephone, whether in relation to and ensuring that they are adequate.
Detailed reviews of appropriate financial reporting or other matters.
A report draft sections were carried out by the relevant on whistleblowing matters is made to each Directors.
Additionally, senior employees not Internal control framework meeting and any matters reported are promptly directly involved in the drafting of the Annual The Committee is responsible for reviewing the and fully investigated, with external support Report were then asked to assess the document internal control systems on behalf of the Board.
as a whole, against the same criteria given to This review is consistent with the Code and the authors.
Comments were incorporated into covers all material areas of the Group, including External auditor competitive tender the final version of the document which was risk management see page 64 of Principal Risks submitted for approval by the Board on a timely The Committee has primary responsibility for and compliance with controls.
The Committee basis to allow sufficient scope for consideration.
leading the process for selecting the external also monitors the effectiveness of the framework The Committee has satisfied itself that the auditor.
It is required to make appropriate through reports from the Group Finance controls over the consistency and accuracy of recommendations on the external auditor Director and Group Financial Controller and the information presented in the Annual Report through the Board to the shareholders to the internal and external auditors on progress are robust and has confirmed to the Board that consider at the 2016 AGM.
During 2015, the with internal control activities.
The Committee the process for recommending that the Board Committee considered the regulatory changes reviews a schedule which lists all outstanding include the fair, balanced and understandable introduced by the Code, the Competition and control points, notes the priority attaching to statement is appropriate and proper.
Markets Authority and the EU, i on audit them and progress against agreed timeframes rotation, which require the Company to tender for resolution.
The Committee confirms that it its auditor every 10 years: and ii which impose Further work undertaken by has not been advised of or identified any failings a cap on the level of non-audit fees that the theCommittee or weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
In addition to issues directly affecting The Company does not tolerate fraud, the financial statements, the scope of the impropriety or dishonesty of any kind and Committees work also encompassed many the Committee is responsible for overseeing other aspects, including: and monitoring the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures, which reviewing and considering the process of includes its policy on whistleblowing, to identifying and managing risk, including plans safeguard against this.
As well as the anti-bribery for managing and mitigating against risks: and corruption report which the Committee monitoring the work of the Risk Committee, receives at each meeting, an internal audit on for further details see page 64 of the Principal anti-bribery and corruption was carried out in Risks, and discussing specific risk presentations 2015 which gave the Committee additional which were delivered on key business areas comfort that robust policies and procedures to ensure that risk management is promoted were in place.
There were no reported matters throughout the business: or causes of concern during 2015.
91 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit Committee Report continued Deloitte was appointed as the external auditor in External auditor remuneration Chart 2: Audit and non-audit fees 2007, and has been reappointed each year since and independence toDeloitte then.
The most recent audit partner rotation 2015 2014 2013 The Committee considers the remuneration took place before the 2012 year-end audit.
and independence of the external auditor at Audit fees including There were no contractual obligations which related assurance services least on a semi-annual basis and approves its restricted the Committees choice of external m 0.71 0.65 0.65 remuneration.
The Committee keeps under auditor or which put in place a minimum period Non-audit fees m 0.22 0.28 0.63 close review the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for Deloittes tenure.
The Committee has been to ensure that the independence and objectivity Ratio of non-audit fees satisfied with the quality of the audit provided, toaudit fees % 31 43 97 of the external auditor are safeguarded.
as well as with the independence of Deloitte The Committees policy for the use of the as auditor.
The above table excludes fees paid to Deloitte in external auditor for non-audit services recognises respect of joint ventures.
If these were included, that there are certain circumstances where, In light of increasing focus on auditor rotation, the 2015 ratio of audit to non-audit fees would due to Deloittes expertise and knowledge of it was considered appropriate to tender the have been 30 per cent.
the Company or sector in which it operates, external auditor earlier than was required.
it will often be in the best position to perform The Committee led the external auditor non-audit services.
The Committee monitors Internal audit competitive tender process which is set out in the use of Deloitte Real Estate and adherence more detail in the case study on page 93.
As a Assurance of the risk management processes, to this policy, which is available to view at result of the increasing external regulatory focus testing of internal controls and setting the www.
Under the policy, the use of on the ratio of non-audit to audit fees, Deloitte internal audit programme continued to be the external auditor for non-audit services is was not invited to take part in the tender due to priorities for the Committee in 2015. subject to pre-clearance by the Chief Executive the Companys continued desire to use Deloitte In order to determine the internal audit Officer, Group Finance Director, the Committee Real Estate for non-audit services.
programme for 2015, as in previous years, the Chairman or the Committee, should the Following the completion of the competitive Group Finance Director, the Group Financial proposed fee exceed specified thresholds.
tender process, a new external auditor, PwC, Controller, the Head of Business Information During the year, Deloitte Real Estate advised the was identified for the 2016 financial year, and a Systems and Risk Management, and the Company on various property related matters.
recommendation was made by the Committee Director of Finance: The policy for use of the external auditor for to the Board.
It is intended that following non-audit services will be updated to reflect the reviewed the latest Group Risk Register: Deloittes resignation on completion of its 2015 change in auditor once it is effective.
audit work, the Board will appoint PwC to fill prepared a process risk map setting out key In 2015, fees for audit and related assurance the casual vacancy left by Deloittes resignation, business and process risks from the Group services, excluding joint ventures, amounted pending the approval of the appointment Risk Register: to 710,000 and the non-audit fees amounted by shareholders at the 2016 Annual selected topics for the internal audit to 220,000.
165,000 of the non-audit fees General Meeting.
programme, based on the Group Risk were attributable to work undertaken by Deloitte Register and process risk map, paying Real Estate.
Further details of these fees, and External audit effectiveness particular attention to key risks which have fees in respect of the audit of certain of the In accordance with the Code, the Committee notbeen subject to recent internal audit: and Groups joint ventures for which Deloitte is the assesses the effectiveness of the external auditor, are provided in Note 6 ii to the financial discussed and agreed the internal audit audit process on an annual basis.
The three year average of the nonprogramme with the internal auditor.
evaluation process, taking into account audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees to the the views of the Committee and relevant year ended 2015 is 56 per cent.
Chart 2 sets out The process for determining the internal audit employees, is considered by the Committee.
the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for each of programme and the programme itself were Following a review of the 2015 year-end the past three years.
both approved by the Committee which believes audit, the Committee considers that it was that it is appropriate and effective, particularly appropriately planned, scoped and executed.
The Committee and the Committee Chairman since there is scope for the Company to react individually have had a number of private It is satisfied that Deloitte continued to to events, new information and situations which perform effectively as the external auditor and meetings with the lead audit partner and come to light during the year and include them each are satisfied that Deloitte continued managements role in the audit process operated in the internal audit plan if necessary.
to provide appropriate levels of scepticism review of the 2016 proposed audit plan in 2015, and challenge and remained independent.
changes were agreed to be made.
Deloitte has provided written confirmation ofitsindependence to the Committee.
92 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements During the year, internal audits were carried Each of these audits confirmed that these areas the relevant Committee meeting to present its out on: were appropriately controlled, although some report and attends private meetings with the enhancements were identified which were Committee to raise any concerns or issues it has anti-bribery and corruption policies and entered into the schedule which lists control and to discuss any queries of the Committee in adherence to them: points which require improvement actions the absence of management.
seeinternal control framework on page 91. acquisitions and disposals: In 2016, the Committee will continue to The Committee believes that the value of follow a risk-based approach to internal audit.
the captive insurance programme: internal audit is enhanced by having a third Items scheduled for future internal audit reviews the key processes in those offices which are party perform this function, as this supports the include: business continuity planning and outside of our four largest countries: independent challenge of management and disaster recovery: insurance captive which is gives greater access to expertise than an internal required to be audited annually : governance HR procedures: function could provide.
KPMG has performed of the Companys joint ventures: compliance risk management processes: the role throughout the year.
Once each internal with the external communications policy and audit is complete, a questionnaire is issued by procedures: accounts receivables policies relating health and safety practices: KPMG to the process owner for the internal to debtors, bad debt policies and payment plans, the payroll function: audit in question as well as to the other relevant cash collection and credit control processes: sales employees, to ensure that real-time feedback is and invoicing: developments: leasing: employee process and procedures in place for collected on the quality and effectiveness of its expenses procedures: procurement: and a determining the service charges invoiced audit.
The results of this feedback are provided review of the integration of Vailog.
toour customers: and to the Committee along with detailed findings treasury policies and procedures.
and recommendations of the internal audits themselves.
The internal auditor also attends External auditor tender The Committee is responsible for leading the process of potential risks: the independence of the proposed Director, the Group Financial Controller and the for selecting the external auditor.
As I explained on external auditor and a lack of conflicts of interest: Finance Director, GreaterLondon where they formally pages 91 and 92 of this Report, the Committee, having audit quality, including audit approach and planning presented their credentials and plans.
Attendees at carefully considered the regulatory changes introduced and a thorough and robust transition plan: real estate these meetings reported back to the Audit Committee by the Competition and Markets Authority and the EU, sector credentials across Europe: the proposed teams with their thoughts on the firms.
on audit rotation and the level of audit and non-audit experience, together with their availability and speed of Following consideration of the presentations by each fees received by the external auditor, together with technical advice: the firms overseas network: value for firm that tendered, together with their response to the shareholder views on such topics, decided to carry out money: references: and cultural fit.
exam-style question, and having taken into account the a competitive external auditor tender process in which We set the firms who were invited to tender an views of those employees who met with each firm, the Deloitte was not invited to take part.
exam-style question to test the quality of their technical Audit Committee identified PwC as the proposed new The Committee, working alongside certain senior advice.
They were also invited to a series of meetings external auditor and made such a recommendation to management who are involved in the annual audit, both in the UK and Continental Europe, where they the Board.
The Board accepted the recommendation prepared the scope of the tender process, including had the opportunity to meet employees from across and it is proposed that following the resignation of which firms would be invited to take part, and agreed the business, including those responsible for financial Deloitte after the completion of the 2015 year-end a proposed timetable.
We considered it important that reporting, risk management, tax and treasury, and audit and Annual Report, PwC be appointed by the proposed new external auditor could be identified legal and regulatory compliance.
Each firm had equal the Board as external auditor, pending shareholder in sufficient time to allow it to shadow the work of access to employees and Company information.
Deloitte in the 2015 year-end audit, prior to taking An electronic data room was set up by the Company onresponsibility for the 2016 audit.
containing key information to help the firms gain a better understanding of the Company and its business.
Those factors which we considered important to focus Doug Webb Finally, each firm attended a meeting with myself, on in selecting a new external auditor were discussed Chairman of the Audit Committee Christopher Fisher, a member of the Audit Committee, and agreed at an early stage.
These included an the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance understanding of the Companys business and areas 93 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
