Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee, which I chair, is responsible for: The Nomination reviewing the size, structure Committees key and composition of the Board: role is to ensure that making recommendations about the Board has the new appointments to the Board: and ensuring that any such appropriate skills, appointment process is formal, knowledge and rigorous and transparent.
experience to operate effectively and deliver During 2015, the main focus of the our strategy.
Committee was the appointment Nigel Rich CBE of a new Chairman to succeed me.
Chairman The case study by Margaret Ford on page 86 sets out the process that was followed.
I did not attend the meetings when my succession Areas of focus was being discussed.
the appointment of an independent Chairman: the size, structure and composition of the Board: and Nigel Rich CBE the proposal for the reappointment of Directors at the 2016 AGM.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Skills on the Board, appraisal process and Focus 2016 reappointment of Directors and succession the Companys diversity policy: and planning Each year, the Committee reviews the skills and the size, structure and composition of the Board.
experience of the Board to ensure that it is the right size and has the appropriate balance of skills and experience to operate effectively and to deliver our strategy.
Attendance of Committee meetings The Senior Independent Director leads an annual performance review of the Chairman, 1 Nigel Rich Chairman 2 5 while the Chairman leads the appraisal of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the Christopher Fisher 5 5 other Executive Directors is appraised by the Margaret Ford 5 5 Chief Executive, with feedback from the other Directors where appropriate.
2 Mark Robertshaw 2 2 Following these appraisal processes, the David Sleath 5 5 Committee concluded that each of the 3 Doug Webb 3 3 Directors continues to make an effective contribution to the Board.
It also considered Total 5 the time commitments of the Non-Executives 1 Nigel Rich did not attend the Nomination Committee meetings when his own succession was considered.
Directors, in particular Baroness Ford and 2 Mark Robertshaw stepped down from the Nomination Committee after the May 2015 meeting.
Gerald Corbett, and concluded that each of 3 Doug Webb joined the Nomination Committee at the July 2015 meeting.
the Directors had sufficient time to commit to the Company.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Meeting see AGM Resolutions 85 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report continued Skills and experience of the Non-Executive Directors Nigel Margaret Christopher Martin Mark Doug Experience Rich Ford Fisher Moore Robertshaw Webb Real Estate Investment Banking Broking Financial Management General Management International Markets UK Public Company Line Management an explanation.
Each of the Directors will be Diversity The pace at which we improve diversity on the proposed for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Board and in senior management positions will The Committee reviews regularly the Companys depend, to some extent, on the availability of policy on diversity.
The Board recognises the Details of the Non-Executive Directors suitable vacancies as well as suitable candidates.
benefits of diversity in its broadest sense and the letters of appointment and their fees are value this brings to the organisation in terms of setout in the Remuneration Report and the SEGRO has a good record of promoting and skills, knowledge and experiences.
appointing women to senior roles, with women to gender it does not wish to increase the size holding five out of the 19 positions on its Annually, the Leadership Team assesses talent at of the Board solely to enable further women Leadership Team.
The Company offers flexible all levels across the Group to ensure that there to be appointed.
When vacancies do arise, the training and mentoring programmes to ensure are effective Group and individual development remit to the search consultants will be, as with that all employees achieve their potential, taking plans in place.
The Executive Committee also the appointment of Gerald Corbett, to select account of their individual development needs.
considers succession planning so that for every candidates from a wide range of backgrounds SEGRO continues to be an equal opportunities senior role, plans are prepared for temporary to satisfy the Boards fundamental obligation employer and will maintain its merit-based and emergency cover and for longer-term to ensure that the most suitable candidates approach to recruitment.
The Group HR Director and Chief are appointed to promote the success of the participates in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Executive present annually to the Board on Company as well as to comply with equal Mentoring Programme.
talent management and succession planning for opportunities regulations.
the Executive Directors and senior executives Details of the gender diversity of the Board and below Board level.
across the Company are set out on page 47 and the Companys diversity policy is available on the website.
When Nigel Rich announced in July 2015 that he This profile was shared with Zygos and, in September Appointment of would be retiring from the Board at the 2016 AGM, 2015, I presented to the Committee a list of candidates I took responsibility as Senior Independent Director who had expressed interest in the role.
It was agreed for leading the process to identify and appoint his that David Sleath and I would conduct separately the new Chairman successor.
Nigel, as the current Chairman, was not first round of interviews and then agree a shortlist with involved in this process.
The remaining Committee members interviewed these shortlisted candidates who were also I chaired the Nomination Committee meetings where invited on a private tour of the Slough Trading Estate.
At our first meeting, we agreed to appoint The Zygos Partnership to lead I felt it was important that, although the Committee the search.
The Committee had worked with Zygos was leading the process, the whole Board should be before, for Martin Moores appointment, and we felt involved in this appointment.
Accordingly, I updated they understood the Company and its culture.
the Directors regularly at each stage of the process andreceived their feedback.
The Committees first task was to agree a role specification.
We evaluated the skills, experience Gerald Corbett emerged as the preferred candidate and knowledge of the existing Board members and and, at this stage, he was offered meetings with some then considered the qualities that the successful of the other Non-Executive Directors.
As part of candidate should demonstrate.
In particular, we wanted his own due diligence, he also met with the Group Nigels successor to have: a strong track record as a Company Secretary, the Group Finance Director listed company chairman, including familiarity and andspoke with the Companys audit partner.
currency with the investor community: independence The Committee concluded its work by making a upon appointment: well developed and positive recommendation to the Board to appoint Gerald as chairmanship skills, combined with a good intellect: an independent Non-Executive Director in March the ability to fit well with the current Board and 2016 to succeed Nigel Rich as Chairman following the Company culture: tenure sufficient to ensure that the 2016 AGM.
I was delighted that the Board accepted successful candidate would be in place for future Board this recommendation and look forward to welcoming succession: and would have sufficient time to devote Gerald to his first meeting in March.
Margaret Ford Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 86 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
