Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our Board Doug Webb Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Rich Chairman Christopher Fisher Independent Non-Executive Director Martin Moore Independent Non-Executive Director Phil Redding Chief Investment Officer 74 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Andy Gulliford David Sleath Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Justin Read Group Finance Director Mark Robertshaw Independent Non-Executive Director Baroness Ford Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 75 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Biographies Nigel Rich CBE David Sleath Justin Read Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Appointed: 1 October 2006 Appointed: 1 January 2006 Appointed: 30 August 2011 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Nigel brings considerable experience of working at Board David has considerable knowledge of the Company and Justins previous roles have given him financial and level as a Chairman, an Executive and Non-Executive the real estate sector and has broad experience of financial management experience working across a number Director.
Nigel has had senior management roles in and general management and of the professional services ofdifferent industry sectors, including support services, finance and general management in companies with industry.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered building materials, theme parks and banking and across property assets in various sectors including commercial, Accountants in England and Wales.
industrial and residential, in Hong Kong and the UK.
He isa Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Current Appointments Current Appointments in England and Wales.
David was appointed Chief Executive in April 2011, Justin joined the Company as Group Finance Director having served as Finance Director since 2006.
Current Appointments Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman Nigel was appointed Chairman in October 2006, having of Bunzl plc, a Board member of the European Public Real Previous Appointments joined as a Non-Executive Director earlier that year.
He is Estate Association, and Vice President and Board member Between 2008 and 2011 he was Group Finance Director a Non-Executive Director of Matheson & Co Ltd, Pacific of the British Property Federation.
Prior to this, Justin spent 13 years in a Assets Trust plc and British Empire Securities and General variety of roles at Hanson plc, including Deputy Finance Trust plc.
Previous Appointments Director, Managing Director of Hanson Continental He has previously held a number of senior finance roles, Europe, Head of Corporate Development, Head of Previous Appointments including Finance Director of Wagon plc and partner at Risk Management and Group Treasurer.
Justin has Group Chief Executive of Trafalgar House plc Group, Arthur Andersen, where he worked for 17 years.
also held positions at Euro Disney S. C. A. and Bankers Managing Director of Jardine Matheson Holdings and Trust Company.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Managing Director of HongKong Land.
He was previously Aged 54 Chairman of Xchanging plc, Exel plc, CP Ships and the Aged 54 residential agents Hamptons.
He is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Aged 70 Christopher Fisher Baroness Ford Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 October 2012 Appointed: 1 January 2013 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Christopher has spent his career in corporate finance Baroness Ford has considerable experience of the real and has over 10 years of plc Board experience.
estate market and the support services sector and over 20 years experience at Board level at private and listed Current Appointments companies.
She is an Honorary Member of the Royal He is Chairman of Bank of Ireland UK and of the AA, Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
a senioradviser at Penfida, a firm providing corporate finance advice to pension fund trustees, and President Current Appointments ofthe Council of the University of Reading.
Baroness Ford joined the Board in January 2013 and is currently Chairman of STV Group plc and Grainger plc, Previous Appointments and a Non-Executive Director of Taylor Wimpey plc.
Christopher spent most of his career at Lazard, latterly as a Managing Director, and has also been Vice Chairman, Previous Appointments Corporate Finance at KPMG.
He has served as NonPreviously, Baroness Ford was Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director at Yates, Kelda Yorkshire Water ofMay Gurney Integrated Services plc, Barchester and Southern Cross Healthcare and, in the last case, as Healthcare Limited and Grove Limited.
She was also its Chairman in 2011.
He has also served as a trustee Chairman of the Olympic Park Legacy Company.
of the Imperial War Museum and currently chairs its She is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Development Trust.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Aged 58 Aged 62 76 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Andy Gulliford Martin Moore Doug Webb Chief Operating Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 May 2013 Appointed: 1 July 2014 Appointed: 1 May 2010 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Andy has close to 30 years experience in real estate and Martin has 40 years experience in the real estate Doug comes from a corporate financial management brings extensive knowledge of the Company and the real and property sector and he brings extensive industry background and has nine years Board level experience estate sector in both the UK and Continental Europe.
He is knowledge and breadth of experience, having spent as a Chief Financial Officer of listed companies.
He brings a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors hiscareer at Prudential plc.
recent and relevant financial experience to the Board.
Current Appointments Current Appointments Current Appointments Martin was appointed as Non-Executive Director in Doug was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in May Andy was appointed Chief Operating Officer at SEGRO in July2014.
He is currently Senior Independent Director 2010.
He is currently the Chief Financial Officer of Meggitt November 2011, having joined SEGRO in 2004.
He was of F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd, Non-Executive plc, a member of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors appointed as an Executive Director in May 2013.
Director of the M&G Asia Property Fund and Secure and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Income Reit plc.
He is an adviser at Kohlberg Kravis England and Wales.
Previous Appointments Roberts & Co. LLP and Gener8, and a Commissioner of Andy was previously SEGROs Managing Director for Historic England.
Prior to this, he was the Director of Between 2008 and 2012 he was Chief Financial Officer Corporate Acquisitions and also Business Development Previous Appointments of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Before joining SEGRO, Andy spent 19 years Martin was Chief Executive at M&G Real Estate from Chief Financial Officer of QinetiQ Group plc and Financial atJones Lang LaSalle, latterly as European Director for 1996and Chairman from 2012 until his retirement in Director Continental Europe and Chief Financial Officer thecompanys industrial and logistics business.
He has been an Adviser and Commissioner of North America at Logica plc.
Prior to these appointments The Crown Estate, a Board member and President of he spent 12 years at Price Waterhouse.
Aged 53 theBritish Property Federation, and a Board member He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of andChairman of the Investment Property Forum.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Aged 54 Committees.
Aged 59 Phil Redding Mark Robertshaw Elizabeth Blease Chief Investment Officer Independent Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Appointed: 1 May 2013 Appointed: 1 June 2010  Elizabeth joined SEGRO as General Counsel and Group Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Company Secretary in May 2008.
She qualified as a Phil has over 20 years experience in real estate.
He has Mark has extensive experience of working across the solicitor in 1992 with Addleshaw Goddard and was held a variety of appointments within SEGRO and has finance and consultancy sectors.
His perspective as the previously Group Company Secretary at Brammer plc and been instrumental in a number of key transactions for Chief Executive Officer of a large multi-national industrial Marshalls plc.
He is a member of the Royal Institution of business brings additional insight to SEGRO as an Chartered Surveyors MRICS.
Current Appointments Current Appointments Phil was appointed Chief Investment Officer of SEGRO in Mark was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in November 2011, having joined SEGRO in 1995.
He is currently Group Chief Executive of the Board as an Executive Director in May 2013.
Previous Appointments Previous Appointments Phil started his career in 1990 in the Industrial Agency He was previously Chief Executive Officer of Morgan and Development team of King Sturge, where he held Advanced Materials plc, a post he held for eight years a variety of positions.
Prior to becoming an Executive having previously been Chief Operating Officer and Chief Director at SEGRO, he was Business Unit Director for Financial Officer.
Prior to this he was Chief Financial Officer London Markets.
of Gartmore Investment Management plc, and spent nine years with Marakon Associates, a leading management Aged 47 consultancy headquartered in the US.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Aged 47 77 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
