Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance The responsibility of the Board Responsibilities of the Board Board membership Attendance The Board is responsible for creating and Details of the Directors, including the skills All Directors are expected to attend Board delivering sustainable shareholder value.
and experience they each bring to the and Committee meetings of which they are The Directors act in a way they consider will Board, are on pages 76 and 77.
During 2015, there were seven promote the long-term success of the Company comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four scheduled Board meetings.
for the benefit of shareholders, with regard to Executive Directors and five Independent None of the Non-Executive Directors had raised the interests of the Groups employees, and Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are concerns over the time commitment required of the impact of the business on the community, equally responsible for the proper stewardship them to fulfil their duties.
the environment and the interests of and leadership of the Group.
account the provisions of the Code, each of Attendance at Board meetings during 2015 is set the Non-Executive Directors is considered out in the table opposite.
independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman was considered independent on appointment and the Board still considers him to be so.
When approving the appointment of Gerald Corbett the Board concluded he was independent.
Further information is provided in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 85 and 86.
Roles and responsibilities of the Directors The Board is responsible collectively for the success of the Group.
The table below explains the responsibility of each of the Board members.
The division of responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Role Name Responsibilities Chairman Nigel Rich Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making.
Ensures that the corporate governance of the Group is maintained in line with current best practice.
Takes the necessary steps to ensure that all Directors receive the accurate, clear and timely information which they require to enable them to make sound decisions, to monitor the business effectively and to fulfil their duty topromote the success of the Company.
Ensures effective communication with shareholders and stakeholders and makes sure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors.
Chief Executive Officer David Sleath Manages the business of the Group.
Recommends the Groups strategy to the Board and is responsible for the implementation of that strategy.
Executive Directors Andy Gulliford Manage the business operations within each Directors area of responsibility in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Justin Read Phil Redding Independent NonChristopher Fisher Bring independent judgement and scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
Executive Directors Martin Moore Monitor the success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
Mark Robertshaw Doug Webb Senior Independent NonMargaret Ford Acts as a sounding board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
Executive Director Available to shareholders should the occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Group Company Elizabeth Blease Responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Secretary Ensures timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior management.
Ensures compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements.
Gives guidance and advice within the Company on matters of business ethics and good governance.
Is available to give detailed practical support and guidance to Directors both individually and collectively.
78 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The work of the Board Table of attendance Board Role of the Board 7 7 Nigel Rich A number of other unscheduled Board meetings The principal role of the Board is to ensure that 7 7 Christopher Fisher and telephone conference calls were also held the Groups strategy creates and sustains longduring the year, as the need arose.
Each of the term value for its investors.
Details of how the 7 7 Margaret Ford Directors has committed to attend all scheduled Company generates and preserves value are set 1 6 7 Board and Committee meetings and would Andy Gulliford out in the Strategic Report.
The Board retains not do so only in exceptional circumstances.
responsibility for the approval of certain matters 7 7 Martin Moore Similarly, every effort is made by Directors to which include: Group strategy: the annual attend ad hoc meetings either in person or by budget: the dividend policy: major investments 7 7 Justin Read using conference facilities.
and disposals: and the financial structure.
7 7 Phil Redding There is an approved Schedule of Matters On the rare occasion that a Director cannot Reserved for Decision by the Board, which was 7 7 Mark Robertshaw attend a meeting they are still provided with updated during the year.
the papers in advance of the meeting and are David Sleath 7 7 given an opportunity to discuss them with the The day-to-day running of the Group is Chairman or the Chief Executive.
delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive Doug Webb 7 7 who is supported by the Executive Committee.
Total number of meetings 7 1 Andy Gulliford was unable to join the January 2015 Board meeting as he had to attend a funeral.
Key activities of the Board during 2015 Routine Business Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 annual strategic review, noting of the rolling reviews of the performance of presentation from the Companys rolling reviews of the performance Medium-Term Financial Plan and investments and developments over independent valuers on the 2015 ofinvestments and developments settingof medium-term objectives: the previous three years: half-year valuation: overthe previous three years: presentation from the Companys consideration of the outlook for the approval of the 2015 half-year financial consideration of the outlook for the independent valuers on the 2014 property market, both occupier and results and interim dividend: property market, both occupier and full-year valuation: investment, and the economic climate: investment, and the economic climate: approval of Principal Risks: and and approval of the 2015 budget: report on anti-bribery and corruption presentations from the Companys annual strategy day.
approval of 2014 financial results policies and procedures: brokers on shareholders analysts andfinal dividend: attitudes to the Company.
annual review of corporate approval of Principal Risks and governance and an update on risk appetite: corporate regulatory changes andreporting requirements: and review of people strategy, succession planning and talent management: and an annual review of Treasury Policies.
annual reports on community engagement, charitable giving, customer satisfaction survey and sustainability strategy.
Matters specific to 2015 approval of land strategy: approval of the acquisition of a 90 approval of the acquisition of a approval of the sale of the Bath per cent interest in Vailog S. r. l. for portfolio in the Netherlands for Road office portfolio in Slough for review of the performance of the SELP 39.6 million.
102.5 million: and 325 million: joint venture: and approval of the process to appoint a approval to enter into the Austrian approval of the acquisition of land in new Chairman.
market with the purchase of land in Northern Paris.
Vienna: and approval for the acquisition of the Nestl site in Hayes and the subsequent authority to sell the land allocated to a residential element of the acquisition.
79 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance How we manage governance Committee structure Risk were seen as being open and engaged, while the Non-Executive Directors brought The Board has delegated a number of its The Board recognises that effective risk arange of skills and experience, and ensured responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and management is central to the achievement of the constructive debate.
Remuneration Committees, details of which are Groups strategic objectives and the long-term set out below.
The Terms of Reference of these sustainable growth of the business.
The Board The performance of the three Board Committees can be found at www.
has overall accountability for ensuring that risk Committees was also reviewed and it was The Company ensures that these Committees is managed effectively across the Group, and notedthat each was performing effectively.
are provided with sufficient resources to the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness The Board, and each of its Committees, undertake their duties.
of the risk management process on behalf considered the feedback and agreed action of the Board.
Further details about the risk Responsibility for all operational matters, plans for the forthcoming year.
For the Board, management process and the Groups Principal including the implementation of Group the plan included: Risks are set out on pages 66 to 70. strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive.
discussing diversity for both the Board and The Executive Committee supports the Chief Please see page 64 for details about how the the Company: Executive in the delivery of strategy, establishing Board has complied with the new provisions in financial and operating targets and monitoring the Code to carry out a robust assessment of monitoring the impact for the Company of performance against those targets.
At each theprincipal risks facing the Company.
apossible exit of the UK from the EU: and meeting the Committee reviews financial and operational performance, considers any health reviewing the timing of the Board meetings Evaluation throughout the year.
and safety incidents, carries out a pre-approval The Board has a policy of undertaking externally review of items requiring Board approval and facilitated evaluations every three years and During the year, progress was made with the acts as a primary approval channel for matters internal reviews in the intervening two years.
outputs of the 2014 external evaluation which below Board-approval level.
The Executive External evaluations took place in 2008, 2011 were reported last year: Committee has its own Terms of Reference.
This Committee meets formally each month Gerald Corbett was appointed to succeed In 2015, the Chairman, with the assistance of butalso meets each week for an informal Nigel Rich as Chairman: discussion of day-to-day issues.
the Group Company Secretary, led an internal the Board received two reports during the review process.
Questionnaires for the Board The Executive Committee delegates some of year on the market outlook but also discussed and the three Board Committees were prepared itsresponsibilities to a further four Committees: the cyclical risks of the property market at that encouraged the Directors to provide written most meetings: and comments on a number of themes rather than the Investment Committee: simply tick boxes.
the Directors contributed to a discussion the Operations Committee: in July about the focus for the November The questionnaires covered nine themes: the Risk Committee: and strategy day.
composition of the Board: the Finance Committee.
As part of the appraisal process, the Senior balance of power within the Board and across Independent Director meets annually with These Committees have their own Terms of its Committees: the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the Reference and membership includes at least performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman, knowledge of the business: one member of the Executive Committee.
with the Non-Executive Directors, also For further details see page opposite.
conducted a performance evaluation of role of the Chairman: the Chief Executive and concluded that he strategy and decision making: Re-election of Directors continued to perform effectively and had made In accordance with the Code, each of the significant progress with the execution of the relationship with shareholders: Directors will submit themselves for re-election agreed strategy.
Board administration: at the 2016 AGM, save for the Chairman who willbe retiring.
Gerald Corbett will be submitting risk management: and himself for election as this will be his first effectiveness.
The Nomination Committee Report on pages 85 and 86 provides The Directors were unanimous in their view that more information about the Directors appraisal the Board was operating effectively.
There was process, while their skills and expertise are set agreement that the Board was the right size out in the Directors biographies on pages 76 and had the appropriate range of skills and and 77. experience.
The quality of Board discussions was good and there was a climate of trust and transparency.
The Executive Directors 80 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance framework Board Nigel Rich Chairman Four Executive Directors Five Independent Non-Executive Directors Board Committees Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Monitors the integrity of the Ensures that the Board and Determines the reward strategy Groups financial statements, the senior management team for the Executive Directors to reviews the relationship with have the appropriate skills, align their interests with those the auditor and the role and knowledge and experience to of shareholders.
effectiveness of the internal operate effectively and to deliver audit function.
Oversees the risk management process andcontrol environment.
Management Committees Executive Investment Operations Risk Finance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee To assist the Chief Executive To manage the allocation To assist the Chief To establish, monitor and To monitor compliance with the development and of capital across the Group Operating Officer to report to the Board and with the Groups Treasury implementation of Group and to oversee all major manage the operations of Audit Committee on Policies and the Groups strategy, the management investment and divestment the Group and to discharge the Groups approach to solvency, funding and of the business and the decisions on behalf of the the responsibilities risk management.
discharge of responsibilities Executive Committee.
delegated to him by the delegated by the Board.
81 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Training and communication Conflicts the business.
He will also meet with the Groups Engagement with shareholders and principal external advisers.
otherstakeholders The Board operates a policy to identify and, when appropriate, manage actual or potential The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Ongoing training is provided to all Directors conflicts of interest affecting Directors.
Director are the Companys principal spokesmen either during Board or Committee meetings with investors, fund managers, analysts, the press or through one-to-one meetings with senior Directors are required to submit any actual or and other interested stakeholders.
See page 84 for more information potential conflicts of interest they may have with committed to providing investors with regular about how the Directors keep up to date.
the Company to the Board for approval.
announcements of significant events affecting Most Board meetings take place in London but Any conflicts of interest are recorded and the Group, including its business strategy and during the year meetings and tours took place reviewed by the full Board, at each meeting.
The Board met with Directors have a continuing duty to keep The Company organises a dedicated investor management teams in these locations and had the Board updated about any changes to relations programme with institutional investors, tours of the Groups property portfolios.
which includes formal events during the year The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the along with a regular series of one-to-one and Induction and training Group Company Secretary are always available group meetings.
These events also provide an for theDirectors to discuss any issues concerning Newly appointed Directors participate in a opportunity for shareholders to meet members Board meetings or other matters.
structured and tailored induction programme of the senior management team.
See the chart and on appointment receive a comprehensive below for further details.
All Directors have access to the advice and pack of information on the Group and its services of the Group Company Secretary, who The Chairman and Senior Independent governance structure.
is responsible for ensuring compliance with Director are available to shareholders to discuss Board procedures.
Directors have the right to An induction programme is being prepared for governance and strategy or any concerns they seek independent professional advice at the Gerald Corbett for when he joins the Board in may have which contact through the usual Companys reasonable expense.
This programme will spread over channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise six months and will give him a rounded view of inappropriate, although no shareholders have The Company maintains directors and officers the Groups activities and governance.
It will give requested such a meeting.
In previous years, the liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover him an opportunity to meet with the current Chairman has contacted major shareholders and for legal action brought against its Directors.
Chairman and Directors, along with the Group offered a meeting with himself and or the Senior Company Secretary and Group HR Director, Independent Director.
As he announced in July to understand the running of the Board and its that he would be retiring it was felt appropriate Committees.
He will have meetings with the to defer this offer until the new Chairman was members of the Leadership Team, Business appointed.
Both Gerald Corbett and Margaret Unit Directors and visit sites in the UK and Ford will be available for meetings should Continental Europe to gain an understanding of shareholders request them.
Shareholder Engagement: What we did in 2015 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN Property conference 2014 full-year Investor roadshows in Trading Update Investor roadshow Property conferences in London results presentation London, Edinburgh forQ1 2015 in London in Amsterdam and Amsterdam and London Investor roadshow Annual General in London Property conferences Meeting Investor and Analyst in Miami, New York, Event focused on Equity sales London and Frankfurt Germany, took presentation place at our offices Equity in Dsseldorf sales presentation 82 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Chairman attends regularly the financial Debt investors programme Constructive use of the AGM results presentations.
The Board is kept informed Banks and Bondholders The AGM is an opportunity for the Directors about any discussions with shareholders and the A regular dialogue is maintained with our key to communicate with, and answer questions Directors are provided regularly with analysts relationship banks, bondholders and secured from, shareholders.
All Directors are available to reports and investor feedback.
lenders, including: meet informally with shareholders before and after the meeting.
Prior to the formal business The Companys website, www.
com, at least bi-annual meetings between lending of the meeting, the Chief Executive makes a provides shareholders with comprehensive banks and our Treasury team and Group presentation on the progress and performance information on the Groups recent business Finance Director: of the Group.
activities and financial developments, including an annual Bank and Bondholders meeting, webcasts, press releases and recordings of The Notice of AGM is dispatched to which was attended by approximately 30 of interviews with the Chief Executive.
shareholders at least 20 working days before our banks and bondholders: and the meeting.
The Company proposes separate We have a dedicated Investor Relations team resolutions on each substantially separate issue, active engagement between our Treasury which reports to the Group Finance Director.
with voting conducted by poll.
The Board team and potential lenders debt investors.
Communication with investors and analysts is believes this voting process is more democratic an ongoing process throughout the year on a Credit rating agencies than a show of hands since all shares voted proactive and reactive basis.
This includes regular During the year, updates and meetings were at the meeting, as well as proxy votes lodged scheduled Investor Relations events, outlined held by our Treasury team with Fitch Ratings, Inc before the meeting, are counted.
For each in the calendar below, as well as one-to-one rating agency.
resolution, shareholders will have the option and group meetings with Executive Directors, to vote either for or against a resolution, tours of our properties and equity sales team or to withhold their vote.
Following the presentations at global and local investment meeting, the results of votes lodged for and banks.
During the year, the Chief Executive, against each resolution are announced to the Group Finance Director, senior management London Stock Exchange and displayed on and our Investor Relations team met with theCompanys website.
JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 2015 half-year results Equity Investor roadshows Trading Update Investor roadshows Property conference sales presentations in Amsterdam forQ3 2015 across Asia and in in London Investor Roadshows and London Edinburgh and Paris in London Investor roadshows Equity in New York Property conference sales presentations and Switzerland in London Property conference in London 83 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors training I believe it is essential in order to ensure good quality External presentations All Non-Executive Directors have access to anyone decision making that all of the Directors keep up who on a one-to-one basis may be able to help To ensure that the Board delivers long-term returns to date, not only about the business, but also about further their understanding of the Company.
In 2015, for its shareholders, it is important that the Directors shareholder views, changing governance requirements one-to-one meetings included time spent with: the are exposed to the views and opinions of people and the macro-economic environment in which we Group Financial Controller to discuss accounting outside the Company.
I have set out below how we achieved this policy, the Head of Tax and Treasury to understand were received from the Head of Global Research in 2015. tax treatment, the Group Company Secretary to TMT at Deloitte on future trends as well as from consider shareholder feedback from the AGM and the Companys corporate advisers UBS and Bank the Head of Risk Management to review the risk Internal presentations of America Merrill Lynch.
Individually, Directors attend seminars and are also given to the Board every six months by the In addition to regular business items, the Board conferences associated with their areas of expertise Groups valuers, CBRE and JLL, and which include received presentations from members of the or responsibility.
We also receive an annual legal a forward-looking view of the wider investment Leadership Team on: and regulatory update from our General Counsel and occupational markets in which we operate.
the strategy for the Heathrow cargo area and a andGroup Company Secretary.
In September, the Board was delighted to host a presentation on the conclusions of the Davies dinner for PSP Investments to hear their perspectives Analysts reports and sector updates are circulated Airports Commission report: on the SELPjoint venture.
to all Directors weekly and they receive regular summaries of press cuttings.
Between meetings, the risk appetite: Outside Board meetings Chief Executive and I communicate regularly with the legal, governance and regulatory matters: and My fellow Directors and I get valuable insight from Directors to update them on recent developments.
getting around the business so, twice a year, Board people strategy and talent management.
meetings are held at regional offices and include presentations from the team and a tour of assets.
These presentations enable the Non-Executive Nigel Rich CBE In 2015, the Board visited assets in Prague and Park Directors to see executives below Board level regularly, Chairman Royal.
These tours give the Non-Executive Directors which not only promotes succession planning, but also the opportunity not only to see assets and meet keeps the Board informed about more specialist areas customers but also to spend time with the local of activity.
84 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
