076 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder The role of the Committee is toevaluate the balance of skills, experience and independence of board members and lead the process for board appointments.
The Committee also recommends to the Board that all directors are subject to annual re-election, in line with the Code.
The Committee continues to monitor the composition of the Board so that future succession is managed effectively.
After 29 years at the Company, I have asked the Committee to search for my successor.
The Senior Independent Director is leading a process in accordance with the Code.
We have focused on the Groups medium-term succession planning for executive directors, senior staff and non-executive directors during the year.
The Committee has oversight of the Groups training and development processes below Board level to ensure all employees have appropriate skills and that they continue to develop in their roles.
An annual Board performance evaluation was internally facilitated this year.
The process, conducted as part of a Board strategy day, concluded that the Board was working cohesively.
Jonathan Lane OBE Chairman Nomination Committee Committee members and attendance NUMBER OF MEETINGS ATTENDED MEMBER POSITION 5 HELD Jonathan Lane Chairman Jill Little Senior Independent Director Oliver Marriott Member Dermot Mathias Member Hilary Riva Member Sally Walden Member Committee attendees by invitation only ATTENDEES POSITION Brian Bickell Chief Executive Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee Key activities during the year SUCCESSION PERFORMANCE AND SKILLS REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Succession planning for the Board and Considered the Board and Committee Proposed to the Board directors for senior executives performance evaluation results re-election Reviewed the skills of the directors for re-election Reviewed training undertaken by directors Reviewed the annual committee report SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE NOmiNAtiON COmmittEE REpORt CONTINUED 077 Policy on diversity Succession planning All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are The Board comprises a team of four executive directors, three of considered at every level of recruitment.
All appointments to the whom have an average length of service with the Company of 28 Board are made on merit.
The Board policy on diversity is to years.
Continuity of experience and knowledge, particularly of ensure its composition has an appropriate balance of skills and the unique environment of Londons West End, is important in diversity to meet the requirements of the business.
The Board our focused, long-term business.
The executive team is considers that quotas are not appropriate in determining its complemented by six non-executive directors who have wide composition and has therefore chosen not to set targets.
business experience and skills and a detailed understanding of the Groups philosophy and strategy.
The current Board composition has 30% female representation, which exceeds Lord Davies target for FTSE 100 company boards A key responsibility of the Committee is to advise the Board on of 25% female by 2015.
Gender diversity of the Board and succession planning.
The Committee ensures that evolution of Company is set out below, showing both number of employees the Boards membership is planned and properly managed, and total 25 and percentage that this relates to.
that in the event of unforeseen changes, management and oversight of the Groups business and long-term strategy will not be disrupted.
Board The Committee also addresses continuity in, and development Male of, the executive management team below board level.
Development of the Groups employees is considered at each Female 3 meeting of the Committee and a development programme has 30% been introduced during the past two years.
The Senior Independent Director is leading a process for the 7 succession of the Chairman, in accordance with the Code.
70% Directors standing for re-election All directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Following Senior Management the annual Board performance reviews of individual directors, the Chairman considers that each director continues to operate Male as an effective member of the Board and has the skills, knowledge and experience that enables them to discharge their Female duties properly.
On the advice of the Committee, the Board, therefore, recommends the re-election of each director standing 5 5 for re-election.
50% 50% The tenure of independent non-executives at 30 September 2015 is set out below.
All employees 6 years 2 months Oliver Marriott including executive directors 5 years 9 months Hilary Riva Male 5 years 9 months Jill Little Female 3 years Dermot Mathias 11 3 years Sally Walden 44% 14 SEE PAGES 70 TO 71 AND THE WEBSITE FOR BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ON EACH DIRECTOR 56% The Group supports initiatives to promote diversity within the property industry.
Brian Bickell is a board member of Freehold, a forum for LGBT real estate professionals.
The Group has committed to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark scheme which aims to drive behaviour changes by encouraging firms to look carefully at their employment practices and have inclusivity embedded in their operations.
