072 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards The Group has continued to comply with the principles of the ofcorporate governance and UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2014 with the transparency throughout all exception that, owing to my previous tenure as an executive, I was not independent upon my appointment as Chairman.
Our governance framework is built around our focused strategy of investing in the West End of London executed by an experienced management team.
The Board monitors the risks faced by the business and ensures that there are appropriate controls to minimise such risks as far as possible.
The Board monitors activity across the Groups portfolio, including larger projects and letting and tenancy transactions, the financial aspects of the business and the evolution and implementation of its sustainability strategies.
The Board had a strategy day where it focused on societal, technological and economic changes which may, in the years ahead, influence the implementation of our long-term investment strategy.
The Remuneration Committee, led by Sally Walden, has undertaken a substantial review of the Groups remuneration policy.
This culminated in a proposal to shareholders for a binding vote at our 2016 AGM on a revised remuneration policy which includes a new LTIP for executives, incorporating a post-vesting holding period.
The Audit Committee, led by Dermot Mathias, has tendered the Groups external audit.
Last year, we reported that, in view of the tenure of  LLP and their precedesor firms since 1987 as our auditors and proposed legislation on auditor rotation, that we would tender our auditor appointment.
The Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Group auditor at the conclusion of the 2015 audit.
Their re-appointment is proposed at the 2016 AGM.
A considerable focus this year has also been on the risk profile of the Group and the new viability statement that your Board has made regarding the future prospects of your Group.
Jonathan Lane OBE Chairman SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORpORAtE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 073 Typically a Board meeting will be structured to receive The Board reports from: The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Group and the long-term success of the business.
It oversees the Groups Chief Executive covering the general and local property strategy and its implementation, ensuring that an appropriate market conditions, operational and financial and operational structure is in place and that risks are financial overview, shareholder relations managed appropriately or mitigated.
and sustainability SEE STRATEGIC REPORT ON PAGES 1 TO 68 Property Directors asset management, schemes and acquisitions Jonathan Lane, as Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and setting the Finance Director published financial statements, agenda.
Brian Bickell, as Chief Executive, is responsible for the financing, forecasts, performance and Groups day-to-day operations.
There is a clear division of financial analysis responsibilities between the two roles.
The Board delegates Company secretary governance, regulation and sustainability responsibility, within specific parameters, to executive management to enable effective operation of the business.
Strategic topic relating to an aspect of the Groups business and or a visit to a part of the The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Groups portfolio Their responsibilities are defined in terms of reference, which are available on the Groups website.
Committees comprise only Committee chairmen reports on activities at each committee independent non-executive directors, other than the Nomination meeting held immediately prior to the Committee, which is chaired by Jonathan Lane nonBoard independent Chairman as permitted by the Code.
The Board meets regularly with an annual cycle of topics to be considered Where possible, employees below Board level are invited to including key management and financial updates as well as present to the Board on operational topics.
Non-executive approval of significant acquisitions and refurbishment schemes.
directors have direct and open access to employees below board level.
During the year, the Board held a strategy day to consider particular topics in greater depth including a Board performance review.
The company secretary is responsible for advising the Board, Strategy Performance Risk Sustainability through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting Remuneration policy Succession planning Monitor external Annual remuneration Recommend auditors including bonus and candidates to the LTIP awards Board Risk and internal control Set annual Boar d performance performance evaluation objectives Diversity AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION NOMINATION REPORT PAGES REPORT PAGES COMMITTEE REPORT 78 TO 81 82 TO 101 REPORT PAGE 76 TO 77 074 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORpORAtE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board composition Board performance evaluation The composition of the Board is important to ensure that there is This year, the Board undertook an internal Board performance effective leadership of the Group.
There is a balance of executive evaluation, having undertaken an  evaluation and non-executive directors with a wide range of business skills, last year.
The process took place in an open forum at the Boards including property, finance, retail and fund management that strategy day and covered: contribute to the Groups operations.
Each of the non-executive The structure and content of board meetings.
directors, other than the Chairman, is considered by the Board Ti me management, including the timing and frequency of to be independent.
Changes to the order of the agenda were suggested and a better balance during the two days of the Board and Committee 4 5 1 meetings.
It was agreed that the strategy day had been extremely Executive directors Independent non-executive Chairman valuable and should be repeated annually.
directors E ngagement with shareholders including greater involvement of non-executive directors in meetings with shareholders.
Attendance by directors at scheduled Board meetings is set out below.
Attendance at scheduled Committee meetings is set out The evaluation concluded that the Board was working cohesively in each Committee report.
There was 100% attendance at Board and that there was a good quality of discussion at meetings.
An important focus during this year, and for the year ahead, NUMBER OF remains Board succession and executive development below MEETINGS Board level.
ATTENDED MEMBER POSITION 5 HELD The non-executive directors found that regular visits to the Groups holdings, coupled with specific focus at each meeting on Brian Bickell Chief Executive a village, were exceptionally valuable.
Simon Quayle Property Director A review of the performance of the directors and Chairman was Thomas Welton Property Director also undertaken.
Christopher Ward Finance Director Jonathan Lane Chairman Oliver Marriott Non-executive director Dermot Mathias Non-executive director Jill Little Senior Independent Director Hilary Riva Non-executive director Sally Walden Non-executive director The non-executive directors met on a number of occasions during the year without management present.
COMMITTEE REPORTS ON PAGES 76 TO 101 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE CORpORAtE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 075 Risk management and internal control SEE PAGE 59 TO 63 Viability and going concern SEE PAGES 66 AND 114 Remuneration SEE REMUNERATION REPORT ON PAGES 82 TO 101 Relations with shareholders The Board places great importance on regular contact with shareholders and potential investors, in order to communicate the Groups strategy and its implementation.
Investor relations is the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
Annual and half year results are presented to formal meetings of real estate analysts.
Dial-in and replay facilities are made available.
Copies of these presentations are available on the corporate website from the time of the meeting.
Analysts are encouraged to tour the portfolio, so they maintain a good understanding of the Groups activities and long-term strategy.
During the year, the Chief Executive and executive directors met around 200 UK and overseas institutional investors, comprising both current and potential shareholders.
Meetings were held in the UK, Amsterdam, Paris and New York.
Meetings comprised individual and group presentations and tours of the portfolio.
The tours provide an opportunity to see the Groups assets, understand management strategy, and also to meet members of the team below Board level.
During the year, a tour of the portfolio was arranged for members of the UK Shareholders Association, which represents the interests of private investors.
Meetings are offered to finance and debt providers.
Feedback from these presentations and meetings is provided to the Board, together with published analyst comments on the Group.
The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Board and vote on the resolutions.
All directors, including the chairs of the committees, are available at the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
During the year, shareholders were consulted on the Groups proposed changes to its remuneration policy.
SEE REMUNERATION REPORT ON PAGES 82 TO 101 The corporate website, together with the websites and social media channels used to promote the villages, are important sources of information on the Group, explaining its philosophy, strategy, current activities and events across the villages.
SEE LIST OF WEBSITES ON PAGE 71
