078 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report Dear shareholder The Committee is tasked with reviewing and reporting to the Board on financial reporting, internal control andrisk management, and reviews the performance, independence and effectiveness oftheexternal auditors in carrying out the statutory audit.
The Committee advises the Board on various statements made in the Annual Report, including those on viability, going concern, risk and controls and whether when read as a whole the Annual Report, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
As we stated in last years report, and in accordance with emerging best practice, the Committee has carried out an audit tender process during the year.
 LLP will resign as auditors at the completion of this years audit and Ernst & Young LLP will be appointed by the Board.
Their appointment will be subject to their re-appointment at the 2016 AGM.
On behalf of the Board, I thank  LLP for the high quality audit service they have provided to the Group since 1987.
Dermot mathias Chairman - Audit Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF MEETINGS ATTENDED MEMBER POSITION 3 HELD Dermot Mathias Chairman Jill Little Senior Independent Director and member Oliver Marriott Member Hilary Riva Member Sally Walden Member Dermot Mathias is the member of the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Committee attendees by invitation only ATTENDEES POSITION Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee Christopher Ward Finance Director Gareth Field Senior members of the finance team Robert Jessett  Independent auditors LLP At each meeting, the Committee has time with the auditors without management present.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AuDit COmmittEE REpORt CONTINUED 079 Key activities during the year FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT MISCELLANEOUS Reviewed and monitored the integrity of Planned for year end and reviewed the Approved non-audit assignments the published financial information audit plan awarded to the external audit firm, and including the year end results, preliminary monitored audit non-audit fees Considered the independence and announcement, Annual Report and half objectivity of the auditors Reviewed the whistle-blowing policy year results Reviewed the auditors performance Considered the need for an internal Reviewed significant issues and areas of audit function Tendered the Group audit and made a judgement which have the potential to recommendation to the Board that Ernst Reviewed the Committees performance have a material impact on the financial & Young LLP be appointed statements, making any consequent Considered the appropriateness of the recommendations to the Board going concern assumption Met with the Groups valuers to discuss the Carried out a robust assessment of the valuation process and outcome principal risks faced by the business Considered emerging best practice in Reviewed the risk and internal control relation to corporate reporting framework, including monitoring the Groups risk management and internal Advised the Board on the statement by controls systems and assessed the directors that the Annual Report, when adequacy and effectiveness of controls read as a whole, is fair, balanced and and disclosures made in the annual understandable and provides the report.
The review covered all material information necessary for shareholders to controls, including financial, operational assess the Groups performance, business and compliance controls model and strategy Advised the Board on the Viability Statement Reviewed and approved the Committee Report 080 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AuDit COmmittEE REpORt CONTINUED Other areas of judgement Financial reporting and significant financialjudgements I n addition, the Committee has considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of The Committee considers all financial information published in the which were material in the context of the Groups results or net annual and half year financial statements and considers accounting assets.
These include judgements concerning the charge for policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the equity settled remuneration and the valuation of derivative financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made financial instruments.
by management in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
Going concern The Committee considered whether the Annual Report was fair, The Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate to adopt the balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary going concern assumption in the preparation of the results.
In information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, considering this, it reviews the Groups five-year profit, cash flow business model and strategy.
In carrying out this exercise the and investment forecasts, availability of committed bank and debt Committee had regard to the systems and controls around the facilities and expected headroom under the financial covenants in preparation of the accounts, the procedures to bring relevant those facilities.
Following the review, it recommended to the information to the attention of the preparers of the accounts, Board that it was appropriate to adopt the going concern basis.
the consistency of the reports and whether they are in accordance with the information provided to the Board during the year.
It Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not also considered whether the Annual Report had been written in aware of any material misstatements in the Annual Report and straightforward language, without unnecessary repetition of the auditors confirmed that they had found no material information, and the use of any adjusted measures, eg EPRA misstatements in the course of their work.
After reviewing the reports from management and, following its The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual discussions with the auditors and valuers, the Committee is Report is fair, balanced and understandable and included the satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the necessary information as set out above.
It confirmed this to the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the Board, whose statement in this regard is set out on page 104. amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the processes used for determining the value of the Consideration was also given to the Principal Risks and the assets and liabilities have been appropriately reviewed, Viability Statement, set out on pages 61 to 66.
The Committee challenged and are sufficiently robust.
has reviewed the scenario analysis prepared by management including the assumptions made and has recommended the Risk review process statement to the Board.
As part of standing matters, the Committee and the Board The Committee considered the appropriateness of the reviewed the business risks and internal controls framework accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements, during the year.
This review included testing by the external and in particular, paid attention to matters it considered to be auditors and assurance from the Finance Director over certain important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results and key controls.
remuneration, and those which involve a high level of complexity, judgement or estimation by management.
The significant areas The Groups internal control and risk management procedures, considered are set out below: and its principal risks and uncertainties are reported in the Strategic Report.
Valuation of investment properties SEE RISK MANAGEMENT ON PAGES 59 TO 63 The valuation opinion is provided by independent external valuers and is one of the critical components of the annual and half year financial results.
It is inherently subjective, requiring External auditors significant judgement.
As well as a detailed review of the valuations The Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the by management, members of the Committee met the Groups external audit.
valuers, without management present, before finalisation of the annual and half year results.
At these meetings, they discussed the The Committee tendered the Group audit during the year.
The valuations, reviewed the key judgements and discussed whether tender process involved a series of meetings with the Committee there were any significant disagreements with management.
They Chairman and management, including portfolio tours, and each also discussed current market conditions, recent transactions candidate firm presented to the Committee and executive in the market and any impact these have had on the valuation.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be appointed following the end of the financial The auditors use internal real estate specialists, who meet with year.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
the valuers as part of their audit and report their findings and  LLP will resign as auditors at the conclusions to the Committee.
The Board considered the completion of this years audit and the Board will appoint Ernst & valuation in detail at its meeting to approve the financial Young LLP.
The Board will recommend that Ernst & Young LLP is statements: as part of this the Groups wholly-owned portfolio re-appointed as Group auditor at the AGM in February 2016. valuers presented their valuation opinion.
In accordance with the current regulations, the Group will re-tender the audit every ten years.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE AuDit COmmittEE REpORt CONTINUED 081 Award of non-audit assignments to the Annual auditor assessment externalaudit firm Annually, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise and resources, and independence of the Groups external The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments are auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does not awarded to the external audit firm if there is a risk that their this through discussion with the Finance Director, review of a audit independence and objectivity could be compromised and detailed assessment questionnaire and confirmation from the that, other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee and the should not exceed audit and assurance fees.
Finance Director meet with an independent partner from the external audit firm without the audit team present.
In addition, the award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior  LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: approval of the Committee.
One assignment was approved during Th ey have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects the year, under this policy, for the Groups tax compliance work.
of non-audit work which could compromise their role as auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
Audit fees Th e total fees paid by the Group during the year do not Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit represent a material part of their firms fee income.
services are set out below: Th ey consider that they have maintained their audit 2014 independence throughout the year.
2015 AS RE-STATED 000 000 The Committee has completed its assessment of the external Audit of the parent companys 58 56 auditors for the year under review.
It has satisfied itself as to annual accounts their qualifications, expertise and resources and remains confident that their objectivity and independence are not in any Audit of the consolidated Group 98 93 way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they total audit services 156 149 provide to the Group.
Audit related assurance services 21 20 half year review Internal audit Other assurance services - - In view of the focused nature of the Groups business, the close involvement of the executive directors in day-to-day decision total assurance services 21 20 making and relatively simple structure, together with the regular total audit and assurance services 177 169 independent reviews of the processes and controls of managing agents, the Committee recommended to the Board that, at the Tax compliance services 39 32 present time, it considers there is no need to establish an Tax advisory services 39 69 internal audit function.
Services related to taxation 78 101 Other non-audit services - 7 total fees related to taxation 78 108 and other non-audit services total fees 255 277 Total fees related to taxation and other non-audit services represented 44% of the total fees for audit and assurance services 2014: 64%.
Tax advisory services represent various assignments carried out during the year, none of which were individually significant.
The comparative figures have been re-stated after the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements during the year.
Further information on this is set out on page 115.
The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low due primarily to the simple Group corporate structure.
