Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Intro External auditor AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP During the year we considered the appointment, compensation, Jim Prower Chairman performance and independence of the Companys external auditor, BDO LLP BDO.
Richard Jewson Stephen Smith BDO was appointed as the Companys auditor following a formal Jim Prower, is considered to possess recent and relevant financial experience for the purpose of the AIC Code.
Details of Jim Prowers experience can be found in tender process as part of the IPO.
During the year we met key his biography on page 54. members of the audit team and BDO formally confirmed its Richard Jewson, the Chairman of the Board, sits on the Audit Committee to enable his greater understanding of the issues facing the Company.
independence as part of the annual reporting process.
We liaise regularly with the lead audit partner to discuss any issues arising Activities of the Committee from the audit as well as its cost-effectiveness.
The Audit Committee operates within defined terms of reference, which are available on the Companys Website and on request We acknowledge that, in some circumstances, the external from the Company Secretary.
We met four times during the year.
auditors understanding of the Companys business can be These meetings were attended by the Committee members, as beneficial in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of well as representatives of the Manager, the Company Secretary advisory work and, therefore, engaging the external auditor and the external auditor.
for non-audit services has been considered.
To ensure that providing these services does not impair BDOs independence See www.
co. uk investors #corporate-governance and objectivity, the Audit Committee has developed the Companys policy on this issue.
The policy allows the external During the year, the work undertaken by the Audit Committee auditor to provide routine tax compliance and advisory services.
included: In developing the policy, we have considered the Financial Reviewing the internal controls and risk management Reporting Councils Ethical Standard Number 5 revised.
These systems are set out in the Financial Position This relates to non-audit services provided to audited and Prospects Procedures memorandum, which is revised entities and sets out the six principal threats to objectivity annually and was most recently approved by the Board in and independence.
For example, the auditor cannot act as December 2015: management or audit its own work.
The Audit Committee has Reviewing the interim and annual audited financial reviewed the level of non-audit fees paid to BDO in the year, statements, including considering key accounting policies which totalled 194,000.
It has also reviewed the terms under and areas of significant judgement, compliance with statutory which BDO is able to perform non-audit services and has obligations and accounting standards and consistency acknowledged that tax advice and corporate due diligence throughout the Annual Report: is provided by separate teams within BDO.
We are therefore satisfied that the audit is independent, objective and effective.
Reviewing the process undertaken to ensure that the Board can confirm that the annual financial statements are fair, We will keep this issue under constant review, particularly at the balanced and understandable: and time of new engagements and in light of proposed legislative Reviewing and approving the external auditors terms of changes to ensure that the auditors independence and engagement, remuneration and tenure of appointment.
60 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Of the 194,000 non-audit fees paid to BDO, the significant expenditure that was authorised in the year is outlined below: WORK UNDERTAKEN RATIONALE FOR USING THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR FEE Reporting accountant on the Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the requirements of 62,000 Companys secondary offerings the exercise, having acted as reporting accountant on previous equity fundraisings for the Company.
Low risk of self-interest and self-review threat, as the work is not used in the audit of the financial statements.
Financial and tax due diligence on Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the requirements of the 132,000 corporate acquisitions exercises.
The work was performed by a team independent of the audit team.
The audit team places no reliance on these procedures.
The Audit Committee has recommended that a resolution to Financial reporting and significant judgements reappoint BDO is proposed to Shareholders at the next AGM.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial information published in the interim and annual financial Risk management and internal controls statements and considers the extent to which suitable As part of the Board meetings and Audit Committee meetings, accounting policies have been adopted, presented and the Directors review the financial position of the Company and disclosed.
In assessing this we consider whether the Manager assess any risks in relation to the Companys business model has made suitable and appropriate estimates and judgements, and the Groups future performance, liquidity and solvency.
To and seek support from the external auditor to assess them.
facilitate this process the Manager produces a full set of reports including the latest management accounts, a review and report Valuation of property portfolio on the Companys financial planning model, substantiation of The Group had property assets of 1.16 billion at any dividend payments and a general update on the financial 31 December 2015, as detailed on the Group Statement of health of the Company.
As explained in note 15 to the financial statements, CBRE independently valued the properties As the Companys AIFM, the Manager is subject to a rigorous in accordance with IAS 40: Investment Property.
The total reporting and ongoing compliance regime under the AIFMD.
portfolio valuation including forward funded commitments As part of this regulatory process, Langham Hall UK Depositary at the year end was 1.31 billion.
We have reviewed the LLP has been retained by the Company and is responsible assumptions underlying the property valuations and discussed for cash monitoring, asset verification and oversight of the these with management, and have concluded that the valuation Company and the Manager.
Due to the Companys size and structure and the nature of its Valuation of interest rate derivatives activities and taking into account the controls already in place The Group mitigates its exposure to interest rate risk by and, more particularly, the external service already provided entering into interest rate hedging arrangements.
The Group by Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, the Audit Committee accounts for these instruments in accordance with IAS 39 and has concluded that an internal audit function is unnecessary.
makes additional required disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial However, we will continue to consider the need for an internal Instruments Disclosures.
The valuations are provided by the audit function each year and make recommendations to the relevant institutions to which the loans are hedged.
The Board Board as appropriate.
has reviewed and approved these valuations.
For further information on Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, See Group Statement of Financial Position p79 61 see Depositary Statement p72 See note 15, Notes to the Consolidated Accounts p92-93 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Revenue recognition A letter provided by the Administrator that there have been no Revenue is the Groups rental income arising from operating changes to its control environment since 31 December 2014 leases on investment property and is recognised on a straight-line and that all internal controls in place as at the time of the last basis.
Any increases in rent following rent reviews are recognised review remain active: as and when the rent reviews are settled, unless the Directors are Controls enforced by the Manager, Administrator and other reasonably certain that a rental uplift will be agreed, in which case third-party service providers, to ensure complete and accurate a rental adjustment is recognised from the date of the rent review.
financial records and security of the Companys assets: and Tenant lease incentives are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The satisfactory control report produced by the Administrator for the year ended 31 December 2014, which has been Conclusions in respect of the Companys Annual Report reviewed and reported upon by the Administrators external The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report is auditor, to verify the effectiveness of the Administrators a comprehensive process, requiring input from a number of internal controls, such as the Audit and Assurance Faculty contributors.
To reach a conclusion on whether the Companys AAF Report.
financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, as required under the AIC Code and the UK Corporate As a result of the work performed, the Audit Committee Governance Code, the Board has requested that the Audit has concluded and reported to the Board that the Annual Committee advise on whether we consider that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, taken as a Report fulfils these requirements.
In outlining our advice, we whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides have considered the following: the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The The comprehensive documentation that outlines the controls Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Directors in place for the production of the Annual Report, including the Responsibilities Statement.
verification processes to confirm the factual content: Jim Prower Chairman of the Audit Committee The detailed reviews undertaken at various stages of the 16 March 2016 production process by the Manager, Administrator, joint financial advisers, auditor and the Audit Committee, which are intended to ensure consistency and overall balance: 62 See Directors Responsibilities Statement p71
