Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY Internal controls review AIFM Directive The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for maintaining The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD the Companys system of internal control and risk management in became part of UK law in 2013.
It regulates AIFMs and imposes order to safeguard the Companys assets.
This system is designed obligations on managers who manage alternative investment to identify, manage and mitigate the financial, operational and funds AIF in the EU or who market shares in AIFs to EU compliance risks that are inherent to the Company.
Under the AIFMD, the AIFM must comply with various is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to organisational, operational and transparency obligations.
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Manager is authorised by the FCA as an AIFM and, hence, provides all relevant management and advisory services to the The Board and the Manager have together reviewed all financial Company, including regulated activities.
Non-financial internal controls include the systems of operational and compliance AIFM Remuneration policy applied by the Manager controls maintained by the Companys administrator, Capita As a full scope AIFM, the Manager must apply a remuneration Sinclair Henderson Limited the Administrator, and by the policy in line with its business strategy, objectives, values and Manager in relation to the Companys business, as well as the interests, as well as those of the AIFs it manages or their investors.
management of key risks referred to in the Directors Report.
The policy must include measures to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Board has contractually delegated responsibility for accounting The Managers partnership board therefore meets at least services to the Administrator and for company secretarial services twice a year to discuss the remuneration of its entire staff.
Staff to Taylor Wessing Secretaries Limited up until 1 May 2015 and are remunerated in accordance with their seniority, expertise, thereafter, to the Manager.
These entities have their own internal professional qualifications, responsibilities and performance.
control systems relating to these matters, which the Board has They are paid salaries in line with market rates and, in profitable reviewed as part of its Financial Position and Prospects Procedures years, awarded a discretionary bonus from a bonus pool of memorandum which was updated in 2015 to better reflect the at least 5% of the Managers profits.
This means that staff operations of the Company.
remuneration is predominantly fixed and the variable element is determined by the Managers profitability, rather than the Internal control assessment process performance of a particular AIF.
The Board regularly monitors the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and ensures their adequacy.
This The Managers partners are entitled to their partnership share of its includes reviewing reports from the external auditor, details profits and losses.
None of the partners are entitled to additional of which are included in the Audit Committee Report and partnership drawings that depend on the performance of any the quarterly reports prepared by Langham Hall UK Depositary AIF managed by the partnership.
The Board also conducts a formal risk assessment therefore depends on the Managers profitability, rather than each year.
the performance of the AIF.
This ensures that the partners have a vested interest in ensuring the Manager remains financially sound.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the AIC Code and Guide, and the UK Corporate Governance Code, it has The annual fee paid by the AIF is based on a percentage of NAV, as established a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report.
In managing the risks the Company faces and has reviewed the addition, the Managers partners are required to invest 25% of that effectiveness of the internal control systems.
fee net of tax and certain other costs, as described on page 64 in the Companys shares.
Those shares are subject to a 12 month lock-in period.
This aligns the interests of the Managers partners with the strategy and interests of the Company.
See Audit Committee Report p60-62 58 See Depositary Statement p72 See management fee as a percentage of NAV p64 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Going concern and viability The review also considers the Companys business model, future The Strategic Report describes the Groups financial position, performance, solvency and liquidity and, therefore, covers the cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The Group Groups cash flows, dividend cover, REIT compliance and other currently has substantial headroom against its borrowing key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics are subject covenants, with a Group LTV of 33.2% as at 31 December 2015. to a sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of key It also benefits from a secure income stream from leases assumptions underlying the forecast both individually and in with long average unexpired terms, which are not overly reliant aggregate.
Where appropriate, this analysis was carried out on any one tenant.
The Companys cash balance as at to evaluate the potential impact of the Groups principal risks 31 December 2015 was 68.6 million, of which 59.2 million actually occurring.
The three-year review also makes certain was readily available.
It also had undrawn amounts under its assumptions about the normal level of capital recycling likely to debt facilities of a further 184.5 million.
On 16 February 2016, occur and considers whether additional financing facilities will the Company issued a further 161,290,323 Ordinary Shares, be required.
raising 196,125,000 of net equity proceeds.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a As a result, the Directors believe that the Company is well reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to placed to manage its financing and other business risks.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The Directors believe that there are currently no material over the period of their assessment.
uncertainties in relation to the Companys ability to continue for a period of at least 12 months from the date of the Companys financial statements.
The Board is, therefore, of the opinion that the going concern basis adopted in the preparation of the Annual Report is appropriate.
Further, in accordance with the provision C. 2.2 of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a period longer than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provisions.
The Board conducted this review for a period of three years, up to 16 March 2019, which was selected to match the period over which the Board monitors and reviews its financial performance and forecasting.
Considerations in support of the Companys viability over this period includes: The current blended unexpired term under the Companys debt facilities stands at 4.7 years: The Company has a WAULT of 16.5 years, which represents a long and secure income stream: and The Companys tenants are all of Investment Grade and as such the likelihood of any default under the leases is low and in any event the Company has a diverse tenant base which should spread the risk of any default.
