STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM of the Company, NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP one-third of the Directors who are subject to the requirement Richard Jewson Chairman to retire by rotation not including any Director who was appointed by the Board and is standing for election will Jim Prower Stephen Smith Mark Shaw retire from office and may offer themselves for re-election by the Shareholders.
The Directors to retire by rotation will The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the Boards be those who have been longest in office since their last structure, size and composition, and for considering succession election.
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, planning for Directors.
We have a policy of identifying and approving notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors candidates to fill Board vacancies, using external search consultants will offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the where appropriate.
We operate within defined terms of reference provisions of the AIC Code.
which are available on the Companys Website and on request from the Company Secretary.
When renewing current appointments, all Directors except the individual in question are able to vote at the general meeting.
Meetings and activities during the year We met once during the year to consider the Boards structure.
Board diversity We believe that the Board has appropriate experience and The Nomination Committee considers that the Directors have knowledge for the Company, the composition of the Audit a balance of skills, qualifications and experience which is Committee will need to be addressed through the appointment relevant to the Company.
We support the recommendations of of an additional Independent Non-Executive Director to the the Davies Report and believe in the value and importance of Board.
An additional Independent Non-Executive Director will diversity in the boardroom but we do not consider it appropriate also support the existing Board, given the Companys growth or in the interest of the Company and its Shareholders to set and inclusion into the FTSE 250 Index.
prescriptive diversity targets on the Board.
We have appointed Jim Prower as Senior Independent Director Richard Jewson Chairman of the Nomination Committee who will be the alternative point of contact for the Companys 16 March 2016 Shareholders.
The appointment was made in March 2016.
Appointment process Having identified the need to appoint a further Independent Non-Executive Director, we have begun the process of identifying suitable candidates with relevant experience and will consider, establish and start the formal recruitment process in 2016.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next AGM of the Company after his her appointment and is then eligible to stand for election.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at: www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporate-Governance 57 See www.
