Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE The Company has complied with the 21 Principles of the AIC Code which have been applied as follows: THE BOARD 1.
The Chairman should be independent The Companys Chairman, Richard Jewson, is independent.
In addition, the Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director who, among other things, will take the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman and will be an alternative contact for Shareholders.
The majority of the Board should be independent The Board currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors of which the Chairman, Richard Jewson, Jim Prower and Stephen Smith are independent of the Manager.
Mark Shaw, who is a partner and chairman of the Manager, Tritax Management LLP, is not considered to be independent.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250, each of the Directors will retire and stand for re-election at the AGM in May 2016.
The Board should have a policy on tenure The Companys practice is to appoint Directors for a minimum three year term subject to annual re-election.
There should be full disclosure of information about the Board Full information about the Board, as a whole, and the Directors, as individuals, is set out, inter alia, in this Annual Report.
The Board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company The Nomination Committee has undertaken a review of the Boards composition and is actively considering a further appointment to the Board.
In making appointments to the Board, the Committee considers the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience required to maintain an effective Board.
The Nomination Committee Report is on page 57.
The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors The Board appointed Board Evaluation Limited to carry out its first annual evaluation of effectiveness during 2015 and a report on the 2015 review is set out on page 56.
Directors remuneration should reflect their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent The Board as a whole is responsible for reviewing the scale and structure of the Directors remuneration and sets remuneration appropriately, so as to attract, retain and motivate Board members.
The Directors each received an increase of 10,000 to their annual fee in July 2015, back dated to January 2015, to reflect the increased time commitment to the Company over that originally anticipated.
The independent Directors should take the lead in the appointment of new Directors and the process should be disclosed in the Annual Report The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination Committee can be found on page 57.
Directors should be offered relevant training and induction All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and their training and development needs have been assessed as part of the 2015 annual effectiveness evaluation.
A formal training session was undertaken in early 2016.
The Chairman and the Board should be brought into the process of a new launch at an early stage The Company operates a single fund and has no plans to launch further funds.
However, whenever the Company carries out equity fundraisings the Chairman and the Board are always involved and are integral to the process from an early stage.
50 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 BOARD MEETINGS AND THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE MANAGER 12.
Boards should operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in the boardroom and actively invites the Non-Executive Directors views.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to the Manager and communicate regularly among themselves.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings should be a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues The Chairman in conjunction with the Manager sets the agendas for the meetings, manages the meeting timetable and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which include the approval of budgets, setting investment and performance objectives and policies, the approval of the Companys financial statements and published reports, the approval of equity and debt fundraising and the approval of all investments.
Prior to each meeting, the Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers providing information on the Companys proposed investments, its financial position and performance, an update on relevant sectors including the commercial property and retail sectors, a monthly Shareholder analysis and a report on regulatory and governance matters.
Boards should give sufficient attention to overall strategy The Board, together with the Manager, regularly considers the overall strategy of the Company in light of its performance and the sector overall.
The Board should regularly review both the performance of, and contractual arrangements with, the Manager The performance of the Manager is assessed on a regular basis by the Management Engagement Committee.
Further details of the review in 2015 are set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report on pages 63 and 64.
The Board together with the Audit Committee sets the Groups risk appetite and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the management of risk, are summarised on pages 60-62.
The Board should agree policies with the Manager covering key operational issues The Board has an agreed set of policies with the Manager covering key operational areas and the implementation of such policies is subject to a regular, independent review.
Further details of this review of internal controls are set out on page 58.
Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP acts as depositary for the Company and conducts an independent review of the internal controls of the Company.
Further details of the role of Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP are set out on page 72.
The Board should monitor the level of the share price discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it The Board monitors the performance on the Companys share price both on an absolute level and relative to the prevailing Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The Directors have at their disposal the authority to buy back or issue Ordinary Shares within certain parameters which would allow them to address anomalies in the performance of the Ordinary Shares, if necessary.
The Board works with the Companys joint financial advisers and corporate broker to maintain regular contact with the investors and monitor investor sentiment.
The Board should monitor and evaluate other service providers The Management Engagement Committee together with the Manager reviews the continuing appointment of its service providers to ensure that terms remain competitive and in the best interests of Shareholders, through an annual review of the relevant contracts.
The Board has access to independent professional advisers at the Companys expense as noted on page 116.
The Board should regularly monitor the Shareholder profile of the Company and put in place a system for canvassing Shareholder views and for communicating the Boards views to Shareholders Representatives of the Manager met regularly with Shareholders throughout 2015 and specifically during the course of the Companys financial results and fundraising activities, providing the Board with feedback on Shareholder views and concerns.
The Directors make themselves available at general meetings to address Shareholder queries and the Annual General Meeting, in particular, provides the Board with an important opportunity to meet with Shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board following the formal business of the meeting.
Details of specific activities are set out in the Relations with Shareholders on page 65.
The Board should normally take responsibility for, and have direct involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues All communications with Shareholders are subject to sign off by one or more of the Directors, as appropriate.
Any communications regarding major corporate issues are approved by the Board prior to release.
The Board should ensure that Shareholders are provided with sufficient information for them to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares The Board places great importance on communication with Shareholders.
It aims to provide Shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to Shareholders twice a year by way of the Half Yearly Report and the Annual Report, including in particular, the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1-46 and this provides information about the performance of the Company, the Investment Policy, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Companys future prospects.
This is supplemented by frequent notifications via a regulatory information service on developments such as asset acquisitions, debt financings and fundraising activities, and the Companys Website is regularly updated.
