Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP BOARD The Board consists of four Non-Executive Directors.
All the Directors are independent of the Manager with the exception of Mark Shaw, who is a partner and chairman of the Manager.
The Board has determined the Companys investment objectives and Investment Policy and has overall responsibility for the Companys activities, including reviewing investment activity, performance, business conduct and strategy, as well as developing and complying with the principles of good corporate governance.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and approval.
These matters include: reviewing and approving Board membership and powers, including the appointment of Directors: approving the budget, financial plans and annual and interim financial reports: reviewing property valuations and valuations of its interest rate derivatives: overseeing treasury functions: managing the Companys capital structure: managing and controlling the Manager and, in conjunction with the Manager, the Companys principal suppliers: approving the dividend policy: approving all investment decisions: and reviewing and approving all compliance and governance matters.
The Board also delegates matters to Board Committees and the Manager, as appropriate.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE MANAGER COMMITTEE To oversee the Groups To review the Boards To review and make Day-to-day responsibility financial reporting, risk composition and to assess recommendations on any for running the Company, management and internal whether the balance of skills, proposed amendment to the with open and regular control procedures and the experience, knowledge and Investment Management communication with work of its external auditors.
independence is appropriate Agreement, to review the the Board on, inter alia, to enable the Board to Managers performance investment decisions, operate effectively.
and the performance of the performance of the Groups Companys other key service assets and securing of debt.
See p60-62 See p57 See p63-64 See p44-45 The Board reviews the terms of reference for each committee The Board as necessary but at least every two years.
Copies are available Each Director has been appointed for a term of three years.
In from the Company Secretary or the Companys Website.
line with the requirements of the AIC Code, each Director must be elected by Shareholders at the Companys AGM and submitted for The Board has not established a Remuneration Committee as re-election at every AGM thereafter.
it has no Executive Directors and the Company has no other employees.
The Board as a whole is responsible for reviewing The Directors believe that the Board is well balanced and the scale and structure of the Directors remuneration.
Details possesses sufficient breadth of skills, a variety of backgrounds, of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December relevant experience and knowledge to ensure it functions 2015 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
correctly and is not dominated by any one Director.
Biographical information on each Director is set out in The Board of Directors.
Owing to the Companys growth over the past year and its entry into the FTSE 250 Index, the Board intends to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive Director to complement and add to its existing expertise, knowledge and skills base.
co. uk investors #corporate-governance 52 See The Board of Directors p54-55 See Directors Remuneration Report p60-62 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 Board meetings All Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee During 2015, the Board held 11 formal scheduled meetings, with meetings and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs additional meetings as required.
These meetings were typically to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Where Directors are unable to held at the Managers office and were subject to a quorum of attend meetings, their comments are provided to the Chairman two Directors.
before the meeting and shared with the rest of the Board and the Manager.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, there were 19 Board meetings.
The table below shows each Directors attendance.
Because of the significant number of additional meetings during The Company continued in its growth phase during 2015, so the the year, it was not logistically feasible for all the Directors to Board convened a substantial number of additional meetings attend every meeting.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied during the year, to consider and implement equity fundraisings, that all the Directors, including the Chairman, have sufficient debt financings and to consider investment opportunities.
time to meet their commitments to the Company.
The Board followed a formal agenda at its meetings, which the Anti-bribery and corruption Company Secretary circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is A typical agenda includes reviewing investment performance, committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
assessing the progress of new investment opportunities, In considering The Bribery Act 2010, at the date of this report, reviewing asset management initiatives at existing investments, the Board had assessed the perceived risks to the Company reviewing the Companys strategy, reviewing the Companys arising from bribery and corruption and to identify aspects of historical financial performance and future forecasting, an the business which may be improved to mitigate such risks.
The update on investor relations and an update on any regulatory or Manager actively reviews and monitors perceived risks in order compliance issues advised by the Manager or other advisers.
When considering investment opportunities, the Board reviewed detailed written proposals prepared by the Manager and approved all investment decisions.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2015 The following table shows the Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings, where they were eligible to attend, during the year.
BOARD MEETINGS BOARD MEETINGS AUDIT NOMINATION MANAGEMENT ELIGIBLE TO ATTEND ATTENDED COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Meetings held 19 4 1 2 Richard Jewson 19 18 4 1 2 Jim Prower 19 19 4 1 2 Stephen Smith 19 15 4 1 2 Mark Shaw 19 14 N A 1 1 53
