Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS Board performance and evaluation The evaluation process produced a sound set of results, with We believe that an annual review of Board effectiveness is a generally high level of consensus across the Directors.
As an important process to assist in identifying areas for future the Company matures, future evaluations may invite input improvement or focus, taking into account the Boards balance from other stakeholders such as the Manager.
The evaluation of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company concluded that the Boards performance in relation to the seven and diversity, as well as how the Board works together as a unit key objectives was good but the following areas were identified and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
as areas for improvement: In April 2015, we commissioned an external evaluation of how Administration of and procedures for Board meetings: the Board and its Committees function and the performance Board succession planning: of the Chairman by the independent corporate advisory firm, Board Evaluation Limited.
Board Evaluation Limited has no other Director training: and connection to the Company.
Composition of the Audit Committee.
The aim of the evaluation was to obtain the views of Board Accordingly, since the evaluation process, the Board has members that would provide an insight into the Boards implemented various initiatives including new procedures for effectiveness highlight actions required to improve its the dissemination of Board papers and agenda management performance and establish a benchmark for measuring future and a programme for Director training that commenced in progress.
The evaluation was conducted using a questionnaire January 2016.
The Nomination Committee has considered Board which was completed by all the Directors and returned to Board succession planning see page 52 and the composition of the Evaluation Limited who summarised the feedback in a report for Audit Committee will be considered when a new Independent discussion by the Board.
The evaluation assessed the performance of the Board in Training and development relation to its seven key objectives, which have been designed The Board believes that the Directors should develop their to ensure that the Board operates efficiently and the Company skills and knowledge by attending courses and by holding runs smoothly and include measures such as a review of the other positions.
The Chairman is responsible for reviewing performance of the investments and an assessment of progress and discussing each Directors training and development on new investment possibilities at each Board meeting, using needs.
Accordingly, a Director training programme has been the following effectiveness measures: established for 2016 to assist the Directors to effectively undertake their duties and to comply with the Companys Controls and procedures including financial : corporate governance obligations.
Strategic aims: Upon appointment, all Directors took part in discussions Entrepreneurial leadership: and with the Chairman and other Directors to understand their responsibilities and the Companys business and procedures.
The Company also provides regular opportunities for the Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of its business, Each Director was asked to complete a detailed questionnaire.
by meeting senior representatives of the Manager and other Board Evaluation Limited collated the responses, presented its service providers, both in person and by phone.
findings in a written report to the Board and attended a Board meeting in July 2015 to discuss the results of the evaluation with the Board.
See Nomination Committee Report p57 56 See Audit Committee Report p60-62
