Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Board Committees The Investment Committee The Board has a number of standing Committees, The Investment Committee consists of the namely the Remuneration, Audit, and Nominations Executive Directors, the Operations Director and the Committees to enable the Board to operate effectively Development Director.
It is also attended by the Head and ensure a strong governance framework.
of Asset Management, Head of Investment and Head of Business Development.
The Investment Committee Each Committee has written terms of reference which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and meets were reviewed by each of the Committees and the every two weeks.
The purpose of the Committee is Board during the year.
The terms of reference for the to review and approve disposals and acquisitions of Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees investment property assets: approve and monitor are available for inspection on the Companys website asset management property improvements and make at www.
recommendations to the Board for its approval of any property initiative with a value of more than 2m.
Each of these Committees is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the appointed by the Board.
Board members receive Executive and Investment Committees.
minutes of meetings of all the Boards Committees and can request presentations or reports on areas Risk Committee of interest.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and comprises the Operations Director, The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
Company Secretary and Head of Finance.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by employees from across The activity of each Committee is described on the business.
The role of the Risk Committee is to: pages 73 to 99.
Promote the application of the risk management framework: The Executive Committee Agree an annual internal control review programme: The Executive Committee consists of the Executive Consider the results of reviews and implementation Directors together with the Operations Director of recommendations.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose of the Committee Effectiveness is to facilitate and assist the Chief Executive Officer in managing the day-to-day activities of the Group Board composition and addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees The Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing is vital to the success of the Company.
The Board and approving capital expenditure at certain levels considers there to be an appropriate balance between as determined by the Board: the monitoring of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors required operating and financial results against plans and to lead the business and safeguard the interest of budgets: and to ensure the effectiveness of risk shareholders.
The Boards current composition of management and control procedures.
The Executive a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors Committee has its own terms of reference.
and four Non-Executive Directors meets the requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, The Committee has met 18 times during the year excluding the Chairman, to be independent Nonended 31 March 2015.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are independent and this is explained in more detail on page 69 and in the Chairmans The responsibilities of the Executive Committee Governance Statement on pages 56 and 57. members include: The Non-Executive Chairman was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment and Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer Strategic management: investor relations: continues to be independent for the reasons stated on page 69. day-to-day operations: acquisitions and disposals: health and safety: staff: equal opportunities: During the year, Mr Stephen Hubbard was appointed remuneration: and training and development.
as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2014.
The Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer Finance: treasury: tax: company secretarial: biographies of all members of the Board are set out on pages 62 and 63.
The Nominations Committee investor relations: and the Groups IT strategy.
regularly reviews the composition of the Board to Chris Pieroni, Operations Director ensure that it has an appropriate and diverse mix of Portfolio performance: asset management: skills, experience, independence and knowledge of lettings and marketing: rent reviews: and renewals.
Each Director brings a particular range of skills and expertise to the deliberations of the Board.
Angus Boag, Development Director Planning consents: development of assets: valuations: disposals: sustainability: and environmental strategy.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board is actively considering diversity and Business experience and skills of the Board believes this to be an important factor when The Board currently has seven Directors that bring considering appointments to the Board.
As part considerable and diverse experience which enables of the recruitment process, the composition of them to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
the Board will be kept under review to ensure the Their experience, gained from varied commercial best balance of skills and experience is maintained.
backgrounds, includes technology, property Further details on our diversity policy can be development, marketing and finance, which enables found on page 72. them to support the executive team in delivering the Companys strategy.
The following table illustrates the business experience and skills held by each Director.
The mix and diverse range of skills create a highly effective Board, with the Directors individual and complementary qualities encouraging a high level of debate on strategic matters.
Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Leadership Strategy and Finance Shareholder Relations Chris Girling Non-Executive Senior Jamie Hopkins Independent Director Chief Executive Officer Chairman of Audit Committee Strategic Leadership Property Strategy Investor Relations Finance Infrastructure and Development Projects Damon Russell Graham Clemett Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer THE BOARD Digital and media technology Finance Key client relationships Capital Markets Business strategy Investor Relations Maria Moloney Stephen Hubbard Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Remuneration Property Committee Regeneration and Development Projects Marketing Investment and Law transactions Business Development Related information: Board and Executive biographies p. 62 to 63 68 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Commitment Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive The Board has considered the independence of all Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the of the Non-Executive Directors and concluded that Companys business.
Non-Executive Directors are each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil to be independent of the executive management the role and asked to confirm that they can make the and free from any business or other relationship required commitment.
Letters of appointment for the which could materially interfere with the exercise Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection of their independent judgement.
All Non-Executive at the AGM.
Directors act in a robustly independent manner and bring constructive challenge to Board discussions Executive Directors are encouraged to take a and independent decision-making to their Board non-executive position in other companies and and Committee duties.
During the year, the organisations.
The appointment to such positions is independence of Stephen Hubbard, being a new subject to the approval of the Board which considers, Non-Executive Director, was specifically considered.
in particular, the time commitment required.
The Board considers the Chairman, Daniel Kitchen, to be independent as he is independent in character Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and judgement.
He is also considered to be a valuable Officer and Senior Independent Director member of the Board taking into account his The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive extensive experience.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director are separate and the division The Board believes that no long-standing relationship of responsibilities has been clearly established.
which may be deemed to compromise independence has been formed with any of the Executive Directors The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership or senior executives at Workspace.
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman facilitates the effective The Board is committed to actively refresh its contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and membership and that of its Committees in line with its ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely and succession planning process which has been evident clear information.
He is also responsible for effective during the last 12 months with the appointment of communication between the Board and shareholders.
Stephen Hubbard as a Non-Executive Director on The Chairman is not involved in an executive capacity 16 July 2014. in any of the Groups activities.
We continue to review and monitor Board and Board During the year the Chairman held a number of Committee composition against our skills and meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, without experience requirements.
the Executive Directors being present.
The discussions largely revolved around succession planning.
The tenure of independent Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2015 is set out in the chart below.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group and the determination of the strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Length of tenure of independent Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2015 The Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the meeting of the Non-Executive Directors 3 years for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance and to provide an alternative 2.4 years communication channel for shareholders if required.
1.7 years 0.8 years Maria Chris Damon Stephen Moloney Girling Russell Hubbard Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Induction, training and development A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Board performance evaluation Groups business and its governance arrangements.
The Board recognises the benefit of annual evaluation, Such inductions typically include meetings with senior enabling it to improve its effectiveness and focus and management, site visits and presentations of key that of its Committees and Directors.
The Boards business areas and other relevant documentation.
progress against the matters identified from the In addition, Directors are encouraged to update their 2014 Board effectiveness review is shown below.
skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and through visits to estates, 2013 14 Board evaluation meetings with Senior Management and advisers.
We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of experience, and so we encourage them to attend Continue to develop succession planning.
external seminars and briefings that will assist them individually.
On appointment, Stephen Hubbard Progress during 2014 15: participated in the Board induction programme.
One new Non-Executive Director, Stephen Hubbard, was appointed to the Board during the year.
Stephen has extensive property Introducing new Directors to the Groups experience which complements the existing skills of the Board.
business and governance arrangements Conscious of changing legislation, dedicated updates and presentations to continue 1.
during the course of the year.
Progress during 2014 15: During the year, Directors received updates at the Board and Committee meetings on external 2.
corporate governance and other regulatory changes likely to impact the Company.
The Companys legal advisers and external auditor also attended a Board Meeting during 3.
A ttend presentations of key the year to provide an update on legal and business areas and other regulatory developments.
Updates were also provided by the Company Secretary during the course of the year.
With the assistance of the Company Secretary, specific needs and interests of Directors to be considered as part of the Board Development Programme.
Through the Board development programme, the Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant Progress during 2014 15: legislation, regulations and corporate governance The Company Secretary considered details matters, with the assistance of the Companys legal of updates and development programmes advisers and external auditor, where appropriate.
received from advisers and other parties during Directors have access to independent professional the year and forwarded events of specific advice at the Companys expense where they judge interest to Directors.
this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Further site visits will be arranged for Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board Directors during the course of the year.
for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Company Secretary Progress during 2014 15: Carmelina Carfora is the Company Secretary to Directors have independently visited sites the Board of Workspace Group PLC.
Her biography during the year.
When appropriate, Board can be found on page 63.
Through the Chairman, Meetings will also be held at sites within Carmelina is responsible for advising the Board the portfolio.
on matters of corporate governance and ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
She also ensures good information flows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
70 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 In accordance with our policy to undertake the Board evaluation process externally every three years, The results of the evaluation were presented at the March 2015 Board Meeting.
The Board effectiveness for the year under review our Board evaluation was undertaken by Sean OHare of Boardroom Dialogue review concluded that the Board is working well and that each Director continues to contribute Ltd, who was selected after conducting a competitive tendering process.
Boardroom Dialogue Ltd provides effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Specific recommendations from the externally no other services to the Company.
The process covered the Board and its Committees.
The scope facilitated Board effectiveness review are set out below: and focus of the review was agreed in advance with the Chairman.
One-to-one interviews were conducted Refine the structure of the strategy day held by with each member of the Board, members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary the Board and how strategic discussions may be facilitated.
to ascertain their views on the subjects detailed in the diagram below: Continue the focus on succession planning, with greater visibility of the succession plans for senior management.
Board and Committee evaluation Review the current induction process with the introduction of customer engagement and Non-Executive Directors to be advised of customer events during the year to which they may attend.
Performance Increased interaction between the Board and and remit of senior management.
Committees The recommendations are included in the action plan for 2015 16 and will be reviewed regularly by the Board.
Chairmans evaluation The Senior Independent Director normally chairs an annual meeting of Executive and Non-Executive Ongoing Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address any development of strategy other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome of these discussions is conveyed by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
However, during the year under review, the Topics Chairmans performance was appraised as part of covered the external Board evaluation.
The review concluded that the Chairman is highly respected and is valued for his industry knowledge.
Furthermore, he was complimented by all for his leadership and for his inclusive style during Board meetings.
Induction and training Succession planning Related information: Nominations Committee Report p. 73 to 74 Induction, training and development p. 70 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Election and re-election of Directors The Board does not consider it appropriate at this time to All Directors will stand for election or re-election at set targets on gender diversity as all appointments will be the AGM on 15 July 2015.
Following the external Board made on merit.
Gender and wider diversity, however, will evaluation review, the Chairman considers that each continue to be taken into account when evaluating the Director continues to operate as an effective member skills and experience desired to fill each Board vacancy.
of the Board and has the skills, knowledge and experience that enable them to discharge their duties Takeover directive effectively in fulfilling their duties on the Board and as Share capital structures are included in the Directors members of the Board Committees.
Consequently, the Report on page 102.
Board has accepted the recommendations provided by the Nominations Committee and is of the opinion Going concern that the Directors seeking election and re-election at Going Concern disclosures are included in the the Annual General Meeting have continued to give Directors Report on page 101. effective counsel and commitment to the Company and accordingly should be appointed or reappointed Relations with shareholders by the Groups shareholders at the upcoming Annual A high priority is given to communication with General Meeting.
shareholders and the Company maintains regular dialogue with major shareholders and fund managers.
Mr Hopkins and Mr Clemett have service contracts and details can be found on page 96.
None of the In October 2014, Workspace hosted two events for Non-Executive Directors have service contracts.
The events showcased the Groups recent acquisitions, current refurbishments Maria Moloneys first term of appointment as Nonand development activity and how Workspace plans Executive Director expired on 22 May 2015.
Following to continue to drive value and growth.
Workspace a review of her performance, the Nominations also participated in EPRAs Annual Conference in Committee recommended that her appointment September 2014 and took registered guests on a should be extended for a further three-year term.
tour of a selection of the Groups assets.
This recommendation was agreed by the Board.
Executive Directors are the Companys principal Mr Hubbard was appointed as a Non-Executive Director representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on press and other interested parties.
Mr Hubbard therefore stands for election institutional shareholders are held on a range of issues at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
throughout the year affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcements The appointment of Chris Girling, Maria Moloney, of the annual and interim results.
Other ad hoc Damon Russell and Stephen Hubbard may be meetings, presentations and site visits are arranged terminated by either the Company or any one for shareholders, analysts and media throughout the of them giving three months notice in writing.
year in the UK, Europe and the United States.
Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages The Board receives reports of meetings with 62 and 63. institutional shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand the views of shareholders.
Diversity The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all Policy on diversity shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also Workspace employs enthusiastic, committed and available in the investor section of the Companys well-trained people.
The Board is fully committed to website www.
co. uk, which additionally an active Equal Opportunities Policy from recruitment contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and selection, through training and development, and published financial results and presentations.
All decisions relating to employment practices are objective, free Annual General Meeting from bias and based solely upon work criteria and The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with individual merit.
Workspace has a good record of an opportunity to communicate with, and answer promoting and appointing women to senior positions.
questions from, private and institutional shareholders The employee gender profile is fairly evenly split with and the whole Board is available after the meeting, in a total of 50% female and 50% male employees.
particular, for shareholders to meet the new Director.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual The Board recognises the benefits of diversity of General Meeting on 15 July 2015 can be found in the skills, knowledge and independence, as well as gender, Notice of Annual General Meeting which is available ethnicity and sexual orientation diversity.
co. uk and will be despatched to year, the Board formally discussed and reviewed its shareholders who have requested a hard copy policy regarding diversity, including gender, on the of the documentation from the Company.
Board and within the Group as a whole.
As a result the Board requested that going forward, diversity becomes The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and a formal area for consideration in Board effectiveness Nominations Committees normally attend the Annual reviews and in its succession planning.
Consequently, General Meeting and are available to answer any diversity will form part of considerations afforded to questions.
All Directors normally attend the meeting.
the search and selection process for Directors and staff.
72 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
