Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Audit Committee Report Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Members of the Committee Maria Moloney Damon Russell Stephen Hubbard For full biographies see pages 62 and 63.
This Report of the Audit Committee details the key Audit Committee scheduled meetings activities of the Committee during the year under and attendance review, alongside its principal responsibilities.
The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the 4 meetings financial reporting process, monitors the effectiveness Chris Girling of internal control, risk management and the statutory Damon Russell audit and monitors the independence of the statutory 1 Bernard Cragg auditors and the provision of non-audit services.
Maria Moloney A new audit partner has been appointed this year 2 Stephen Hubbard following the completion of the five-year rotation period by the previous partner.
Bernard Cragg retired from the Board on 16 July 2014.
The Audit Committee met four times during the 2.
Stephen Hubbard was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 July 2014: consequently, Mr Hubbard attended his year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the first Board Meeting on 16 July 2014. table opposite.
By invitation, there were a number of attendees at each of the Committees meetings.
Regular attendees included the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Finance and external auditors.
The Committee also met privately Dear Shareholder during the year with the external auditors.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased During the year under review the Audit Committee to present its report for the year ended 31 March considered a number of topics, the most significant 2015.
Although this is my first report as Chairman of which are described below.
A description of of the Committee, I have been a member of the the main activities and information on the other Committee since my appointment on 7 February significant issues that the Committee considered 2013.
I succeeded Bernard Cragg who stepped during the year can be found on pages 76 and 77. down after last years Annual General Meeting after more than 10 years service.
I would like to Chris Girling thank Bernard for his considerable contribution Chairman of the Audit Committee to the work of the Committee.
2 June 2015 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of Main activities during the year a sound internal control and risk management system, The agendas for the four scheduled meetings of details of which are described on pages 78 and 79. the Committee during the year under review were The Committees main role and responsibilities are set organised around the Companys reporting out in its terms of reference and are available on the schedule.
The Committee considered amongst Companys website at www.
other matters: the interim and annual financial statements The Audit Committee comprises all the Nonand matters raised by management and the Executive Directors, except the Chairman, and is external auditors: chaired by Chris Girling.
During the year, Stephen the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Hubbard joined the Committee.
The Group audit policies and practices: partner from the external auditors attends the the full and half year valuations and the external Audit Committee Meeting at least twice a year.
valuation process: the review of the Groups system of internal The Board is satisfied that Chris Girling has controls and risk management: the required level of relevant financial and accounting health and safety update: experience required by the provisions of the Code, representation letters to the external auditors: having previously held chief financial officer positions the strategic risks for the Group and in public companies.
Chris, who is a Chartered emerging risks: Accountant is currently a Non-Executive Director determining and recommending to the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Keller that the Annual Report taken as a whole was PLC and South East Water Limited.
fair, balanced and understandable: review of a Cyber Risk Assessment developed The Audit Committee collectively has the skills by members of the Risk Committee following and experience required to fully discharge its duties, a workshop held in December 2014: and it has access to independent advice at the reviewed accounting for the Glebe Proceeds Companys expense.
Share Agreement and terms of buyout completed in December 2014: During the year, the Committee met twice corporate reporting updates and approach to in private sessions with its external auditors, the 2015 Annual Report:  LLP PwC, in the absence the Groups compliance with REIT legislation: of management.
the Companys approach to compliance with legislation and regulations, including Committee meetings arrangements for staff to raise concerns in Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with confidence and ensures independent key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
investigation of any such matter: The Committee Chairman reports the outcome of the performance of the external auditor, the meetings to the Board.
During the year under external audit process, the audit and non-audit review the Committee met four times.
fee and independence and taking into consideration relevant professional and The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures it regulatory developments including mandatory gives thorough consideration to matters of particular auditor tendering: importance to the Company, and additional matters the need and use for an internal audit function are considered when appropriate.
The Committee and specific reviews carried out by head receives appropriate information far enough in office staff: advance to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
the review of fraud risk: and This includes not only information from management the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
but also detailed reports from the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Senior Management team together with senior representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend all or part of meetings as appropriate.
76 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Significant issues considered by the Committee The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Matter considered Action taken by the Committee The valuation of the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring Valuation of significant judgement.
The outcome is significant for the Group in terms of its the investment investment decisions, results and remuneration.
property portfolio The valuation is conducted externally by independent valuers.
The valuers presented the year-end valuation to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the valuation, challenging the key assumptions and judgements.
The valuers proposed significant increases in the values, particularly in relation to properties where developments have progressed and active management has increased current rents.
These values were discussed in detail by the Audit Committee in consideration of the current market outlook and the stage of progress on significant developments.
The objectivity and independence of the valuers is monitored by the Audit Committee.
PwC also met with the valuers and presented their views on the valuation to the Committee.
Based on the above, the Committee was satisfied that the methodology, assumptions and judgements used by the valuers were appropriate and that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
Settlement of the During the year, the Group has accounted for the Glebe Proceeds Share Agreement Proceeds Share as an equity instrument under IAS 32 representing Glebe Proceeds a non-controlling interest NCI in the assets of Workspace Glebe Limited.
Share Agreement The agreement was terminated in December 2014 and the NCI was extinguished.
The Group was previously in discussions with the Financial Reporting Council FRC regarding the accounting for the Glebe Proceeds Share Agreement.
As a result of these discussions, the Directors revised the application of the accounting policy so that a liability was only recorded when the Group had an unconditional legal obligation to make a distribution to the non-controlling interests.
As such the amount of 11m calculated as attributable to the former lenders at 31 March 2014 was reclassified during the year and reported as a non-controlling interest rather than as a liability.
The discussions with the FRC were concluded following the adjustments and disclosures made in the Interim Statement.
In December 2014 an agreement was reached with the former lenders to terminate the Proceeds Share Agreement for a cash settlement of 30m.
As at the date of settlement, the non-controlling interest recognised in relation to the Proceeds Share had a carrying value of 20m.
As a result of this settlement, the Group extinguished non-controlling interests of 20m and recorded a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of 10m.
The Audit Committee considered the accounting treatment of the Proceeds Share Agreement at both the 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015 and believes that the Groups accounting for, and disclosures of, the Proceeds Share are appropriate.
As a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Workspace must comply with specific Compliance with rules so as to benefit from a tax exempt status.
These rules are complex and the REIT regime the tax exempt status has a significant impact on the Groups business and financial statements.
Management monitor REIT compliance on an ongoing basis.
The Group is in ongoing discussions with HMRC regarding the application of certain criteria.
The Audit Committee has kept the position under review and does not consider that these discussions have any immediate financial impact and no further action is required until the discussions are concluded.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In addition, the Audit Committee has considered a 1.
A self-review threat this is where, in providing number of other judgements which have been made a service, the PwC audit team could potentially by management, none of which had a material impact evaluate the results of a previous PwC service.
The Audit Committee specifically will not allow the auditors to: Internal audit Provide accounting or book-keeping services.
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have Prepare financial statement disclosure items.
an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Audit Committee.
A self-interest threat where a financial instructs the undertaking of a programme of financial, or other interest of an individual or PwC operational and health and safety internal audits at its will inappropriately influence an individuals estates.
These are carried out by qualified senior Head judgement or behaviour.
Office personnel on a rotational basis.
All findings are The Audit Committee will specifically perform reported to the Risk Committee with any significant the following: findings reported to the Audit Committee.
If the external auditor is to be considered for the provision of non-audit services, their scope of work Audit tendering and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief PwC has been Workspaces auditor since 1988 following Financial Officer and the Committee Secretary and, the last competitive tender that the Group held.
A new in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single PwC audit partner has been appointed to the role this project, by the Audit Committee or if approval year.
However, it is currently expected that we will is required before the next meeting, by the Audit look to rotate PwC inside the timeframe required Committee Chairman.
For larger assignments in under both the EU and UK Competition and Markets excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive Authority transitional rules on mandatory firm rotation tender process unless there are compelling and tendering.
Thereafter a policy of putting the commercial or timescale reasons to use the external external audit contract out to tender at least every auditor or another specific accountancy firm.
It does not accept significant contingent fee arrangements with the external auditors.
A resolution to reappoint PwC for the 2016 audit will be proposed at the AGM.
An advocacy threat this is where PwC or PwC personnel promote an audit clients Non-audit services position to the extent where PwCs objectivity The Audit Committee terms of reference establish as auditor is compromised.
a process for monitoring and approving the nature The Group will not use PwC in an advocacy role.
and the level of related fees for non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or due diligence work paid to 4.
A familiarity threat this is where, because the Group external auditors.
The process requires prior approval by the Audit Committee Chairman of a too long or too close a relationship, the for non-audit work exceeding 50,000. external auditors independence is affected.
The Audit Committee will prohibit the hiring of The Group uses the external auditor for relevant former employees of the external auditor associated financial work for a variety of reasons, including their with the Groups audit into management roles with knowledge of the Group, the audit-related nature of significant influence within the Group within two the work and the need to maintain confidentiality.
years following their association with the audit, unless the Chairman of the Audit Committee gives At each meeting, the Audit Committee will be advised prior consent.
Annually, the Audit Committee will of any significant non-audit work awarded to the be advised of any new hires caught by this policy.
external auditor since the previous meeting and the However, there have been no instances of this related fees.
At the annual May meeting, the Audit occurring.
In addition, PwC will rotate their lead Committee receive a report of fees, both audit and audit partner every five years.
Sonia Copeland non-audit from PwC for the past financial year.
The has taken over as lead partner for the year ended Committee has considered in detail the nature and 31 March 2015, replacing Bowker Andrews who level of non-audit services provided by PwC and the completed his five years in the role as lead partner.
The Committee may challenge and in The Audit Committee will monitor on an ongoing some instances refuse proposals in respect of nonbasis the relationship with the external auditors to audit work to be performed by the external auditor.
ensure their continuing independence, objectivity and effectiveness by reviewing their tenure, quality In addition, the Audit Committee will assess the threats and fees.
of self-review by the external auditors, self-interest, advocacy, familiarity and management.
Management threat this occurs when out below and considered in relation to PwCs services: the audit firm performs non-audit services and management make judgements based on that work.
The Group will not use PwC for any services which would be considered management responsibility.
78 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Audit fees The Risk Committee reviews and identifies risks facing Fees paid to PwC can be found in note 2 on page 118. the Group and ensures that appropriate controls are in place to review each issue raised.
Each identified risk is assigned a Risk Owner.
The Risk Committee have Financial reporting also devised an annual plan of work where a review The Audit Committee considers all financial is undertaken of particular areas of the business.
information published in the annual and half year Depending on the nature of the project, a third-party financial statements and considers accounting consultant may be appointed to assist in the review.
policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the financial information.
The Group has continued to develop its risk management framework and has reappraised its The Directors are responsible for preparing the risks, including the impact of cyber security, in light Annual Report.
At the request of the Board, the of the changes in the external environment during Committee considered whether the 2015 Annual the last year.
Report was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for The Group has also considered the requirements of shareholders to assess Workspaces performance, the Bribery Act 2010 and taken steps to ensure that business model and strategy.
It was satisfied that, it has adequate procedures as set out by the Act.
taken as a whole, the 2015 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and included the The Group continues to strengthen its risk management necessary information.
It confirmed this to the Board, processes to ensure these are embedded as part of whose statement in this regard is set out in the the Groups culture.
The Turnbull Guidance sets out Directors Responsibility Statement on page 104. best practice on internal control to assist companies in applying the Codes principles with regards to Internal control and risk management internal control.
The Board, with advice from the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups Audit Committee continues to review the effectiveness risk management framework and system of internal of internal control with no significant failings or control and the ongoing review of their effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the Groups system of controls including financial, operational, compliance Further information on the Groups risks is detailed and risk management on a regular basis throughout on pages 27 to 33. the year.
However, any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any Whistleblowing material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a whistleblowing procedure by which employees may report suspicion of fraud, The Company has established processes and financial irregularity or other malpractice.
There is procedures necessary to enable the Directors to also a process in place for staff to report operational report on internal controls in compliance with the risks and issues to the Risk Committee.
These processes and procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group.
Code of Conduct The Group has a Code of Conduct which The other key elements of the Groups system explains how employees are expected to fulfil their of internal control include: responsibilities by acting in the best interests of a comprehensive system of financial reporting: the Group.
This includes compliance with laws and an organisational and management Board structure regulations: acting fairly in dealing with customers, with clearly defined levels of authority and division suppliers and other stakeholders: treating people with of responsibilities: respect and operating within a control framework.
a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and is attended by representatives from senior management and operational staff.
The Risk Committee formally reports to the Audit Committee twice a year: and a programme of site audit visits, covering a significant proportion of the sites each year.
Although the Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function, an operational, finance and health and safety audit are carried out at the estates by qualified Head Office personnel.
The results of the audits are reported to and reviewed by the Risk and Audit Committees and appropriate action taken as required.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
