THE BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BIOGRAPHIES 4.
Maria Moloney Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Board Committee memberships: Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Background and relevant experience: Maria Moloney was appointed to the Board in May 2012.
Committee memberships: She was previously on the Board of the Belfast Harbour Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a Commissioners, the Industrial Development Board member of the Remuneration Committee.
for Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Transport Holdings, Independent Television Commission, Background and relevant experience: London and Broadcasting Authority of Ireland.
Daniel Kitchen was appointed to the Board on 6 June 2011 and subsequently took on the role as Chairman in Current external appointments: July 2011.
He was previously Deputy Chief Executive at Maria, a lawyer, is currently on the Board and a Heron International plc and prior to that was Finance Trustee of the N. Ireland Cancer Centre in Belfast.
Director at Green Property for eight years.
He retired as Non-Executive Chairman of Irish Nationwide Building Society in July 2011 and as Non-Executive Director of Kingspan Group PLC in May 2012.
Chris Girling Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Current external appointments: Chairman of the Audit Committee He is currently Chairman of Hibernia REIT plc, a Non-Executive Director of LXB Retail Properties Committee memberships: PLC, Irish Takeover Panel Limited and Governor Member of the Remuneration and Nominations of St Patrick Hospital in Dublin.
Background and relevant experience: Chris Girling, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed 2.
Jamie Hopkins to the Board in February 2013.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director of Carillion PLC.
Background and relevant experience: Current external appointments: Jamie Hopkins was appointed to the Board Chris is currently a Non-Executive Director and as a Non-Executive Director in June 2010 then Chairman of the Audit Committees of Keller PLC and subsequently took on the role as Chief Executive South East Water Limited and Chair of Trustees for Officer on 1 April 2012.
He was previously Chief the Slaughter and May Pension Fund.
Executive and then a Non-Executive Director of Mapeley PLC and a Director of Chester Properties.
Prior to that, Jamie was a Director of Delancey Estates and Savills.
Damon Russell Non-Executive Director Current external appointments: Jamie is a member of the Corporate Board of Great Committee memberships: Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity and a Member of the Remuneration, Audit and member of the London Enterprise Panels Small Nominations Committees.
and Medium Enterprise Working Group.
Background and relevant experience: Damon was appointed to the Board in May 2013.
Damon is currently Chairman of New Telecom Express 3.
Graham Clemett Group, an interactive media service provider, and Chief Financial Officer has more than 20 years experience in the industry.
He co-founded the company in 1989.
Telecom Express Background and relevant experience: was sold to AMV BBDO, part of the Omnicom Group, Graham Clemett joined the Board as Finance in 1998.
In 2004, Damon led a successful Director in July 2007.
Previously he was Finance management buyout.
Director for UK Corporate Banking at RBS Group PLC where he worked for a period of five years.
Current external appointments: Prior to that, Graham spent eight years at Reuters Damon holds advisory roles for a number of smaller Group PLC, latterly as Group Financial Controller.
companies in the digital media sector.
62 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 7.
Stephen Hubbard Non-Executive Director Executive Committee Committee memberships: Member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Angus Boag Development Director Background and relevant experience: Stephen Hubbard was appointed to the Board in Background and relevant experience: July 2014.
Stephen is currently Chairman of CBRE Angus Boag joined the Group in June 2007 as UK.
He joined Richard Ellis in 1976 and held the Development Director.
He has extensive experience position of head of EMEA and UK Capital Markets in property and construction management and was a from 1998 to 2012. principal consultant at PA Consulting Group.
Prior to joining the Group he was at Manhattan Loft Corporation Current external appointments: for 12 years joining as Development Director and then Stephen is Chairman of London Business Network being appointed as Managing Director in 2001. and a member of the advisory board for Redevco which is a pan European property holding company.
Carmelina Carfora Company Secretary Background and relevant experience: Chris Pieroni joined the Group as Operations Director Background and relevant experience: in October 2007.
Chris is responsible for asset Carmelina Carfora was appointed Company management, marketing, professional services, brand Secretary in March 2010.
She was previously and business development.
Prior to joining Workspace, Group Company Secretary of Electrocomponents he worked at KPMG specialising in real estate and Plc.
She has also worked in the construction industry infrastructure finance.
He began his professional career and for a consultancy firm offering company teaching economics at Cambridge University.
a Non-Executive Director of the Group from 2000 until his retirement from the Board in August 2006.
Current external appointments: Chris was appointed as Chairman of the Business Centre Association in May 2014.
Board tenure Board gender diversity 51% 86% Male Female 80% 30% 19% 20% 14% 0-1 years 1-3 years 3 years Group Board Non-Executive Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
