CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance principles and Compliance with the UK Corporate compliance statement Governance Code The Board is committed to maintaining high standards The Board considers that it and the Company have, of corporate governance and we support and apply throughout the year ended 31 March 2015, complied the principles of good governance advocated by with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Code September 2012, which is the version of the The Board works with honesty and integrity which Code which applies to the Company for its financial it considers is vital to building a sustainable business year.
The application of the principles contained in for all of our stakeholders.
the Code is described below.
Detailed reports on Directors remuneration and the Audit Committee The Board believes that implementing a robust can be found on pages 80 to 99 and pages 75 to 79. governance and corporate social responsibility framework in which appropriate management structures, processes and safeguards are adopted Corporate Governance structure and are transparently communicated to shareholders The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic is essential in aiding sustainable long-term direction of the Group and the stewardship of its activities.
The Board has a number of standing committees to which specific responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
Leadership Corporate Governance structure Executive Committee Address Group-wide issues and initiatives.
Monitor the operating and financial results against plans and budgets.
Make recommendations to the Board for its approval of any Strategy business initiative with a value of more than 2m.
Review the effectiveness of risk management and control procedures.
Review and monitor progress of delivery against sustainability agenda.
Ongoing review of Health and Safety.
Page 67 Investment Committee Succession Approve any acquisition or disposal of investment properties.
planning Review and approve capital expenditure, disposals and certain property acquisitions within established levels of authority.
Review and monitor integration plans for acquisitions.
Approve and monitor development contracts.
Approve and monitor asset management and property improvements Page 67 Performance Audit Committee Ensure the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes.
Ensure maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system.
Review and monitor the external auditors independence, THE objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
Establish and implement the policy on non-audit services BOARD Shareholder Page 75 communications Nominations Committee Assess what new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board.
Recommend to the Board candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors NEDs of the Group.
Consider succession policies, talent management and Risk diversity services.
Page 73 Remuneration Committee Oversee all aspects of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Consider remuneration policy and practices of the workforce.
Corporate responsibility Page 80 64 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 The Chairman promotes open discussion among the An effective leadership structure Board members and encourages the Non-Executive Directors to constructively challenge strategic and The Board other business-related debate in order to ensure The Board is collectively responsible for the that the decisions adopted by the Board have performance and long-term success of the Company, been vigorously tested.
for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, control and management.
The Board will review and monitor To assist the Board in effectively discharging strategic plans and objectives, approve the acquisition its duties, Directors receive relevant supporting of investment properties, disposals, financing information, which includes but is not limited to arrangements and capital expenditure and of the the monthly Groups financial results, performance Groups systems of internal control, governance and reports and risk assessment reports.
Details of the Group strategy are Board routinely considers safety, environmental, set out in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 53. ethical and reputational issues in order to ensure that they are fully reflected in the risk Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by management process.
the Board to the Executive Committee, subject to formal delegated authority limits: however certain matters have been reserved for consideration by the Board.
Senior Management Attend regular meetings with the Executive and Investment Assist the Executive and Investment Committee in the running Committee to review performance and operational activity.
of day-to-day operations in line with Group strategy.
Review and track major initiatives.
External Auditor Audit and express an opinion on the financial statements for both the Group and subsidiaries in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Produce the interim and annual financial reports and Review the compliance with the REIT regime and overall associated announcements.
Establish and monitor financial processes of control and cash management.
Risk Committee Review and identify risks facing the Group.
Ensure that appropriate controls are in place to review each issue raised.
Provide reports to the Audit Committee.
External Recruitment Advise and assist the Nominations Committee in increasing Advise and assist the Committee in the search for the effectiveness of the Board and ensure that diversity appropriate candidates.
continues to be a major factor in profiling candidates.
Advisors Advise on administration and the tax treatment of share Advise on all aspects of executive remuneration and aspects option schemes and deferred share awards.
associated with the LTIP and other share schemes.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board and committee meetings attendance The governance framework implemented by the The Board has regular scheduled meetings and Group ensures that open communication channels met nine times during the past financial year.
exist between the Board, its principal Committees Supplementary meetings are also held as and and within the organisation.
Copies of Committee when necessary.
minutes are distributed to all Directors and Committee Chairmen report back to the Board.
The Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on which they Board activities serve and the Annual General Meeting AGM, and The full schedule of matters reserved for the to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to Board can be found on the Company website at enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
At least once a year the of Directors attendance at each of the Board and Board reviews the nature and scale of matters Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March reserved for its decision and these include: Dividend 2015 are set out in the table below.
Policy, Company Strategy, Board and Committee composition, significant funding decisions and corporate transactions.
Scheduled meetings and attendance Board 9 meetings Daniel Kitchen Jamie Hopkins Board activities in 2014 15 Graham Clemett During the year under review, the Board considered Damon Russell the following: 1 Bernard Cragg Maria Moloney Reviewed progress of the strategy and business objectives: Chris Girling In September 2014, the Board held its annual 2 Stephen Hubbard Strategy Day which included, amongst other matters, a review of the business plan objectives, Audit Committee 4 meetings a discussion on the economic outlook and Chris Girling consideration given to other growth opportunities: and Damon Russell 1 Review of risk and the Groups health and Bernard Cragg safety arrangements.
Maria Moloney 2 Stephen Hubbard Monitored trading performance of the business and considered other finance matters: Remuneration Committee 8 meetings Finance matters including budgets, business plans and significant refinancing opportunities: Maria Moloney In November 2014, the Company announced Daniel Kitchen the successful completion of a Cash-Box Placing, Damon Russell raising gross proceeds of approximately 96.5m: 1 Bernard Cragg In December 2014, the Company agreed terms with the former lenders of the Glebe Joint Venture for the Chris Girling termination of the Glebe Proceeds Share Agreement 2 Stephen Hubbard in return for a cash payment of 30m: and Annual and interim results, interim management Nominations Committee 5 meetings statements and dividends.
Daniel Kitchen Damon Russell Considered the Groups property valuation and 1 investment decisions: Bernard Cragg Approval of redevelopment activity and 3 Maria Moloney major developments: Chris Girling Significant investment decisions including five 2 Stephen Hubbard property acquisitions during the year of 80m: and We realised 44m from the disposal of 10 Notes: non-core Industrial Estates.
Bernard Cragg retired from the Board on 16 July 2014.
Stephen Hubbard was appointed to the Board with effect Reviewed succession planning and Board from 16 July 2014: consequently, Mr Hubbard attended his performance: first Board Meeting on 16 July 2014.
The Board engaged an external party to 3.
Maria Moloney did not attend one meeting of the undertake a review of its own performance Nominations Committee given that the meeting was to review and approve her reappointment.
and that of the Committees and the Directors: and Approval of Board appointments, retirements Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they and ensuring adequate succession planning is are still provided with papers in advance of the meeting in place.
and their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
66 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
