Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Nominations Committee Report Daniel Kitchen Chairman of the Nominations Committee Members of the Committee Stephen Hubbard Maria Moloney Chris Girling Damon Russell For full biographies see pages 62 and 63.
Dear Shareholder We continue to monitor I would like to welcome you to the report of the the composition of the Nominations Committee.
Board so that future Each year the Nominations Committee undertakes a review of succession planning to ensure that succession planning is the membership and composition of the Board, including the mix and balance of skills, continue to be appropriate.
This year, the Committees main managed effectively.
focus has been the recruitment, appointment and induction of our new Non-Executive Director, Stephen Hubbard who joined the Board on 16 July 2014.
The appointment process is described in more Nominations Committee scheduled meetings detail on page 74.
We are already benefiting from and attendance the wealth of experience that he brings in property as well as his sound judgement on all Board matters.
5 meetings Daniel Kitchen Again, in line with our action plan from last year, Damon Russell we have and will continue to focus on ensuring that 1 Bernard Cragg succession is a key agenda item.
We have spent time 2 looking at succession planning for the Executive Maria Moloney Director team as well as the Board over the medium Chris Girling to long term.
3 Stephen Hubbard Daniel Kitchen Notes: Chairman of the Nominations Committee 1.
Bernard Cragg retired from the Board on 16 July 2014.
Maria Moloney did not attend one meeting of the Nominations Committee given that the meeting was to review and approve her reappointment.
Stephen Hubbard was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 July 2014: consequently, Mr Hubbard attended his first Board Meeting on 16 July 2014.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Nominations Committee and advisers Non-Executive Director appointment The Nominations Committee has responsibility for In making recommendations to the Board on making recommendations on Board and Committee Non-Executive Director appointments, the composition, appointments and for developing Nominations Committee will consider the expected succession plans for the Board.
time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Director and other commitments they already have The members of the Nominations Committee as at to ensure that they have sufficient time available to 31 March 2015 and at the date of this report are listed devote to the Company.
The Nominations Committee met five times during the year, and attendance at these meetings Following the ongoing review of succession is shown on page 66. planning by the Nominations Committee and the skills, knowledge and experience required During the year, Spencer Stuart was appointed of Board members, the Committee agreed that as external recruitment consultants to conduct a new Non-Executive Director should be recruited the search for a new Non-Executive Director, with specific property expertise.
which culminated in the appointment of Mr Stephen Hubbard on 16 July 2014.
Spencer Stuart has no Spencer Stuart was appointed to assist with the other connection with the Company.
recruitment process and a broad brief was provided to ensure that the long list of candidates reflected the experience and skills required to complement the Board.
The Chairman met with a number of candidates and reviewed the respective skills, experience and fit Matters considered by the Committee of each with the Boards candidate profile.
Members during the year of the Committee then met with the shortlisted Reviewed the performance of the Company candidates.
The preferred candidate, Mr Stephen Chairman and recommended to the Board that Hubbard, also met with the Executive Directors.
Mr Daniel Kitchens appointment as Company Following these meetings, a recommendation was Chairman is extended for a further three-year made to the Board that, based on his significant term from 6 June 2014.
This meeting was property experience, Stephen Hubbard be appointed chaired by Mr Bernard Cragg who was Senior to the Board with effect from 16 July 2014.
The basis Independent Director at that time.
Mr Cragg of Stephen Hubbards induction was also agreed retired from the Board in July 2014. and included property tours, meetings with the Discussed Board composition and determined senior management team as well as appropriate the ongoing skills and experience required background reading.
on the Board: External search agents, Spencer Stuart, were engaged to assist in finding a new Non-Executive Director: Prepared candidate specifications for potential The full terms of reference of the Nominations Non-Executive Director candidates with Committee are available for inspection on the Spencer Stuart: Companys website at www.
The Committee met with a number of candidates to assess their appropriateness: Recommendation to the Board that Stephen Hubbard be appointed as NonExecutive Director: Review of succession plans for the Executive Directors and key senior managers with the Chief Executive Officer: and Recommended to the Board that Dr Maria Moloneys appointment as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee be extended for a further threeyear term from 22 May 2015.
74 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
