NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ensuring balance and diversity NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS David Tyler Chairman Pierre Bouchut appointed 13 February 2015 Gwyn Burr Terry Duddy Jacques Espinasse Andrew Formica appointed 26 November 2015 Judy Gibbons Anthony Watson retired 22 April 2015 and decided that Pierre Bouchut has the right mix of skills and DEAR SHAREHOLDERS experience for the role and recommended Pierres appointment I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report which to the Board.
Pierre has confirmed that he is able to make the time summarises our work during the year.
This report should be read in commitment required as Audit Committee Chairman and will conjunction with the separate report on page 102 which describes assume the role following the Annual General Meeting.
our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
BOARD BALANCE AND ARRAY OF SKILLS CHANGES TO THE BOARD This year, as it does annually, the Committee has also reviewed the A number of Board changes took place during the year.
Pierre composition of the Board.
As part of this review, the Committee: Bouchut was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2015.
His appointment process, led by the Committee, Considered the number of Executive and Non-Executive was described in last years Annual Report.
Following the Annual Directors on the Board and whether the balance is appropriate: General Meeting, Tony Watson stepped down after nine years on Reviewed the membership of the Committees: the Board.
Terry Duddy took on Tonys former role as Senior Considered the background professions and core skills and Independent Director.
experience of the Directors to ensure the right mix of skills: In November 2015, the Board was further strengthened by the Considered and confirmed that all the Non-Executives remain appointment of Andrew Formica as a Non-Executive Director and independent: and he also joined the Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Considered diversity, including gender.
Committee led the process which resulted in Andrew Formicas appointment.
Spencer Stuart was appointed to facilitate and Following this review the Committee has concluded that the advise in the process.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection Board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and with the Group and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of experience to operate effectively.
The Directors collectively bring Conduct of Executive Search Firms.
Andrews appointment was a range of expertise and experience of different business sectors the culmination of a process which began following the 2013 to Board deliberations which helps to ensure constructive and Board external effectiveness review when the Board concluded challenging debate around the boardroom table.
This array of that the next two Board appointments should bring further skills is illustrated in chart 61 on the next page.
European experience and investment and banking skills to the Board.
The Committee believes this has been achieved with the appointments of Pierre Bouchut and Andrew Formica who bring a range of skills including financial experience to strengthen existing expertise on the Board.
Jacques Espinasse will retire from the Board following the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has considered a successor for Jacques role as Chairman of the Audit Committee 78 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chart 61 SUCCESSION PLANNING Board experience by sector Succession planning was a particular area of focus for the Committee during 2015.
The Committee reviewed a formal report Finance, banking, fund management on the subject in respect of the Executive Directors and senior colleagues, subsequently receiving an update on progress during Property, regeneration projects the year.
Considerations included a review of the Companys plans French market, international business aiming to ensure that key roles at Board and Group Executive Committee level can be filled by other colleagues on an interim Customer service, customer behaviours basis.
A review of the talent in the Company was also considered to identify those individuals with the potential to fill more senior Retail roles over the medium and long term.
The Committee Digital technology, marketing acknowledges the size of the organisation means there are not obvious successors for every senior role.
Discussions were also Non-Executive Director Executive Director held about more junior individuals with high potential and plans were reviewed to help with their development.
The Committee will continue to focus on this area during 2016.
DIVERSITY There are currently two female Directors on the Board Chart 64 representing 18% of its composition.
This will increase to 20% Annual succession planning process when Jacques Espinasse steps down at the Annual General Meeting.
As previously stated, our aim is to maintain at least this level of female representation on the Board.
However, the paramount consideration is to maintain the right mix of skills, An annual review of Executive Director and Group knowledge, independence and experience on the Board.
For that Executive Committee GEC roles is undertaken to ensure reason, recommendations for any future appointments will interim short-term cover is available in the business for always be made on merit.
You can read more about the Companys these roles.
Medium and longer-term successors are identified diversity and inclusion strategy on page 51 of the Our People for roles, where possible.
section of the Strategic Report.
Chart 62 Executive Directors discuss their longer-term career Diversity aspirations with the Chief Executive.
Further opportunities Female: 2 for expanded roles and responsibilities are explored, if appropriate.
The Chief Executive presents a discussion paper to GENDER the Committee on the longer-term career aspirations of the Executive Directors.
A review of talent in the wider business is undertaken and GEC members engage with high potential individuals Male: 9 to discuss their career aspirations.
Personal development plans are drawn up.
Chart 63 Board balance Executive: 4 The Committee reviews succession plans.
High potential individuals are noted and the Committee takes opportunities to get to know these individuals.
BOARD The Committee receives updates on progress during the year.
BALANCE Non-Executive: 7 David Tyler Note: As at 31 December 2015 Chairman of the Nomination Committee HAMMERSON.
