COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section of the Corporate Governance Report details the All Directors are expected to: Companys compliance with the Principles set out in the Attend all meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published on 17 which they serve: September 2014 which is available at www.
This section Attend the Annual General Meeting AGM : and should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, which is set out on pages 69 to 111.
Devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
The Company has complied in full with the requirements of the Code during 2015.
2 Division of responsibilities The Chairman and Chief Executive have separate roles and A.
LEADERSHIP responsibilities which are clearly defined, documented and approved by the Board.
The Chairman, David Tyler, is responsible A.
1 The role of the Board for the operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive, David Atkins, The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys is responsible for leading and managing the business within the shareholders for the Companys long-term success and the authorities delegated by the Board.
delivery of its long-term strategic and operational objectives.
The Board sets the strategic direction, governance and values A.
3 The Chairman of the Group and has ultimate responsibility for its management, The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important direction and performance.
matters strategic issues in particular receive adequate time The Board operates through a sound risk management and and attention at meetings.
The annual Board strategy day is internal control system, details of which can be found on dedicated to considering the future direction of the Company pages 62 to 63 and 104 to 105 at the start of the business-planning process.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Further details of the 2015 Board strategy day can be found for its decision which can be accessed at www.
on page 76 The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
When he became Chairman in 2013, David Tyler was considered It held six of these in 2015.
Additional Board conference calls are independent.
In accordance with the Code, the continuing test of held between the formal Board meetings as required.
The table independence for the Chairman is not necessary.
below includes details of attendance at formal Board meetings and three scheduled Board conference calls during 2015.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors and senior management between formal Board meetings.
Table 96 Board and Committee meetings attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination David Tyler 9 9 5 5 2 2 David Atkins 9 9 1 Peter Cole 8 9 Timon Drakesmith 9 9 2 Jean-Philippe Mouton 8 9 Gwyn Burr 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 3 Pierre Bouchut 7 8 2 2 2 2 Terry Duddy 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 Jacques Espinasse 9 9 4 4 2 2 4 Andrew Formica 1 1 0 1 0 1 5 Judy Gibbons 9 9 3 4 5 5 2 2 6 Anthony Watson 1 1 2 2 2 2 1.
Peter Cole was unable to attend one Board conference call, due to a clash of meetings.
Jean-Philippe Mouton was unable to attend one Board meeting due to family commitments.
Pierre Bouchut was appointed to the Board on 13 February 2015.
He was unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
Andrew Formica was appointed to the Board on 26 November 2015.
He was unable to attend one Audit Committee and one Nomination Committee meeting due to travel disruption.
Judy Gibbons was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to a conflicting prior commitment.
Anthony Watson resigned following the AGM on 22 April 2015.
102 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION A.
2 Appointments to the Board The Senior Independent Director, Terry Duddy, is available to The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman address shareholders concerns on governance.
When and if and comprises all Non-Executive Directors, leads the process for necessary, he can also address concerns on other issues that have Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
not been resolved through the normal channels of communication The Committees terms of reference can be found at with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, or in www.
cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
He can Further details of the work of the Nomination Committee can also deputise for the Chairman in his absence, act as a sounding be found on pages 78 to 79 board for the Chairman and advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
Disclosures on diversity can be found on pages 51 and 79 The Senior Independent Director also chairs an annual meeting of Executive and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman During the year the Nomination Committee appointed an to appraise the Chairmans performance and address any other independent executive search firm, Spencer Stuart, which has no matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The Senior other connection with the Company, to identify non-executive Independent Director conveys the outcome of these discussions director candidates.
Following a thorough search and interview to the Chairman.
process, Pierre Bouchut and Andrew Formica were identified as potential candidates and recommended to the Board by the Anthony Watson retired from the Board following the 2015 AGM Committee.
Pierre Bouchut was appointed as a Non-Executive when Terry Duddy succeeded him as Senior Independent Director.
Director and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors as on 13 February 2015.
Andrew Formica was appointed as a necessary, but at least twice a year without the Executive Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit and Directors present.
If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or B.
3 Commitment a proposed action which cannot be resolved, these will be recorded The Board is satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors are in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2015. able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive Directors are advised when appointed of the time B.
EFFECTIVENESS required to fulfil the role and asked to confirm that they can make B.
1 The composition of the Board the required commitment.
Each individuals commitment to their role is reviewed annually as part of their annual appraisal.
Letters During the year the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available for experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and inspection at the AGM.
The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out on pages 108 and 109 of whom is independent from management and has no material or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise All Executive Directors are encouraged to take a non-executive independent judgement.
position in another company or organisation.
These appointments are subject to the approval of the Board which considers The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive particularly the time commitment required.
Directors each year in accordance with the criteria set out within the Code.
4 Development Jacques Espinasse will retire following the 2016 AGM.
There are All Directors receive an induction programme when appointed currently seven Non-Executive Directors including the to the Board, which takes into account their qualifications and Chairman and four Executive Directors on the Board.
All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and regulations and of changing financial and commercial risks.
Where appropriate the Companys legal advisors and external auditor assist in this regard.
Executive Directors are also subject to the Companys annual performance development review process in which their performance is reviewed against pre-determined objectives and their personal and professional development needs are considered.
The Chairman undertakes an annual appraisal of Non-Executive Directors performance, in which their training and personal development requirements are reviewed and agreed.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas considered appropriate for their professional development.
These include issues relevant to the Board and the Committees to which they belong.
COM 103 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued B.
7 Election and re-election The Directors have access to independent professional advice at All Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following the Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the their appointment.
Andrew Formica will stand for election at the General Counsel and Company Secretary who advises the Board AGM in April 2016 and the Board recommends his election.
It is on corporate governance matters.
The Board and its Committees planned that Jacques Espinasse will retire from the Board at the receive high-quality, up-to-date information for them to review conclusion of the AGM in April 2016.
All other Directors who are in good time before each meeting.
The General Counsel and subject to annual re-election are submitting themselves for Company Secretary ensures that Board procedures are followed re-election at the 2016 AGM.
and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable Biographical details for all Directors are on pages 108 and legislation.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary is also 109 and also in the Notice of Meeting for the 2016 AGM responsible for facilitating Directors induction, assisting with identifying and enabling appropriate training and Board Further discussion on the balance of skills and experience on the Board is provided on page 78 performance evaluation.
The appointment and removal of the General Counsel and C. ACCOUNTABILITY Company Secretary is a matter requiring Board approval.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting B.
6 Evaluation The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The General Counsel and Company Secretary undertook an necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and internal performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees performance, business model and strategy.
The next externally facilitated performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees will take place in 2016.
An explanation of the Groups strategy and business model is available on pages 1 to 48 The Chairman carries out a formal performance evaluation individually with each Non-Executive Director every year to A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the review whether the Non-Executive Director continues to financial statements is set out on page 113 contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent The Board has established processes for monitoring sound risk Director, are responsible for the annual evaluation of the management and internal control which allow it to review the Chairmans performance.
The Chairmans performance effectiveness of the systems in place within the Group.
A robust evaluation for 2015 was carried out in early 2016 and the Board assessment of the principal risks facing the Company has been was subsequently updated.
carried out during the year.
Following the internal Board effectiveness review in 2015, the The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over Directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operate a five-year period and have a reasonable expectation that the effectively and that each Director continues to contribute Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of this assessment.
More details of the internal Board effectiveness review are Further details about the Viability Statement can be found provided on page 69 on pages 67 and 83 The Going Concern Statement is on page 67 An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is set out on pages 64 to 67 and performance metrics are set out on pages 18 to 20 104 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Groups risk management and internal control systems are Promote the application of the risk management framework designed to: throughout the business: Encourage pro-active discussion of risk around the business: Safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition: Manage the annual internal audit programme: Ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records: Consider the results and recommendations of reviews: and Provide reliable information: Monitor the implementation of recommendations.
Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate potential impediments to the Group achieving its objectives: and The Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on key risks to the Group.
The Board allocates responsibility for the Ensure compliance with relevant legislation, rules and management of each key risk to the Executive Directors and regulations.
senior executives across the Group.
It must be recognised that the Groups internal controls provide The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its reasonable but not absolute assurance against material responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the misstatement or loss.
control environment and the Groups compliance.
Management has established a risk management framework Throughout the year the Committee monitored the effectiveness and put in place sufficient procedures necessary to enable the of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, Directors to report in compliance with the Code on internal including material financial, operational and compliance controls.
These involve the analysis, evaluation and management In particular the Committee reviewed: of the key risks to the Group, including a review of all material controls.
They also include plans for the continuity of the The external auditors management letters: Companys business in the event of unforeseen interruption.
Internal Audit reports including monitoring the Having monitored the Groups risk management and internal implementation of recommendations arising from them: controls, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material Reports on the system of internal controls and the risk controls, the Audit Committee has not identified any significant management framework: failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal control structure during the year.
The Companys approach to compliance with legislation and the prevention of fraud: The Risk and Controls committee supports the Audit Committee.
Business continuity and cyber risk: and It is not a committee of the Board but of executives from across the business and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The Gifts and entertainment and expenses registers.
committee reports its activities to the Group Executive Further explanation of the Companys approach to risk Committee.
The committees role is to: management is on pages 62 to 67 HAMMERSON.
COM 105 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued The Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors monitoring the Groups policy on the engagement of the external The Audit Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive auditor to supply non-audit services.
It holds four scheduled meetings per year, organised of the policy are that: around the Companys reporting schedule.
During 2015 the Audit Committee met four times.
The external auditor may not provide a service which places it in a position where it may be required to audit its own work, The Audit Committee Chairman regularly reports details of the such as book keeping or valuation services: and work carried out by the Audit Committee to the Board in accordance with its terms of reference.
Some services may be provided in specific or exceptional circumstances and may include tax compliance work, due Jacques Espinasse, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, diligence and property-related consultancy.
Each occasion is has been determined by the Board to have recent and relevant specifically assessed and authorised by an Executive Director financial experience as required by the Code.
Jacques Espinasse up to a limit of 50,000 and above that level by the Chairman will retire as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a Nonof the Audit Committee.
Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
He will be succeeded by Pierre Bouchut.
Deloittes remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 0.6m.
Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief received for other services provided by Deloitte to the Company.
Financial Officer and other members of the senior finance Confirmation is also sought that the fee payable for the annual management team together with senior representatives of audit is sufficient to enable Deloitte to perform its obligations in Deloitte LLP Deloitte are invited to attend all or part of meetings accordance with the scope of the audit.
In order to fulfil its duties as defined in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives presentations and See note 4 to the accounts on page 132 for further information on Deloittes remuneration reviews reports from the Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with Deloitte.
During 2015 non-audit services provided by Deloitte to the Company included acting as reporting accountants for tax-related The Audit Committee meets at least once a year with Deloitte work and reviewing the Groups sustainability reporting.
Fees for and with the internal auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, which non-audit services provided to the Company by Deloitte for the undertakes the majority of the Companys internal audit reviews, year ended 31 December 2015 were 0.1m.
with no Company management present.
The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of Deloitte DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited and Cushman & Wakefield and recommended it to the Board.
Deloitte is willing to be LLP the Valuers and Deloitte have full access to one another and reappointed as the external auditor to the Company and a the Chairman of the Committee meets with the Valuers and resolution concerning Deloittes reappointment will be proposed Deloitte as part of the half-year and year-end valuations to ensure at the 2016 AGM.
each is satisfied that there has been a full and open exchange of information and views.
Further details are provided in the terms of reference for the Audit Committee and the full policy on non-audit services, The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations available at www.
com of the Financial Reporting Council on regular and open communications between audit committees and external auditors The Committee oversees and monitors the policies and and it has concluded that the relationship with Deloitte meets procedures which form the core components of the Groups these recommendations.
adequate procedures under the Bribery Act including the Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing policy.
The Code of Conduct Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are explains how employees are expected to fulfil their responsibilities set out on page 80 by acting in the best interests of the Group and in line with its The experience and background of members of the corporate and financial objectives.
Audit Committee are on pages 108 to 109 A summary of the Code of Conduct is available at The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its www.
com responsibilities in relation to: The Whistleblowing policy sets out the procedures for employees Ensuring that management has systems and procedures in to report any suspicions of fraud, financial irregularity or other place to ensure the integrity of financial information: malpractice.
No reports of any such matters were received during the year.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity Reviewing the Companys internal audit arrangements: Public Concern at Work so that employees may have free access to Maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups its helpline.
external auditor Deloitte: and Reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of Details of how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year are provided in the Deloitte including the scope of work and the fees paid to Deloitte.
Audit Committee Report on pages 80 to 83 106 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION D. REMUNERATION E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS D. 1 The level and components of remuneration E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is The Company actively engages with shareholders.
to determine and agree with the Board the overall remuneration Throughout 2015 the Company attended a wide variety principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive of meetings, presentations and road shows.
Directors, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the other members of the Group Executive Committee.
The terms The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually.
shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand the views of The Chairman of the Committee reports regularly on the shareholders.
The Board takes account of corporate governance Committees activities at Board meetings.
guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies such as the Investment Association and the Pensions and The Directors Remuneration Report can be found on pages 84 to 101 Life Savings Association formerly National Association of Pension Funds or NAPF.
D. 2 Procedure Hammersons website contains information of interest to both When determining policy on executive remuneration the institutional and private shareholders.
Remuneration Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary.
These include: Further details about relations with shareholders can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 77 Relevant legal and regulatory requirements: and in the Directors Remuneration Policy available at The provisions of the Code: and www.
E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings Further details are provided in the terms of reference At general meetings, the proxy appointment form gives for the Remuneration Committee which are available at shareholders options either to direct their proxy vote for each www.
com resolution or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee The Company will ensure that the proxy appointment form and are on page 84 any announcement of the results of a vote will make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law: it will therefore not be counted Details of advisors who provided services to the when calculating the proportions of votes that were for and Remuneration Committee during the year are on page 99 against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointment forms are During 2015 no individual was present when his or her own properly recorded and counted.
After the vote has been counted, remuneration was being determined.
information is given on the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of shares representing withheld votes, both at the general meeting and on the Companys website.
Notice of a general meeting is despatched to shareholders at least 14 days in advance.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
When the Board is of the opinion that a significant proportion of the votes at any general meeting is cast against a resolution, the Company will explain when announcing the results of the vote, the actions it intends to take to gain an understanding of the reasons behind the result.
