AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Overseeing effective controls AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Jacques Espinasse Chairman Pierre Bouchut appointed 13 February 2015 Gwyn Burr Andrew Formica appointed 26 November 2015 Judy Gibbons Anthony Watson retired 22 April 2015 Another important aspect of the Committees work during 2015 DEAR SHAREHOLDERS was to approve an approach and managements plan for tendering I am pleased to present this report on behalf of the Audit Committee for the external auditor, which will not include the incumbent for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This should be read in auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte as a participating firm in the conjunction with the report on how we have complied with the process.
Further details of the approach and timetable are UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is on page 102. provided on page 83 of this report.
This is my last report as Chairman of the Committee as I shall be The Company is mindful of the Codes new requirements in stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual relation to risk and the monitoring of internal control systems.
Pierre Bouchut, who fulfils the During 2015, the Committee and the Board reviewed the Groups Code requirement of having recent and relevant financial Risk Management Framework thoroughly at each Committee experience, will succeed me as Chairman of the Committee.
Having monitored the Groups risk management and has also confirmed that he is able to make the necessary time internal controls system, and having reviewed the effectiveness of commitment to the role.
In addition, the other members of the material controls, the Committee has not identified any significant Committee also combine knowledge and experience of financial failings or weaknesses in the Groups control structure during matters, financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Committee met four times in the year with the meetings at A further new reporting requirement for 2015 is the Viability appropriate times in the Companys financial and regulatory Statement.
During the year the Committee considered and reporting cycle.
As I mentioned in the 2014 Annual Report, an discussed the requirements for the statement and further details additional meeting was included in January to allow the are provided on page 67 in the Strategic Report and on page 83 Committee extra time to scrutinise and debate the valuation of this report.
process by the Companys external valuers, DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited and Cushman & Wakefield LLP the Valuers.
The Committee undertook its annual performance and effectiveness review, based on a questionnaire which was The Committee met privately with the Companys internal and completed by the Committee and regular attendees.
The results external auditors during the year.
I also met privately with the indicated that the Committee was effective and carrying out its Valuers to ensure that they were comfortable with the 2015 year duties.
I am confident that the Committee continues to play a key end valuation process.
The Executive Directors and other senior role in ensuring that the appropriate governance and challenge managers were invited to attend as appropriate to provide updates around risk and assurance is embedded throughout the Group.
on various matters, participate in debate and answer questions posed by the Committee.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to my fellow Committee members for their support.
I would also like to thank Deloitte, on During the year the Committee paid particular attention to the behalf of the Board, for the continuing high quality of the audit significant financial judgements in relation to the financial services they have provided to the Group during the year.
statements and how they were addressed.
Their impact on the Groups results and the remuneration of senior management makes the significant financial judgements particularly important.
Jacques Espinasse The main areas of focus and how the Committee addressed those Chairman of the Audit Committee issues are set out in table 64 on page 81.
80 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS During the year the Committee considered the appropriateness of significant financial judgements made in connection with the financial statements as set out below: Table 64 Significant financial judgement considered How the Committee addressed the issue Valuation of the Groups property portfolio The Committee has a robust process to satisfy itself that the external including properties held by joint ventures valuation of the Groups property portfolio is appropriate.
The Committee and associates recognises that the Group operates in liquid and mature markets, in which there are well-established valuation practices.
The Committee is also familiar The valuation of the Groups property portfolio, with the processes by which management provides information to the including properties held in the Groups joint ventures Valuers.
The Committee reviewed the outcomes of the Valuers valuations, or associates, is a key risk due to its significance in the challenged their assumptions and was satisfied that the procedures and context of the Groups net asset value.
Although methodologies used were appropriate.
Current market conditions and recent valuations are conducted by the Valuers, and transactions were reviewed to provide context.
The Valuers were asked to thoroughly reviewed by the auditor, the valuation highlight any significant judgements and disagreements with management process requires a number of key judgements which and the Committee satisfied itself of the Valuers independence.
Committee was satisfied that the valuation of the Groups portfolio was The Valuers also value the Groups development prudent and reasonably-based.
properties and these are subject to the same level of review as the investment portfolio.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The Committee reviewed and challenged managements accounting proposals and key judgements in relation to acquisitions and disposals, in During the year the Group made a number of particular, the acquisition of the Irish loan portfolio see below.
The acquisitions and disposals, including interests in joint Committee was satisfied that the approach adopted was appropriate.
There are risks in the accounting process for these complex transactions.
Accounting for premium outlet investments The Committee reviewed managements paper explaining the accounting Value Retail and VIA Outlets treatment for the two investments which is based on the nature of the Groups control over those investments.
For Value Retail VR, the Group is able to The Groups premium outlet interests are through exert significant influence through its VR Board representation and through investments in Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
These the terms of its loan agreements to VR and hence accounts for the investment investments are externally managed and due to the as an associate.
VIA Outlets is accounted for as a joint venture as the terms of complexity of the underlying structures, there is a risk the partnership agreement provide the Group with joint control.
The paper of inaccurate and inconsistent reporting.
explained managements approach to consolidating the financial information received and the complexities and judgements required to produce the information to incorporate into the Group accounts.
The Committee also reviewed the valuations see above and results of the two investments and was satisfied that the investments had been recognised appropriately.
Accounting for the acquisition of the Irish loan The Committee reviewed managements paper explaining the proposed portfolio accounting treatment for the transaction.
For Group accounting purposes, given the control provisions in the joint venture agreement, the acquisition In October 2015, the Group acquired a portfolio of is to be equity-accounted as an investment in a joint venture.
The loans were acquired in a 50:50 joint 31 December 2015 would be based on the Groups share of the net asset value venture with Allianz with the Groups total cost being of the joint venture.
The accounting for this large transaction required consideration of both the Group level and For joint venture accounting purposes, the loans are accounted in accordance joint venture level accounting for incorporation into with IAS39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement being the Group accounts.
initially recognised at fair value, equating to the cost of the acquisition, and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The Valuers provided a valuation of the secured property assets and the Committee was satisfied with the proposed accounting treatment, and in particular that there were no indicators of impairment requiring a full impairment test.
The description of the significant financial judgements above should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report on page 114 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in note 1 to the accounts on pages 124 to 127 HAMMERSON.
COM 81 Audit Committee Report continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Each of these audits confirmed that appropriate controls were in place in these areas.
Recommendations for improvement were The Risk and Controls committee sets the internal audit agreed by management and assigned for implementation.
When programme by reviewing potential audit topics before they are EYs experience of best practice enabled the identification of presented to the Audit Committee for approval.
The Risk and potential enhancements to existing processes or procedures, these Controls committee supports the Audit Committee as part of the were reviewed by the Risk and Controls committee before being Groups risk management strategy and more information on this approved by the Audit Committee.
committee can be found in the Strategic Report on page 62 and on page 105 in the Code compliance section of this Annual Report.
The internal audit programme for 2015 was compiled by reviewing REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS OF THE INTERNAL key risk areas in the Groups risk management framework to AUDIT PROCESS determine which would most benefit from a review.
Proposals were As noted in last years Annual Report, the Committee debated at the November 2014 Risk and Controls committee and it determined to carry out a formal review of the effectiveness was agreed that particular attention in 2015 should be focused on of the internal auditor EY during 2015.
The internal audit areas of change and key business areas.
The Committee then function has been outsourced since 2006 with EY providing approved the internal audit programme.
The Committee was internal audit services to the Group for the past two years.
satisfied that the programme resulted from a thorough review of In the second half of 2015, a detailed questionnaire was the Groups key business activities and addressed a number of issued to members of the Committee, senior management related topical risk areas.
and those other managers involved in the internal audit During the year, the Committee monitored the internal audit procedure.
As part of this review, EY and Deloitte were also process through management updates and reviewing reports asked to provide feedback on the Groups current internal prepared by the internal auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
Questions covered the following areas: During 2015, audits were carried out on: Understanding and experience: The effectiveness of governance, risk management and reporting controls in relation to UK and French development projects: Planning and communications: and The effectiveness of key controls for UK shopping Audit work and reporting.
centre operations: Responses to the questionnaire were collated and reviewed The controls within the new in-house property management at the Risk and Controls committee and at the Audit function in France: Committee.
While the outcome of the review was positive, The effectiveness of key financial controls following the given the increasing scale of the Group, the Committee relocation of head office finance and IT functions to approved a proposal to adopt a new hybrid internal audit Reading: and provision, overseen by a new Risk and Compliance manager.
The new internal audit arrangements will utilise a Activities in relation to the Groups digital engagement activities.
combination of internal and external resource to enhance and monitor the Groups internal audit procedures.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The process for the 2015 Annual Report was enhanced with the establishment of an editorial team made up of members drawn from Group Finance, the Company Secretariat, Corporate Communications and Marketing, all responsible for reviewing the Report.
Regular meetings were held during the preparation and compilation period to ensure balanced reporting and that there were appropriate links between the various sections of the Annual Report.
Extensive verification was carried out to ensure accuracy.
Drafts were reviewed by senior management, followed by reviews by the Audit Committee in both January and February 2016.
This provided an opportunity to challenge the fair, balanced and understandable assessment and test whether there was an appropriate balance throughout the Annual Report.
Following further discussion the Committee and then the Board were able to confirm that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
82 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDERING AUDIT PROCESS APPROACH AND PLAN The Committee recognises the importance of having a high Over recent years there has been a significant change to the calibre external audit.
It therefore assessed the effectiveness of rules regarding the provision of external audit services for listed the external audit process during the year, monitoring Deloittes companies.
In the new regulations, under the transitional fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and its reports on the arrangements, the latest date by which the Company is required conclusions of the arising significant financial judgements.
The to tender and appoint a new external auditor is for the financial Committee received regular feedback from management on the year beginning 1 January 2021. level of support provided by Deloitte and it determined that Deloitte or its predecessor firms have been the Companys Deloitte provides an appropriate level of service.
external auditor since the Company was founded in 1942.
In last In forming its opinion of the independence and objectivity of years Annual Report the Company stated that management and Deloitte the Committee reviewed: the Committee were satisfied with both Deloittes quality of service and their independence and objectivity.
During 2015, the The independence safeguards operating within Deloitte: Committee considered tendering and rotation options in advance Deloittes Audit Transparency Report for the year ended of the required rotation date of 2021.
Following a decision to 31 May 2015: and undertake a tender process in 2016, management presented a The extent of non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
proposed plan which the Committee approved and recommended to the Board.
The Committee recommended that a tender process The Committee has concluded that the external audit was carried should be undertaken in 2016, to align with the current Deloitte out effectively and efficiently with the necessary objectivity and audit partner rotation and strategic priorities of the Group.
The independent challenge in respect of the 2015 financial year and it new appointment would be effective for the 2017 audit.
Having has recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte at complied with the requirement to undertake a tender process for the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
the provision of the external audit, the Companys statement of compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority Order NON-AUDIT SERVICES can be found on page 111.
The Committee recognises the need for objective and independent auditors and how such objectivity might be, or appear to be, AUDIT TENDER PROCESS TIMELINE compromised through the provision of non-audit services.
Details During the Committee meeting in November, key steps in the of the policy on the provision of non-audit services are included in timetable for the audit tender plan were agreed and approved the section of the Annual Report on compliance with the Code on including the appointment of a selection sub-committee of the page 106 and the full policy is available at www.
Audit Committee to lead the process, chaired by Pierre Bouchut.
Details of Deloittes remuneration, including remuneration for non-audit services, are also on page 106.
The key steps in the timetable are set out below.
December 2015 April 2016 THE VIABILITY STATEMENT Meetings with audit firms to determine their The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced a new capabilities and prospective audit partners.
requirement for the Board to consider the period over which it is able to conclude that the Company will remain viable.
In developing the Viability Statement, the May 2016 Committee reviewed with management the Confirmation of participation by audit firms.
appropriateness of the Companys choice of, and reasons Agreement of short list of audit firms by the for, a five-year assessment period.
The Groups current selection sub-committee.
position, future plans and potential impact of risks to the business were reviewed, including the rationale for the Viability Statement assessment period which was based on: June 2016 The Companys five-year planning period: Issue of tender documents and supporting A clear, strategic focus on retail which has traditionally information to the participating firms.
Management been less volatile than other property sectors: meetings and site visits in the UK and France with The geographical diversity of the Groups property prospective firms.
portfolio: August September 2016 Five-year timescales which support major developments: The selection sub-committee to evaluate tender A stable income stream: documents and receive presentations from A strong capital base: and prospective firms.
Recommendation of the new Leases which contain a five-year rent review pattern.
auditor by the sub-committee to the Audit Committee.
Having reviewed and considered the proposed draft Viability Statement, the Committee approved it for October 2016 inclusion in the 2015 Annual Report.
Recommendation for appointment of the new auditor to the Board for approval.
Induction period The Viability Statement, together with further details of commences with successful firm shadowing Deloitte the Groups approach and the Going Concern statement, during 2016 year end process.
appear on page 67 of the Strategic Report.
