Chief Executives Operating Review 2004 was another record year, with strong underlying organic growth at constant exchange rates and excellent performance from recent acquisitions.
Building on this success, Meggitt has been A major contract was received for the supply of Results selected to supply engine mounted VMUs the environmental cooling system for the Boeing Group profit before tax, exceptional items and on the General Electric GEnx engine.
goodwill amortisation increased by 15% to 89.5 As a consequence of continued investment million on turnover up 19% to 479.2 million, Contracts have been signed for the Chinese in engineering resources, 16 new valve leading to a final dividend of 4.80 pence.
These regional jet ARJ21 engine VMU and Interface programme orders in the aerospace market results further reinforce the groups reputation Control Unit.
This positions Meggitt firmly in and 6 programmes in the industrial power for consistent cash generative performance.
the emerging Chinese civil aircraft market and generation market were won in 2004.
It is Acquisitions complements last years award to supply the anticipated that these new programmes will In 2004, acquisitions strengthened Meggitts engine monitoring system on the Russian be worth in excess of 100m over their life.
key capabilities and market position.
Airdynamics also secured orders for fan purchase of the design and manufacturing Initial orders have been received for the products for the V-22 Osprey and Joint Strike division of Dunlop Standard Aerospace Group retrofit of our new advanced engine VMU for Fighter which are expected to be worth in the Dunlop Aerospace for 426.8 million was the Boeing 737 aircraft where there is a order of 24m over the next ten years.
Since then, this business substantial retrofit market in excess of 1,000 has performed well and the integration process Building on its success on the A380 aircraft, aircraft.
The main additional benefit of this is on schedule.
Dunlops wheels, brakes, Safety Systems was selected to provide engine system is to give advanced warning of polymers, and aero-engine related components and landing gear fire protection for the new bearing degradation which can lead to fit closely with Meggitts other businesses.
This will engine shut downs.
have its first flight in 2008 with deliveries Three further acquisitions were completed in In addition, contracts with Airbus have been scheduled for 2009 and is estimated to be December 2004 for 14.3 million.
Wilcoxon received for the development and production valued at 30m over the life of the programme.
Research, whose products range from rugged, of an Advanced Engine Interface and VMU to The flight-lock actuator business acquired low-cost industrial vibration sensors to unique be fitted on CFM-56 powered A340 aircraft.
from Eaton Aerospce in December 2004 has laboratory and test instrumentation, joined This unit also enhances the currently installed already been integrated successfully into the Meggitt Electronics.
Eaton Aerospaces flightproduct by providing further CFMI-developed Safety Systems facility in California, USA.
lock actuator business, which makes door advanced engine algorithms for early detection Deliveries of this product range commenced locking devices for Boeing aircraft, was of No 4 bearing degradation.
The unit will be in January 2005. integrated into Meggitts Aerospace business.
standard fit on new aircraft and be available Further contracts were received from Eclipse Schreiner Canada, which provides air, ground for retrofit onto the existing fleet of over 250 Aviation to provide the engine inlet anti-ice and sea targets for defence training, forms part CFM-56 powered A340 aircraft.
and engine bleed ducting system for the new of Meggitt Defence Systems.
This will further Orders have also been received from the Eclipse 500 jet.
Low rate initial production is strengthen its market position in targetry.
United States Army to provide oil debris expected to commence in the second half of Aerospace monitoring system products for the AH-64A 2006.
This order, together with the already Turnover increased 23% to 339.4 million and AH-64D Apache helicopters.
These fluid announced autopilot order, means that even 2003: 275.5 million.
Operating profit before monitoring products will improve the mission at half of Eclipses projected volumes these exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation effectiveness and availability of the Apache.
contracts are potentially worth in excess of increased by 19% to 77.3 million 2003: 110m over the next ten years.
At constant exchange rates, both The Avionics business continued to win new turnover and operating profit increased by 32%.
orders for secondary flight display systems The polymers business in the USA received for the update of Royal Australian Air Force the prestigious Platinum Source Preferred Meggitts position as a world leader in the field PC-9 trainers and for a wide range of Supplier Award from Northrop Grumman.
of aerospace engine condition monitoring has equipment for the supply of BAE Systems The award criteria included outstanding continued to be enhanced.
It was selected to performance on delivery, quality and cost.
The Engine Monitoring Unit on the Trent 900 supply the threat warning indicators for F-16 The Dunlop Aerospace companies acquired engine for use on the new Airbus A380 aircraft aircraft destined for Poland, which is the first in August 2004 contributed 49.0m to turnover was certified.
This unit is the first of its kind order for this product range.
In addition, it and 10.9m of operating profit before 4.2m and is designed to help optimise engine should receive orders in excess of 35m in the of exceptional operating costs.
In addition, the initial production first half of the year for the second tranche of businesses include Polymers & Composites orders for the electronics monitoring part of Eurofighter aircraft.
Work is the engine mounted Vibration Monitoring Unit underway to integrate these businesses into VMU for the GP7200 Alliance engine, also to Meggitt and in the first half of 2005, Meggitts be used on the Airbus A380, were received.
existing UK polymers business will move to Dunlop facilities.
12 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Silicon dioxide cable Conventional organic cable cannot withstand the intense heat generated by advancing aerospace technologies.
Based on power and signal transmission technology from the military and nuclear sectors, our silicon dioxide cable has the flexibility, low weight and structural integrity to withstand current and future temperature and vibration extremes.
Today, this high speed, high temperature cable is preventing engine wire harness failures on military jets and replacing the organic wiring in the Boeing 737 NGs fire detection systems, enhancing reliability and reducing operating cost.
Extreme temperature range: -271C to 1149C Vibration resistance: 45g on earth and 110g in space Weight: 30 per cent lighter than the norm Strength: survives a concentrated load of 500lbs Life span: 40 years 12 months is the norm Revolutionising information and power transmission.
Chief Executives Operating Review continued During 2004, the Fluid Dynamics businesses In ammunition handling, multiple development In the second half of 2004, Meggitt Electronics were successful in securing a number of and production system contracts were secured completed the development of its manufacturing new orders which included supplying two in 2004.
These included the large calibre facility in Xiamen, China.
It was opened heat exchangers to Pratt & Whitney Canada autoloader for Future Combat Systems, 120mm formally in October and in December, the for the PW610 turbofan engine that powers mortar for the US Army, next generation facility passed its ISO9001-2000 and ISO-14001 the Eclipse very light jet and a heat exchanger 30mm ammunition system for the C130 certification audits after just 7 months in for another PW600 engine family model the gunship, and the ammunition handling system operation.
With the project progressing well, PW615 on the Cessna Mustang.
Other heat for the Stryker light armoured vehicle.
In the closure of the TTI facility in the US Virgin exchanger contracts received were for the thermal cooling systems orders were received Islands is planned to be finalised by the end GEnx engine that will go on the Boeing 787 for environmental control system pods for the of the first half.
Dreamliner and the SM146 engine designed rapid airborne mine detection and clearance Outlook for the Russian regional jet.
These development contracts will lead The markets we operate in continue to to significant production contracts over the The Braking Systems business is a major improve although the effects of the weak next five years in excess of 30m.
workshare partner with Honeywell on the dollar are expected to continue to influence wheels and braking systems for the A380 Countermeasures production activity declined our reported performance in 2005.
The main wheel and brake technical as expected in 2004 but substantial progress was Boeing and Airbus are projecting significant service order testing for the conventional made in the development of the next generation increases in large civil jet deliveries in 2005 wheel and brake was completed during 2004. of systems.
This included a development contract and 2006 compared with the low point of the This clears the way for flight testing on the from the USAF for a compact Reel Out Reel In cycle of 2003 2004 and deliveries of new aircraft in 2005.
In addition, parallel development RORI magazine for fibre optic towed decoys.
aircraft in the business and general aviation work on the use of metal matrix composite The RORI magazine will allow recovery of the segments continue to recover although the material which offers substantial weight benefits expensive towed decoy significantly reducing picture for regional aircraft is muted.
for the wheels is ongoing.
Braking Systems the cost of ownership of these systems.
The market for civil spares and repairs also supplies the wheels, braking system and Electronics continues to grow in line with the increasing landing gear computer for the Eurofighter and Turnover from continuing operations was utilisation of aircraft.
Military equipment sales the announcement of orders for the second 70.9 million 2003: 71.2 million.
Operating are predicted to remain firm in 2005.
The effect tranche of Eurofighter aircraft underpins the profit before exceptional operating costs and of any slow down in future defence expenditure importance of this programme with 30m of goodwill amortisation from continuing on new platforms will be mitigated by Meggitts orders expected in the first half of 2005. operations reduced by 0.3m to 11.1m 2003: strong position on existing platforms and the The benefits from the actions taken to integrate 11.4m.
At constant exchange rates, turnover subsequent demand for spares and repairs.
Dunlop Aerospace into Meggitt will deliver was up 10% and operating profit 16%.
The acquisitions made in the second half of annualised savings of 7m in 2005 and 10m 2004 are performing well and the benefits The continued commitment to new product in 2006.
The cost of achieving these savings is from the opening of our facility in China will introduction has ensured that a number of approximately 9m 4m in 2004 and 5m in start to impact positively in 2005. new programme orders have been secured.
This is in line with our expectations at These include sensors for the NASA space The order book at the end of December 2004 the time of the acquisition.
shuttle, sensors for Lockheed for the Joint is up 9% over December 2003, at constant Defence Systems Strike Fighter aircraft flight testing, and exchange rates when including the 2004 Turnover increased 33% to 68.9 million 2003: cables and retrofit kits for GE industrial power acquisitions in both years.
Operating profit before goodwill products.
Progress also continues in the high The group is therefore on track to deliver amortisation increased by 27% to 12.2m 2003: volume lower price market with a number of another strong year of sustained growth in 9.6m.
At constant exchange rates the turnover successes in the automotive market including 2005 and, as a consequence, the directors increase was 46% driven by acquisitions and orders from Behr Hella, Preh, TRW and Eaton.
are recommending an increase in the final the operating profit increase was 40%.
The acquisition of Wilcoxon will provide a dividend of 8%.
In weapon training systems, Meggitt Defence complementary range of products, and Systems secured two new orders for the enhance further Meggitt Electronics existing Banshee, from Finland and the French Navy.
core competencies in sensor design and The Banshee is now in service with 42 countries applications, opening up synergistic worldwide.
The UK MoD also extended the opportunities in research and development Banshee services contract for a further two and market development.
In addition, the use years until 2007.
The acquisition of Schreiner of Meggitts existing distribution network further underpins Meggitts position in the should further increase Wilcoxons exposure worldwide targets market.
14 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Threat warning indicator TWI Pilots just dont need the extra stress of sensory overload in combat conditions.
Thats why our warning displays are as tough as old boots but sophisticated enough to deliver data on threat lethality, position and direction that is easy to assimilate.
Theyre a far cry from old-fashioned glass cathode ray tubesheavy, power hungry and mostly limited to monochrome symbology.
Like all our displays, it is compact, yet information-rich, as readable using night vision technology as it is in bright sunlight.
Its high resolution brings particular clarity to the complex symbols often customised for operational flexibility and security.
And with low maintenance matching low power consumption, the TWI takes the headache out of logistics and spares managementabout a 40:1 improvement on current figures.
TWI in 100 aircraft, flying 200 hours per year Without Meggitt: 250 hours mean time between failure: 80 unscheduled removals With Meggitt: 10,500 hours mean time between failure: two unscheduled removals Intelligent reading for pilots.
Intelligent design for maintenance crews.
