Banking and Securities Market overview experience.
Again on a positive note, market indications are Banking is the largest information technology market that institutions want to consolidate spending strategically worldwide, with an estimated spend in excess of US$100 billion and streamline relationships around a number of key vendors annually.
Of that, Misys estimates that some US$8.5 billion is products and solutions.
This is good news for Misys which, spent on third-party application software.
Clearly this provides as one of the largest vendors of banking application software an attractive opportunity in a sector that, as yet, has no products in the world, offers long term stability, global scale RESTRUCTURING dominant player.
and reach and a broad product range.
OUR BUSINESS The purpose of the Following a boom in the mid to late 1990s which culminated Sharpening our focus restructuring was to in the Year 2000 transition and the introduction of the euro, The first and second halves of our financial year 2003 04 create a more customerdemand for banking software tailed off dramatically in 2001-03. differed distinctly.
Market conditions and internal restructuring oriented and marketfocused approach.
Conditions began to improve during the second half of the of our business slowed progress in the first half.
In the second The value of this was 2003 04 financial year, with banks beginning to increase IT half we were better positioned and equipped to take advantage demonstrated by the budgets for the first time since the downturn began.
Conditions of opportunities in the sector.
improving business performance as the have varied between sectors: the retail banking systems market The purpose of the restructuring was to create a more year progressed.
has continued to show strong underlying growth, while customer-oriented and market-focused approach for our wholesale and capital markets segments have stabilised.
This involved the creation of three new Around the world our customers and potential customers tell business operations Misys Retail Banking, Misys Wholesale us that their priorities are to keep their organisations tightly Banking and Misys Risk Management and entailed significant focused, and to reduce or contain their IT-related costs, changes to business processes and reporting lines.
The value especially the amounts related to maintenance, interfaces and of this market-facing approach was demonstrated by the internal development staff.
While there are expectations that improving business performance as the year progressed.
In the banks IT budgets will increase by around 4-5% during calendar second half software order intake levels rose for the first time 2004, there are also marked regional differences, with greater since 2001, on a comparable basis.
We also saw a marked activity and interest in emerging markets, especially in China improvement in the level of revenues and orders for our and Southeast Asia.
In retail banking, IT spend is also being professional services such as implementation, consultancy directed towards client access technologies that help to provide and technical support in the second half.
As a result of the banks customers with better service and an enriched customer improving order performance levels, we also saw order backlog growth in both software initial licence fees ILF Source: IDC, 2003 and professional services over the previous year end.
During the year we completed the sale of the majority of our WE SAW A MARKED IMPROVEMENT IN THE LEVEL OF REVENUES AND securities trading and asset management interests, as part of the sharpening of our focus on the faster-growing sectors of ORDERS FOR OUR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES SUCH AS IMPLEMENTATION, the banking application software market.
CONSULTANCY AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT We now have a much stronger market focus within each of our business sectors and have been able to use closer customer engagement to implement systematic product management 1995 Misys acquires ACT Group PLC 7 Banking and Securities continued methods.
We shared with customers our product lifecycle Progress in retail banking road maps and their feedback has been incorporated into our Our market-facing reorganisation has enabled us to increase plans.
These road maps have helped build customer confidence our focus on retail banking, the market segment that has been that we are committed to rolling three year development least affected by IT spending cuts.
Retail banking demands programmes, to ensure that our products keep abreast of the software systems and solutions that enable a multi-dimensional best technology and meet customers evolving business needs relationship with the customer, and take account of such trends as they increasingly seek to consolidate software procurement as the rising numbers of consumer transactions, higher service around a preferred provider portfolio.
expectations, new services and products, as well as the development of internet, telephone and automated teller Approximately 40% of development effort was delivered by our machine networks alongside the branch as channels for highly efficient development centres in Bangalore and Manila.
Misys is creating software products that can be implemented by our professional services operation to provide the specific MISYS WON A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT functionality individual institutions require to complete their own enhanced offering and create distinctive service propositions.
RETAIL BANKING DEALS DURING THE YEAR.
THESE INCLUDED A MAJOR DEAL WITH Innovative wholesale banking developments CC BANK IN GERMANY, CONSUMER FINANCE During the year we launched two new products and significant upgrades for four more.
These included MidasPlus, ARM OF SANTANDER GROUP a new-generation Midas system.
This has been re-engineered MidasPlus to deliver a global processing solution that enables customers MidasPlus is a new-generation to converge multiple operations onto a single hub.
It has been Our strategic plan calls for a significant increase in our footprint the new solution was shipped to 15 customers in 10 countries.
re-engineered to deliver a in retail banking.
We have pursued opportunities to generate global processing solution Customers for MidasPlus include such leading banks as HBOS, that enables customers to additional business in Europe and Southeast Asia to balance OCBC, Banco do Brasil and Bayerische Landesbank in deals converge multiple operations our strongly established regional presence in the Middle East, averaging more than 1.6m in ILF order intake.
The Loan IQ onto a single hub.
Africa and Hong Kong, and the increased effort has already product, which we acquired as part of the IQFS business in borne fruit.
We won a number of significant deals during the January 2004, has performed well and we have extended its year.
These included a major deal with CC Bank in Germany, reach into Europe and Asia.
We also increased the market the consumer finance arm of Santander Group and a new penetration of Crossmar Matching Services, now re-branded client for Misys.
This contract also has a large professional Misys Global Managed Services, the application service provider services element for implementation over the next three years.
acquired in April 2003, by extending its service range.
We also signed a number of large services-only contracts, Towards the end of the year, we announced a strategic including contracts with Fundacion and Bank of Butterfield, partnership with S1, under which Misys will lead the and secured a number of other new client wins.
international roll out of their front-office, multi-channel Misys has ambitious growth aspirations in the retail banking platform solution for wholesale banking customers, which has market.
Our scale, geographic spread and experience of emerging been hugely successful in the United States, to other markets.
markets will stand us in good stead as we aim to become the leading international vendor of retail banking systems.
8 2004 Misys acquires IQ Financial Systems Summit successful new product development asset management community, though we now intend to While capital markets have been a challenging software extend its use to enhance the compliance capabilities of other market since the economic downturn in 2001, Summit, our selected Misys banking solutions.
lead product in this arena, has been bucking the trend.
At the end of the year we launched Summit FT.
This uses the latest MISYS IS WELL PLACED TO CAPITALISE ON web-based technologies to deliver all Summits treasury and THE NEW OPPORTUNITIES AND ANTICIPATED capital markets modules within a user-friendly and customisable GROWTH IN THE BANKING SOFTWARE MARKET.
It follows our decision three years ago to make INDUSTRY TRENDS WILL TEND TO FAVOUR significant investment in the product range and migrate the technology to.
The three-year product LARGER, BETTER ESTABLISHED GLOBAL development process has also resulted in broader instrument OPERATORS SUCH AS MISYS coverage, spanning exotic instruments, including credit derivatives, to treasuries, pioneering functionality and advanced trading capabilities.
This culminated in the latest release of the Looking forward best of breed MUST tool which helps traders create, process By re-energising and refreshing our product portfolio across all and analyse complex products and structured trades.
During core sectors, via product development, acquisition and strategic the year, we signed valuable Summit contracts with banks in partnering arrangements, we are determined to ensure our Germany, China, Japan, South Korea and the United States.
products compete effectively with the latest and best in their Risk management opportunities class.
An independent survey of international banks by Morgan The Basel II Accord is largely driving the opportunity in risk Stanley IBS found that our customer base was stable: that management.
This will require banks to adopt an enterprisecustomers rated our products above competitors products: wide approach to all kinds of risk, and has led to a wideand that, significantly, more banks expected to consider Misys ranging review of banks IT infrastructures.
While there has products for future requirements than those of any other vendor.
been uncertainty around the timing and content of the Misys is now well placed to capitalise on the new opportunities regulatory change, the need to measure risk and optimise value and anticipated growth in the banking software market.
is implicit and we have continued to invest in our Risk Vision Industry trends will tend to favour larger, better established product to meet these requirements.
In January 2004 we global operators such as Misys that can demonstrate a track expanded development operations to Bangalore, where our record of success dating back a decade and more, as well as development resources have significantly increased.
the financial strength to support a commitment to future Also Eagleye, another early-stage technology investment, SUMMIT FT generations of software and systems through various product delivered its new solution to its first customer.
Eagleye is a This uses the latest web-based management and technology cycles.
high-performance rules-based compliance engine developed technologies to deliver all Summits modules within a user-friendly using the latest.
Its initial focus has been on desktop.
delivering preand post-trade functionality for the buy-side 1997 Misys acquires Summit Inc. 9 N E I T A P A T A D T N E I T A P P A A T T A I E D N Healthcare PHYSICIANS OFFICE HOSPITAL We are the leading Misys is one of the vendor of electronic industry's leaders in medical records, practice computer-based patient management systems and records with thousands of electronic connectivity to physician users: also a physicians' practices leader in departmental of all sizes.
LONG TERM CARE HOME CARE This care setting which We are a leader in includes nursing homes home care, hospice is an area of opportunity and private duty with for Misys.
significant licence growth in the past year.
T T N D E A I T T A A P A T A D T annually over the same period.
Such systems, used by OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS ENABLE 92,000 PHYSICIANS, 1,250 HOSPITALS approximately 10% of US clinicians, process and store patients AND 600 HOME CARE AGENCIES TO CONCENTRATE ON THE WORK THAT notes and history, with details of tests ordered, their results and any procedures, referrals or prescriptions.
Computerising MATTERS LOOKING AFTER PATIENTS patients medical records has been identified as an essential step in proving sound clinical practice and evaluating health outcomes.
The US Federal Government is keen to see all medical records stored online by 2015 and there is a similar focus on electronic health records in both Canada and the United Kingdom.
Once healthcare providers have designed clinical workflows around a specific electronic health record tool, it is likely they will be reluctant to change applications.
In addition, with so much at stake, caregivers are likely to choose large national or international companies over smaller regional Market overview players in order to protect their software investments long term.
The cost of healthcare in the United States is soaring and information technology is seen as being an integral part Strong business in growth sectors of the cure.
Improving the quality of care while reducing There are exciting opportunities for Misys Healthcare Systems administrative costs, which account for some 40% of total to build on its position in high growth target markets and healthcare spending, are urgent priorities for the US Federal maintain its strong performance.
Misys Healthcare Systems is a Government, employer groups and insurance companies.
The major presence within highly fragmented markets, a top five consensus view is that the current trend for healthcare costs to supplier, with significant potential to gain further share in all PATIENT RECORDS rise in double digits for the fifth consecutive year cannot be four venues of care hospitals, physicians offices, the patients sustained.
Projections suggest that healthcare could absorb home and long term care facilities.
Our software products around 20% of gross domestic product by 2013 unless the enable 92,000 physicians, 1,250 hospitals and 600 home care ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS industry reins back the inflationary pressures inherent in an agencies to concentrate on the work that matters looking Computerising patients ageing population, a shortage of medical professionals, rising after patients.
medical records has been insurance premiums and increasingly costly medical identified as an essential step During the year, we made good progress in implementing a technologies and prescription drugs.
in proving sound clinical number of initiatives.
We have strengthened our management, practice and evaluating health More and better information technology systems are widely with over 60% of our senior team taking on new or expanded outcomes.
The US Federal Government is keen to see regarded as essential in bringing American healthcare spending responsibilities.
Additional resources have gone into giving our all medical records stored under control and deriving better value for expenditure.
There sales force the marketing and branding support to allow us to online by 2015. is considerable pressure on the industry to invest in electronic compete effectively.
We are increasingly presenting ourselves to health records for both cost containment and clinical purposes.
the healthcare market as an integrated proposition to take full Growth in the adoption of electronic medical records in advantage of our scope and scale.
We have continued to invest physicians offices is forecast at over 25% annually until 2007, heavily in research and development and product management with corresponding computer-based patient record usage in the to take advantage of market opportunities and demand.
acute hospital sector set to rise at an average of over 15% 1997 Misys enters US healthcare market by acquiring Medic Computer Systems Inc. 11 Healthcare continued Hospitals and health systems Key to the success of Misys CPR will be our work on integrating In the hospital venue, our market research showed we needed it with our other products and we have made excellent a product around which to build a suite of enterprise-class progress to date.
We launched Misys Optimum, our clinical systems.
In August 2003, we purchased a marketcomprehensive suite of solutions and web-based technologies leading computer-based patient record CPR system.
The that enables caregivers to use and share patients complete product is complementary to our established radiology and information across all care settings, from the home to the laboratory systems, as well as our pharmacy system.
The hospital to the physicians office.
During 2005 we will launch product was re-branded Misys CPR and put us on the path of a major module within Misys Optimum that will provide a success in servicing the rapidly increasing demand for clinical desktop interface to the data from all venues of care.
The physicians office Despite relatively few hospitals having purchased computerThe physicians office market continued to see electronic based patient record systems, the market is growing quickly medical record systems sales setting the pace, with outstanding and in just 10 months Misys CPR has enjoyed considerable growth in order intake year on year.
We won several sizeable success.
It was ranked second in its field by clinical information contracts with our Misys Vision product, a practice management technology professionals at TEPR Towards an Electronic Patient system for practices with over 25 physicians, towards the year Record, the national healthcare event, in May 2004.
We won end, including our largest electronic medical records deal yet two very large hospital contracts: our first computer-based with Genesys PHO in Michigan.
patient record electronic medical record contract, with POH Given the scale of the opportunity, we are targeting similar Medical Center in Michigan: and Pascack Valley Hospital, New increases in electronic medical records EMR order intake Jersey, committed to purchasing a computer-based patient for 2004 05 and are accelerating incremental investment MISYS OPTIMUM record laboratory system suite.
These valuable deals illustrate expenditure of around 5m over the two financial years We launched Misys Optimum, the importance of enhancing further our reputation for quality 2004-06 on further EMR product enhancements to support our our comprehensive suite of products and outstanding service at hospital management solutions and web-based ambitions.
The upgrades include substantial improvements in levels.
In such situations, where the customers investment is technologies that enables features and functionality, migration to a new database engine caregivers to use and share financially substantial, the purchasing decision is increasingly and furthering the interoperability of Misys EMR.
patients complete information centralised across integrated networks of care covering across all care settings, from specialist departments, laboratories and satellite organisations Our Misys Tiger practice management system, which is the home to the hospital to the physicians office.
that include physicians practices and home care agencies.
designed for smaller practices with between two and 25 physicians and no specialist IT staff, continues to be a market We have seen a shift away from individual departmental leader, with around 100 such systems sold and installed each products and increasing interest in computer-based patient month.
We are making further research and development record products.
While this resulted in lower orders for our investment in the product to ensure the technology is kept laboratory and radiology systems in the first six months of the up to date.
year, we did see improvement in the second half as a result of increased focus on the sales effort.
12 1998 Misys establishes development and service centre in Bangalore In the patients home Implementing the first phase of the Health Insurance Portability Misys Homecare, from a relatively small base, continued to and Accountability Act HIPAA which mandated the use of make superb progress, with initial licence fee order intake EDI systems for originating and processing payments dented growing strongly.
We signed large deals with a number of our reputation somewhat for outstanding customer service.
major home care agencies, including Catholic Healthcare West Originally scheduled to take effect in October 2003, its California, St Vincents Medical Center New York, Montefiore implementation was deferred due to general industry New York and New England Home Care Connecticut.
As a large source of insurance claims, Misys came have established a strong track record in this growing market under pressure from many payers and partners to be among and are recognised as one of the top companies in the sector.
the first operators to convert to HIPAA-compliant data transfers.
Our performance in this market is aided by the industry trend As a result, we experienced a surge of calls to our help desks to discharge patients from hospital sooner with increased that required us to divert internal resources.
With much of provision of nursing care in the patients home.
With the HIPAA now behind us, customer service standards are back to HOME CARE US population profile now ageing and requiring more their normal high levels and we have succeeded in reaching We have established a strong track assistance for chronic and geriatric conditions, the home, over 90% HIPAA-compliance for the millions of transactions record in this growing market and long term care and hospice environments are increasingly that pass through M. Transaction Services each year.
are recognised as one of the top companies in the sector.
We expect continued growth in our remittance processing Misys Homecare fulfils administrative, clinical and business, and see signs of increasing demand for our newer communications needs, allowing the caregiver to download products such as laboratory orders results and insurance appointment schedules and patient notes and upload records eligibility checks.
of each home visit and billing information between the office Looking ahead and a laptop handheld computer.
Electronic and computer-based medical and patient records are expected to bring about major changes in the US healthcare ONE-TIME DATA ENTRY IS A HUGE STEP sector.
One-time data entry is a huge step forward in reducing FORWARD IN REDUCING POTENTIAL FOR potential for error in patient care.
Once clinical information has been appropriately captured and codified, we believe there will ERROR IN PATIENT CARE be substantial demand to share this information in a secure fashion among physicians and caregivers across the different venues of care.
By making it simpler for clinicians to use Transaction services technology to share information, demonstrate quality processes Our Texas-based clearing house, M. Transaction Services, and, ultimately, achieve better medical outcomes, we can help which processes bills and claims on behalf of 75,000 physicians, caregivers achieve better care at a reduced cost the main experienced a slower rate of growth in 2003 04 than in concern of many healthcare stakeholders.
In part this was due to the very high level of With strong and growing presences in the physician and market penetration already achieved among physicians using hospital systems sectors, and an impressive advance in home our practice management systems.
Another contributing factor care, Misys Healthcare Systems is ready to capitalise on the was the move by some physicians offices to reduce the growth in its markets and seize the opportunity to play number of statements sent out per patient, which resulted its part in the national drive towards clinical automation.
in lower transaction volumes for us.
2002 Medic Sunquest HCIS become Misys Healthcare Systems 13 Financial services GENERAL INSURANCE MFS USERS Over 20,000 users across MISYS FINANCIAL 2,100 intermediary sites.
SYSTEMS MFS is the UK and Irelands leading supplier of IT solutions to general insurance intermediaries transacting commercial and personal lines insurance.
COUNTRYWIDE MEMBERS Around 850 intermediaries MISYS INSURANCE who between them MANAGEMENT control 2.9bn of insurance MIM owns the UKs largest premium.
network of insurance intermediaries Countrywide.
Members using MFS systems participate in the network to benefit from enhanced service levels from partner insurers, exclusive access to products and better commission.
ACT INSURANCE SYSTEMS ACT provides systems to general insurance companies.
INSURER Providing general insurance and life and pensions products.
SESAME INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVISERS Sesame is the UKs largest provider of support services to more than Sesame provides a full 6,500 IFAs and intermediaries.
regulatory support service The in-depth financial research, to IFAs as part of its regulatory, technology and training network offering, along with tailored support support that IFAs receive from Sesame enables them to make packages for directly informed decisions when advising regulated IFAs.
on financial solutions for their clients.
Sesame also uses its size and scale in the market enabling its IFA customers to benefit from improved service levels, enhanced commission terms from product providers and discounted professional indemnity insurance.
MISYS GENERAL INSURANCE IS WELL POSITIONED FOR LONG TERM SUCCESS.
IT PROVIDES THE SECURITY, RELIABILITY AND SERVICE ITS CUSTOMERS REQUIRE AND FUNDS INNOVATIVE INVESTMENT TO PROTECT AND DEVELOP MARKET LEADERSHIP MISYS GENERAL INSURANCE The business performed strongly during the year with increased Market overview levels of order intake and a record level of operating profit.
In Misys General Insurance MGI operates in both the United MFS we achieved strong order intake as a result of continued Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
The UKs general investment in product development and system functionality.
insurance market is estimated to total some 38 billion of gross The current move towards electronic transmission methodology written premium Republic of Ireland 2bn annually, split in commercial insurance has made product development virtually 50:50 between personal and commercial insurance.
critically important in the battle for market share.
The majority Of this gross written premium, some 60% is distributed by of commercial insurance, especially for small and medium size intermediaries, including around 85% of commercial insurance.
enterprises, lends itself to standardised data capture and The UK market for intermediary systems is generally stable and electronic integration with insurer systems.
Misys Financial records steady if unspectacular growth.
Customer loyalty is high Systems has developed OASys Commercial, a Microsoft-based CUSTOMER but the race is currently underway to shift large numbers of module, which operates within both of MFS insurance routine commercial insurance transactions from manual to intermediary system platforms.
Developed with leading insurers integrated electronic transmission methods.
to be compatible with their own web portal iMarket development protocols and data transfer standards, OASys Business development Commercial will be central to the way insurance intermediaries Misys General Insurance is the clear market leader in the transact their commercial insurance going forward.
United Kingdom for general insurance intermediary systems and related services.
Misys General Insurance comprises three Another major area of product innovation during the year businesses.
Misys Financial Systems MFS provides hardware, was the development and roll out of electronic point of sale OASYS COMMERCIAL software and services to general insurance companies and to data capture and full cycle connectivity between insurance OASys Commercial has been over 2,100 intermediary sites with more than 20,000 users.
intermediaries and finance houses to support the developed with leading Misys Insurance Management MIM is a voluntary affiliation intermediaries use of Premium Finance.
We have achieved insurers to either be linked of around 850 insurance intermediaries using Misys systems considerable success in driving take-up and growing direct to their own systems or via the iMarket web portal.
who participate in the network Countrywide to obtain volumes with this product, which generates transaction It will be central to the way exclusive access to products, better terms on commission and charges for Misys.
intermediaries transact their enhanced service levels from partnering insurers.
ACT Insurance commercial insurance A further significant success was the introduction of an going forward.
Systems provides systems to general insurance companies.
additional module to help intermediaries manage the customer communications, record-keeping and reporting requirements 1992 Misys acquires its first IFA network Countrywide 15 Financial services continued that will come into force with Financial Services Authority FSA The FSAs plans for the depolarisation of the marketing of regulation of the general insurance market from January 2005. investment products now expected to be introduced in January 2005 will expand the market for support services to The Countrywide network continues to attract new members, IFAs.
While competitors such as banks may be strengthened by with the gross written premium controlled by Countrywide being able to deliver more product choice, Sesame remains members increasing to 2.9 billion.
Misys Insurance confident that the independent advice channel will remain Management continues to expand its relationships with the UKs leading channel for financial services.
strategic insurer partners in order to enhance the range of products and services available to its members.
The ageing population, increasing affluence and the consequent need for pension provision, life assurance and Misys General Insurance is well positioned for long term similar products are also positive for long term demand.
It is large enough to provide the security, reliability and service its customers require, and to fund the innovative Business prospects investment needed to protect and develop market leadership Without strong growth in the equity markets to stimulate SESAME NETWORK with high performance systems, additional functionality, wide interest in life insurance, pensions, savings and investments, Sesame runs the UKs largest product availability and exemplary service standards.
Sesames customer base of IFAs has seen activity levels remain network of independent financial advisers.
Sesame takes constant, in line with the overall market.
However, the number SESAME on regulatory responsibility for of Registered Individuals within the Sesame Network has these members and uses its Market overview stabilised, following two years of decline, and average size and scale to help them Conditions in the market for services to independent financial benefit from improved service productivity is showing signs of picking up.
Ending the advisers IFAs have been difficult owing to a combination of levels, enhanced commission polarised choice financial advisers must make between covering terms from product providers weak demand for investment products, lack of regulatory clarity the whole market or representing a single provider of products and discounted professional and rising costs of professional indemnity cover.
In terms of and services, will create a significant growth opportunity.
The consumer demand, claims of product mis-selling, low interest, network route continues to inflation and annuity rates as well as disappointing investment A strong brand for a major opportunity be popular with advisers, by helping to build the capital returns, have meant consumers remained wary of entering In the meantime, Sesame has seized the opportunity to create value of their firms through long term financial commitments, with the exception of a strong brand with a new identity and a more vigorous the writing of good quality property purchases.
approach to marketing and public relations.
as a single entity and brand in August 2003 has been good A number of factors are, however, driving market growth and for the business and is proving popular in the marketplace.
the IFA market has recently shown some signs of improvement.
The FSA is bringing two significant product groups into The brands strength and clarity is also helping extend Sesames regulation: mortgages on 31 October 2004 and general appeal to new advisers such as independent mortgage insurance on 14 January 2005.
Many IFAs selling those intermediaries, who will come under the regulation of the products will be facing regulation for the first time.
This FSA in October 2004, and to general insurance intermediaries continues a trend of ever-increasing financial market regulation.
ahead of the FSA regulation in January 2005.
There is While some IFAs have left the market and some will still do so, considerable overlap across these markets, as independent statistical information seems to indicate that the exodus may financial advisers generally want to provide their customers be over and numbers levelling off.
We are encouraged that, as at 1 July 2004, over 4,000 advisers including over 80% of existing 16 2003 Misys unveils blueprint for future of IFA business and opens Sesame members and 500 new mortgageand general insurance-only but does not offer risk transfer, regulatory based, compliance members have sought authorisation through Sesame to be services.
Sesame Directs customer base has expanded from able to advise on mortgages and general insurance, well before 1,000 to 1,500 members in the last 12 months and we expect the deadline.
We are optimistic that Sesame is well positioned the growth to continue.
to gain further members from among the undecided, both The publication of Sesames financial jargon buster The Naked within the existing base and the market as a whole.
Adviser marked the first phase of a strategy to raise consumer awareness of the Sesame brand.
Sesame is leveraging its WE ARE ACTIVELY DEVELOPING A BALANCED wealth of research and industry experience to encourage MULTI-TIE BUSINESS PROPOSITION THAT WILL consumers to seek out Sesame members as a source of quality financial advice.
ALLOW SESAME NETWORK MEMBERS TO OFFER CONSUMERS AN ATTRACTIVE RANGE Increasing member productivity OF CHOICES WITHIN THE LIFE INSURANCE While the changes in the regulatory regime will enlarge our target market, we are determined to help all our members raise AND PENSIONS MARKET productivity and be more successful through an increased investment in their training and development needs via Sesame Learning.
Ours is almost certainly the largest such programme A year of investment in the United Kingdom already, with some 3,000 participants The thrust of 2003 04 was strengthening the relationship annually.
Our training is now strong both on technical with Sesames existing customer base, preparing to enter new knowledge such as compliance and on soft skills sales, markets and constructing propositions that are attractive to new marketing, client segmentation and management that will communities.
At the time of launching the Sesame brand we further enhance the advice proposition to the end consumer.
also set out to ensure that Sesame would provide the most We also launched our business cube: eight CDs comprising a compelling competitive offer in the market for services to IFAs.
general business skills training package aimed at helping small THE NAKED ADVISER We improved the value of our customer proposition by reducing and medium-sized IFAs manage their businesses more effectively.
The publication of Sesames our retention on commission and negotiating better professional financial jargon buster The Another area where we have upgraded our ability to serve indemnity cover at lower cost.
We are now developing a Naked Adviser marked the customers is in helping them make the transition to electronic first phase of a strategy to balanced multi-tie business proposition that will allow Sesame raise consumer awareness of technology.
Version 3.1 of Sesame Office formerly mi-solution, network members to offer consumers an attractive range of the Sesame brand.
Sesame is which automates the client profiling and correspondence choices within the life insurance and pensions market.
In the leveraging its wealth of aspects of compliance, was released in May 2004 to its research and industry mortgage, mortgage protection and general insurance sectors experience to encourage installed base of 1,200 users and we plan to increase this we offer member firms a choice between accessing every consumers to seek out Sesame to 2,000 users in the coming year.
providers products or a more focused approach of products members as a source of quality financial advice.
exclusively from a selected provider panel.
Take up so far of all new services and e-business applications has beaten our forecasts.
We have been building our total Over the last two years we have been developing Sesame Direct offering to take advantage of the new opportunities in the as a service network for firms that are directly regulated by the market.
This represents an investment in the future of the FSA.
Sesame Direct offers such independent financial advisers business which we firmly believe is in shareholders interests.
access to research, rate quotations, technology and training 1997 Misys Charitable Foundation formed 17
