Review of Support Services operations REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Support Services has had a good year and has made excellent progress.
We are pleased with the way this is moving forward and are excited about its future growth.
Business Services has performed above expectations this year continuing, not only to secure new contracts but, more importantly, to retain existing contracts, which include Merrill Lynch, Network Rail and The London Stock Exchange.
Working in close partnership with other MITIE companies, Business Services was able to branch out from its traditional client base.
It was awarded the mail services contract at Rolls-Royce across the UK and the document and business support services contract for MCI in Reading and London.
Both contracts are delivered within a bundled service offering with other participating MITIE companies.
It was also very successful in expanding its portfolio of clients in the City of London with the addition of two large reprographics services contracts at the Financial Services Authority and ABN Amro.
Catering has retained and expanded its contract with the Ministry of Defence for the Gloucestershire and Cotswold district.
It is now a multi-activity contract and supports in excess of 5,000 service and civilian personnel.
The contract encompasses a package of domestic services ranging from hotel services, catering and cleaning to laundry and pest control.
Bookham Technology awarded us a long-term contract to provide a broad range of catering-led support services at its three UK locations in Towcester, Abingdon and Paignton.
The new contract encompasses a package of domestic services including catering, vending, reception, security, cleaning, mail-room and reprographics.
In support of this diverse contract, we have brought together the individual specialist MITIE companies to deliver each service line.
This provides the clients with one point of contact at each location.
Since the year-end, we have started MITIE Catering Services London Ltd, which will focus on providing quality commercial catering services in the Capital.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 07 Cleaning has retained a number of important contracts REVIEW OF OPERATIONS during the year, as well as winning several prestigious new contracts across the country.
It was successful in being reawarded the Palaces of Westminster for a second term and has also secured the new Scottish Parliament, which will start later this year.
Other new contract awards include the headquarters of Clifford Chance at Canary Wharf, Nissan in Sunderland and a national contract with Centrica.
The niche business strategy is developing satisfactorily.
Our retail cleaning business has won contracts with Marks & Spencer, John Lewis and Boots and has been awarded a significant addition to the existing contract with Tesco.
The existing business within environmental management, food hygiene, healthcare and transport is being developed.
Since the year-end we have started MITIE Transport Services Ltd.
The quality of Cleaning was publicly recognised with the receipt of two major awards: a Kimberley Clark Golden Service Award for the best-cleaned premises in the education sector for our work at South Downs College in Hampshire, and a Green Apple Environmental Award for our work at HBOS in Aylesbury.
Engineering Maintenance continues to develop, providing services to our clients who benefit from the high levels of management and engineering expertise within this business.
Due to the increasingly sophisticated technical and commercial demands of our clients, Engineering Maintenance has taken the lead role in bundling services on contracts such as MCI, Nokia, Dell and Microsoft.
We have conducted best value audits and successfully extended contracts with Alliance & Leicester and Rampton Hospital Nottinghamshire Healthcare Trust.
We have negotiated and extended our contracts with The Trafford Shopping Centre, Tesco and the Railway Technical Centre Business Park in Derby, where we have been the preferred service provider for over 14 years.
We have expanded our client base with new contracts at the Bullring Shopping Centre in Birmingham, London County Courts, University of London, National Blood Service, Nissan in Sunderland, Merseycare NHS Trust and Ashworth Manchester Airport Hospital and Newsquest in Scotland.
The window cleaning contract at Manchester Airport requires a permanent site team to keep the glass pristine.
The wide range of buildings means that we have to use a variety of ways to access the glass surfaces, including cradles, ladders, tuckerpoles and even abseiling.
Working together across disciplines 08 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 We have increased our existing portfolio of Ministry of Security has grown significantly during the year, principally Defence airbases, securing new contracts at RAF Cosford, as a result of the acquisition of Trident Safeguards Ltd in July RAF Cottesmore and RAF Wittering.
2003 and the security operations of Executive Holdings Ltd in November 2003.
Our security business is now ranked in Engineering Maintenance has continued to lead our the top ten security companies nationally and in the top bundled services contract with Rolls-Royce.
The contract is five in the London marketplace.
The year also saw the award continually delivering a pioneering approach to innovation of two significant new security contracts for Nissan and and partnering.
OTTO UK and the continued provision of security at RollsLandscape has made good progress, including the Royce as part of the overall MITIE services contract.
formation of a new company in the North of England.
We The strategy for the year ahead is to further develop MITIE secured a national contract with Annington Homes, Security as a security solutions provider.
In order to achieve working together with MITIE Scotgate Ltd. Landscape was this we will need to enhance the technology element of our also awarded contracts with three NHS Trusts and BOC in security service and make additional strategic acquisitions.
Windlesham, as well as with Staffordshire Police Authority It is also anticipated that there will be start-ups in key and North Tyneside Council, where we have a contract to locations to enhance service delivery on a national basis.
Managed Services has had an excellent year.
We successfully mobilised and started contracts for the National Probation Service in the North and West of England.
Our contract with Land Securities Trillium was expanded to include the Employment Services buildings.
This enlarged contract has been extended until 2018.
Our relationship with Land Securities has developed with full service contracts on their Landflex sites in London.
The facilities contract for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister was awarded in March 2004.
Pest Control commenced with the acquisition of Eagle Pest Control Services UK Ltd in July 2003.
This gave MITIE a presence in a market that had been a strategic target for many years.
The integration of Eagle has gone smoothly and the business is well placed for future growth.
Contracts have been secured with T-mobile and Gate Gourmet.
Our contract with the Royal Mail has been expanded and now includes half of its UK sites.
Progress has been made with an increase in regional clients and niche market contracts.
Pest control is now an integral part of our service range and is a valuable addition to our bundled services offering.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 09 Review of Building Services operations Property Services, which had a slow start to the year, has Building Services have found trading conditions shown improvement in the second half of the year, winning challenging this year.
The turnover levels have been high a steady flow of contracts and continuing to develop its but market sector changes have resulted in margin national service capability with new branches in Stevenage, pressures.
There are encouraging signs and order books are Basingstoke, Middlesbrough and Nuneaton.
high but, in the present climate of deferred start dates, it is Contracts were secured from Britannia Building Society, taking longer than anticipated for these to result in Brent ALMO, Homebase, The Home Office and Royal Mail.
The refurbishment and fit-out capability of the discipline Engineering Services has increased its focus on public continues to develop, with contracts successfully completed sector procurement and collaborative working.
This has at the BBC, Arcadia and The City of Westminster.
resulted in major opportunities in defence, education and We have entered partnering contracts with Grampian healthcare, as well as involvement in the Job Centre Plus Housing, Fife Special Housing, Homezone Housing and Framework.
These help underpin Strategic positioning of new businesses in the social security of earnings and employment opportunities for our housing, utilities infrastructure and process sectors has people in the longer term.
strengthened our Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Generation, our business that hires and sells scaffolding Services offering.
The national expansion of these and access equipment, has continued to trade satisfactorily.
businesses will provide further growth potential.
It has opened a new branch in Northampton as planned The public sector provided opportunities to work for PFI and relocated its branch in the East of Scotland from Rosyth consortia on schools projects in North Tyneside, to Broxburn, west of Edinburgh city centre.
Northampton and Ealing, as well as inclusion in the Ministry of Defence Prime contract for the South West region.
Other notable contracts were secured for University College London, Oxford, Bristol, Cardiff and Birmingham universities, Crosshouse Hospital in Glasgow and St Georges Hall in Liverpool.
In the private sector, projects completed for clients included those for the Royal Automobile Club, Woolworths and GlaxoSmithKline.
MITIE Engineering Services has been part of the integrated project team on the first demonstration project for the Strategic Forum at the AA Training Academy in Leicester.
The indications of recovery have continued and, although not all the work was completed during this financial year, it has resulted in a healthy order book for next year.
Two of our new businesses, MITIE Engineering Projects Ltd and MITIE Scotgate Ltd, have done particularly well in the social housing and utilities process sectors.
BBC We completed this prestigious project at the BBC for Land Securities Trillium.
These rooms are reserved for the superstars who visit and record at the White City Television Centre.
The dressing room fit out utilises contemporary finishes including back-painted glass walls, American black walnut veneers and natural stone.
We have also refurbished the greenroom.
Working together for a brighter future 10 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Quality REVIEW OF OPERATIONS The quality of our services enables MITIE's customers to achieve their business goals.
This year our Chairmans Quality Award is based on Excellence in Customer Service.
Customer retention and our ability to provide additional services to our existing client base are two of our major themes this year.
This award was launched in 1993 at a time when MITIE was working towards achieving BS 5750 accreditation.
However, David Telling considered that this was only the start of a drive for continuous improvement in quality and hence he launched The Chairmans Quality Award scheme.
These Awards are presented at the Annual General Meeting.
We have received recognition from the European Quality Foundation for our commitment to excellence across the Group.
This commitment will help to maintain our success in the future.
Conclusion I would like to thank my Executive Team for their support during the year and to congratulate all of our employees for their efforts in achieving such an excellent set of results.
We have made good progress in the year.
Our markets are always demanding but they offer considerable opportunity.
MITIE people are focused on providing flexible, quality services to our customers.
I am confident that through our determination to work together for our customers we will achieve our goals and ensure a bright future.
Ian R Stewart CHIEF EXECUTIVE MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 11
