Operational Review Aim Hire have been merged into our East Anglian business and Daman Three Year Strategy for Growth currently remains a stand-alone business.
Excluding the effects of these In July 2003, we announced a new three year Strategy for Growth based acquisitions, fleet growth for the year was just over 3%.
on achieving the following targets by April 2006: The new financial year has started well with fleet growth in the first two Fleet size of 60,000 in the UK and 18,000 in Spain: months, all from existing locations, being in line with our plan for the Network of 100 locations in the UK and 20 in Spain: year ahead.
100% ownership of Fualsa: An established portfolio of non-rental products.
HIRE RATES Through the successful implementation of the plan we are seeking to Once again hire rates have remained relatively stable over the year, in part achieve annual double-digit earnings per share growth.
An increase in as a result of our decision not to discount aggressively to match quotes earnings per share of 22.9% in the year under review represents a good start.
from contract hire companies last summer.
As we outlined last July, our three year Strategy for Growth does not Review of Current Year envisage any material improvement in hire rates, with increased The Interim Statement in January detailed the challenging trading profitability being driven in the main by growth in the fleet and cost conditions experienced in the first half of the financial year as a result of efficiencies.
short term competitor pricing pressure.
As a consequence management Whilst low inflation and low interest rates create an environment where the took a prudent approach to the purchase of new vehicles and the opening opportunities to increase prices are limited, they do, of course, also impact of new locations with the result that fleet growth was limited.
Despite positively on our costs and margins.
However, if interest rates increase, these conditions, pre-tax profits and earnings per share for the six months it may be possible to improve our hire rates but it is more likely that we to 31 October 2003 saw good improvements due to tight cost control and can achieve additional fleet growth on the back of competitors and, in increased operational efficiency.
particular, contract hire companies being forced to increase their prices.
The second half of the year has been much more positive, with growth in both the network and the fleet being more in line with our expectations.
UTILISATION Utilisation, which averaged just over 89% for the year, remains the key DEPOT NETWORK management tool within the business.
We currently operate from 36 primary and 39 branch locations.
We have The overall percentage masks a variation between utilisation in established opened new locations in Aldershot, Crawley, Droitwich, Glasgow and Newport i. e. greater than two years old and new i. e. less than two years old during the financial year and Wakefield since the year-end.
All of these locations of 89.3% and 85.3% respectively.
locations are branches operating as satellites of existing hire companies.
Consequently there remains an opportunity to improve utilisation as the We continue to look at consolidating businesses where we feel this will network matures.
lead to efficiencies without detracting from customer choice and service.
During the year our businesses in Plymouth and Bristol were merged to USED VEHICLE SALES trade under the new style Bristol & West Vehicle Hire Limited.
The used vehicle market had another relatively stable year, enabling us to Of the 75 sites in the Group, 18 have been open for less than two years continue to achieve profits from this area of our business throughout the and, in our terms, are not yet mature, thereby offering greater growth year.
The average profit per vehicle was at a similar level to that of the prior potential than for more mature locations.
We will continue to expand the year.
network through greenfield sites in the main, satellites and, where We sold 18,700 units, up from 18,000 the previous year.
The opening of appropriate, selective acquisitions.
our remarketing centre in Carnaby near Bridlington in November 2003 expanded our channels to market which now cover the full spectrum of VEHICLE FLEET trade, semi-retail and retail.
We are looking to open a further remarketing Despite a difficult first half to the financial year, the fleet grew by 2,400 centre in the West Midlands in the medium term.
In addition to our vehicles in the year to close at 47,400 vehicles 2003 45,000 vehicles.
Carnaby remarketing centre we sell vehicles from three other dedicated In what is traditionally for us a quieter second half, fleet growth was sales locations in the UK Darlington, Snodland in Kent and Banbury, 1,700 vehicles.
as well as direct from selected hire locations.
Two small acquisitions were made towards the end of the financial year Last year saw 6% of our disposals go through a refurbishment process and contributed 1,000 vehicles to the increase in fleet size.
In March we into the semi-retail or retail channel: our aim remains to increase this bought the assets of Aim Hire Limited based in Peterborough and on percentage over the next couple of years to around 15% of the Groups UK 30 April we purchased the equity of F Herriman & Sons Limited trading disposals.
as Daman Vehicle Rental based in Runcorn in Cheshire.
The assets of 04 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 NORTHGATE VEHICLE SOLUTIONS The third leg of our Strategy for Growth is based on growing our non-rental but vehicle-related products through a new division called Northgate Vehicle Solutions.
The business was relocated to Darlington last summer significantly improving the service levels we offer customers.
Our vehicle monitoring product, branded as Insight, continues to be of value to an ever-growing number of our customers and is now fitted to 1,400 of our vehicles, up from 750 on 1 May 2003.
FUALSA SPAIN The year saw further expansion of the network with sites rolled out in North Madrid, Santander and La Coruna.
Since the year-end, we have opened in Murcia, which brings our total number of locations to 12.
There remains much scope for further greenfield development and infill and we remain confident of achieving our target of 20 locations by April 2006.
The fleet closed at 15,000 on 30 April 2004, an increase of 25% over the prior year and 50% since our initial investment in July 2002.
As in the UK, the overall utilisation rate of 88% is held back slightly by the lower rates of utilisation as the network continues to expand.
Of the 12 depots operated by Fualsa, six have been opened during the last two years.
Hire rates have seen modest increases of 1% over the last 12 months.
This increase is similar to that achieved in the period from July 2002 to April 2003.
As a result of the healthy fleet growth and good utilisation, Fualsa delivered a contribution before goodwill amortisation of 3.3m 2003 1.9m to our pre-tax profits.
Current Trading and Outlook Trading for the Group since the year-end has been in line with our Earnings per share p expectations.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, in the UK we cannot become complacent and need to remain focused on those areas where we can drive through further efficiencies and thereby improve our business further.
The challenges in Spain come in growing the fleet, whilst diversifying from the current bias towards the construction sector, together with the further development of people and processes to create a structure for sustainable long term growth.
It is likely that the Group will achieve a higher profit per unit through operational gearing effects than was first envisaged at the start of the three year Strategy for Growth but may fall short of the original target of 60,000 vehicles in the UK by April 2006.
However, the vehicle fleet in Spain is likely to exceed our target of 18,000 vehicles given the rate of growth that is currently being experienced.
We are confident that the overriding goal of our plan, namely to achieve annual double-digit earnings per share growth, remains achievable.
