05 PHS Group plc PHS operates through its five divisions, providing quality workplace services to customers nationwide.
These five divisions provide washroom services, dust mat services, live and replica plants, point of use water dispensers and specialist crate rental.
A mixture of organic and acquisition growth allied to effective cost control has seen all five divisions grow profitability in the year.
06 PHS Group plc Operating review PHS Washrooms PHS Washrooms, the number one provider of washroom equipment Notable contracts won in the year include Early Learning Centre, and servicing in the UK, grew turnover from 99.5m to 120.2m, JD Hull Dental Group and Co-Op.
The new outbound call centre an increase of 20.8% in the year.
recently opened in Ammanford, West Wales, with the capacity to Divisional operating profit before central costs grew from 46.0m house up to 200 people, will be used to increase the volume of new to 54.3m, an increase of 18.0%.
business won and number of appointments made for the field sales The margin moved from 46.3% to 45.2% as a result of lower force over the telephone.
margins on the Airstream and Johnsons Washroom Services PHS All Clear, our clinical waste business, made a valuable acquisitions during integration and increased investment in our contribution to the Group, winning notable contracts during the service resource resulting in improved service performance.
At the year including one with the Highfield Nursing Home Group for the end of the year, prices overall remained at similar levels to the start collection of clinical waste worth over 0.2m per annum.
Customer retention initiatives including Project Fast Response, PHS Washrooms contributed 72.7% of Group turnover and 80.9% Project 24 24 and Project Q Call helped maintain contractual of Group operating profit before central costs.
A number of new products and services were launched during Cost reduction initiatives included the closure of two PHS Direct the year, most notably: Ambiscent, a product aimed at fragrancing warehouses in Reading and Thetford, replaced by the opening of a larger spaces: a new Ultrazone odour neutralising product: a range single, more efficient warehouse in Reading.
Following on from its of new air filtration products: new fragrances for the highly successful successful implementation in PHS Treadsmart, Project Atlas is being Aerofresh product: and a platinum Vend 2000.
By enhancing the rolled out in this division where it is expected to deliver service features and benefits of our products, we are meeting the changing productivity improvements.
During the year, 56.1m was invested in 14 acquisitions.
The most Good progress has been made in further development and sales significant were Airstream Services and Johnsons Washroom Services of our water management system, which saves water in mens urinals.
Both were bolted-on to our Focus on the development of products and services to clean, filter and existing washroom service business and integrated on schedule.
fragrance air and neutralise unpleasant odours also remains strong.
In addition, the management of the division has recently been Strong growth is expected in both these product ranges as well as reorganised with Ian Osborne being appointed as Managing Director the niche markets of dental and pharmaceutical waste disposal.
of PHS Washrooms from April 2004.
Ian has been with PHS for more Project Matrix, the initiative directing our sales force towards than three years as Managing Director of PHS Waterlogic, which customers with development potential, has proved of particular benefit delivered strong growth in both turnover and profitability, under his to PHS Washrooms, assisting in the organisation and direction of effective leadership.
which resource is used for each customer contact.
This has provided both cost and efficiency benefits to the division.
Service PHS Washrooms offers unrivalled standards of service based on a commitment to customer satisfaction.
Our total service package includes free product delivery and installation: complete product maintenance, including regular equipment checks and refilling of consumables: flexible service arrangements to suit individual premises: and free emergency call out with our unique 24 24 service.
07 PHS Group plc Product The intelligent PHS water management system helps create the perfect balance between hygiene and economy.
Using innovative technology, the system automatically adjusts the flushing of the urinal to match actual usage.
Just one of a complete range of products on offer to keep your washroom clean and hygienic.
Washrooms 08 PHS Group plc Operating review PHS Treadsmart Treadsmart Product Investment in new technology is key to the continued success of PHS Treadsmart, highlighted by our development of a new, modern laundry in Coventry offering the benefits of additional capacity, lower running costs and reduced environmental impact.
Our technologically advanced laundering service ensures that dust mats are thoroughly deep cleaned to remove moisture, dust and grit so looking brighter, smarter and richer in colour than other services.
09 PHS Group plc Service PHS Treadsmart offers a lift and lay service for all dust mats, which includes regular removal of mats for specialist laundering and immediate replacement with fresh ones, so floors are never left without protection.
Offering flexible service arrangements, PHS Treadsmart can customise the service to suit individual customers requirements.
PHS Treadsmart, the number one provider and maintainer of standard and speciality mats in the UK, grew turnover from 14.4m to 16.0m, an increase of 11.0% in the year.
Divisional operating profit before central costs grew from 3.9m to 5.1m, an increase of 30.4%.
The margin improved from 27.3% to 32.1% as a result of the continuing shift in the product mix towards speciality mats, reduced sales costs and improved prices.
PHS Treadsmart contributed 9.7% of Group turnover and 7.7% of Group operating profit before central costs.
The growth in both turnover and operating profit was driven by increased demand for speciality mats and PHS Hi-Viz, our laundering service for high visibility clothing.
During the year, a new anti-bacterial mat was introduced, aimed at food preparation areas.
PHS Treadsmart continues to work with mat technologists from around the world to develop our product range and offer innovative solutions to keep ahead of the competition in meeting our customers needs.
PHS Hi-Viz produced strong growth contributing to the overall improved performance of the division.
The investment of 0.3m in new laundry equipment has increased our capacity to service this market and we have won a number of large contracts in the year, most notably a new contract with Network Rail worth approximately 0.9m per annum.
We see scope for strong growth in this market, as there are an estimated 2.2 million wearers of high visibility clothing in the UK, particularly in the emergency services, rail industry and utility companies.
Project Atlas, the introduction of new route planning software, has been fully implemented and is delivering service productivity benefits in the order of 5%, with further benefits expected in the new year.
In addition, our procurement initiative has resulted in an agreement with a new mat supplier that should deliver annual savings of approximately 0.1m.
Good progress is being made in the development of a new, modern, purpose-built laundry in Coventry which, once opened, will result in lower running costs and give additional capacity.
The project is expected to be completed in 2004.
Our initiatives and focus on customer service have resulted in contractual customer retention improving to a record high of 88% 2003: 86%.
10PHS Group plc Operating review PHS Greenleaf Service Businesses today are more demanding than ever in their desire for quality interior design that impresses customers and motivates staff through stunning plant displays in beautiful containers.
Choosing and maintaining the plants best suited to any environment requires special skills and attention to detail, which PHS Greenleaf is best qualified to provide.
At PHS Greenleaf, the number one provider and maintainer of live and replica plants to commercial premises in the UK, turnover fell from 13.2m to 12.5m, a reduction of 5.2%.
This is primarily attributable to continued cost pressures on customers, particularly those in the financial services and tourism markets.
Divisional operating profit before central costs improved from 2.0m to 2.1m, an increase of 4.7%.
The margin improved from 15.2% to 16.8% largely as a result of further improvements in service productivity and better prices.
PHS Greenleaf contributed 7.6% of Group turnover and 3.1% of Group operating profit before central costs.
Measures to stimulate demand include the launch of a new range of interior plants and containers, together with new literature.
Towards the end of the year, PHS Greenleaf won a contract with Spirit Group worth approximately 1.0m, which commenced in Spring 2004.
The innovation and creativity of the design and installation teams is demonstrated by the projects at GlaxoSmithKline and Alton Towers, which have gained prestigious awards from the American Landscapers Contractors Association ALCA and the British Association of Landscape Industries BALI.
A number of ongoing initiatives to further improve efficiency include the reorganisation of purchasing allied to tighter stock control, savings in the cost of live plants and containers from our procurement initiatives and the use of new plant care technology to preserve existing plants longer and reduce replacement costs.
The performance of our Christmas product offering was enhanced by the use of a single depot as the central warehousing and distribution point.
This more cost effective approach also helped improve the quality of our service, leaving us optimistic of higher levels of repeat business next Christmas.
Customer service continued to show substantial improvements with proactive customer contact and faster customer response helping to improve contractual customer retention to 79% 2003: 74%.
11PHS Group plc Greenleaf Product PHS Greenleaf is the UKs leading supplier of interior landscape services in the UK, offering a wide range of both interior and exterior plant services to suit all tastes and budgets.
From the smallest desktop to the largest interior landscaping project, PHS Greenleaf has the experience, horticultural knowledge and creative skills to design a display to suit all tastes.
12PHS Group plc Operating review PHS Waterlogic Product The WL3000 is an ergonomically designed mains-fed drinking water dispenser, with a multi-stage purification process that guarantees water to be fresh and free from harmful bacteria.
Mains water is passed through two advanced filtration chambers and an ultraviolet sterilisation unit before being dispensed as hot, chilled, still or sparkling all at the touch of a button.
Waterlogic 13PHS Group plc PHS Waterlogic, the number one provider and maintainer of plumbed-in point of use water dispensers, grew turnover from 7.1m to 9.9m, an increase of 40.2%.
Divisional operating profit before central costs improved from 2.6m to 3.7m, an increase of 42.8%.
The margin improved from 36.5% to 37.1%, largely as the result of lower sales costs relative to turnover.
PHS Waterlogic contributed 6.0% of Group turnover and 5.5% of Group operating profit before central costs.
New products launched during the year include a redesigned model of the budget WL650 product, providing a newer, more exciting look to increase its appeal for todays modern offices and industrial premises.
The WL650 was replaced with the newly-approved WL2000 water dispenser in Spring 2004.
Other new product launches included a water fountain and water boiler aimed at the education market.
Major new account wins included MBNA, Pizza Hut and Amey and the focus for the business continues to be on winning new customers.
PHS Waterlogics selling proposition is to educate the customer regarding the benefits of buying higher quality with reference to water taste, purity, convenience and cost, together with the elimination of the need for stocking and handling plastic bottles.
In the second half of the year, PHS Waterlogic won a tender from the Welsh Assembly Government to supply water dispensers to 330 primary schools, all of which were installed during March 2004.
The second half also saw a reorganisation of the sales force with the creation of a new national account team, which is already proving highly successful.
Continued investment in customer service and focus on retention rates have seen contractual customer retention increase to 90% 2003: 87%.
Increasing customer density and consequent improvements to service engineer productivity continue to benefit the business.
Product engineering work continues on the core products in the ongoing drive to further improve performance and reduce cost.
PHS Waterlogic took its first step outside the UK in December 2003, with the 5.2m acquisition of the Dublin-based company, All Water Systems Limited.
Significant resource has since been added to the sales force and best practice from the Group introduced to drive the growth of the business in Ireland.
Service With a nationwide team of qualified service engineers, PHS Waterlogic provides the highest quality of service to all customers, regardless of size and geographical location.
14PHS Group plc Operating review Teacrate Teacrate, the number one provider of plastic crates and pallets to the UK office and commercial moving market, grew turnover from 5.8m to 6.7m, an increase of 15.7%.
Operating profit increased from 1.8m to 1.9m, an increase of 7.6%.
The margin moved from 30.9% to 28.8% as a result of changes in the rental sales mix.
Teacrate contributed 4.0% of Group turnover and 2.8% of Group operating profit before central costs.
Teacrate has continued to focus on taking market share from the competition in its core market of office and commercial moving and on developing new business in the food distribution market.
Customers won from the competition in the core business include Aviva and Britannia Removal Company.
The division has expanded its product offering to the food distribution market and invested 0.1m in a crate washing facility at a new service depot in Birmingham.
Crates for food distribution accounted for 10% of turnover in the year compared with 2% last year and new food distribution customers won during the year include Campbell Foods and Vitacress.
Teacrate was also successful in identifying spike demand customers, those with seasonal requirements, an example of which is Royal Mail where Teacrate supplies crates to help sorting the Christmas post.
Service As the number one provider of plastic crates and pallets to the UK office and commercial moving market, Teacrate offers a high quality, reliable service to all customers.
With advanced computer software including customer-facing internet based services and an integrated order, delivery and invoice process, Teacrate offers the complete crate solution.
15PHS Group plc Product From crates designed to hold a complete computer system to those for holding organically grown produce, Teacrate offers a wide range of strong, clean and durable products for the office removal, food production and agricultural markets.
