CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS WHEN HURRICANE ISABEL HIT NORTH CAROLINA AND VIRGINIA LAST YEAR, IT LEFT 36 HOMES DESTROYED, 1,800 PEOPLE IN TEMPORARY SHELTER AND 4.5 MILLION WITHOUT POWER.
THE DESPERATE SITUATION GENERATED A NEED FOR A WHOLE RANGE OF EMERGENCY REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR ITEMS URGENTLY.
Business issue The benefits When Hurricane Isabel hit North Carolina and Without the investment in systems, a huge Virginia, it left a trail of devastation and an undertaking such as this could have taken urgent requirement for emergency repair and as much as 14 days to organise too long replacement items.
given the seriousness of the situation Newark InOne was able to provide rapid and Newark InOne needed to make contact with proactive solutions to the urgent and specific specific customers to make them aware of the needs of particular customers products available on demand and the special services arranged to help them deal with the I am convinced our customer relationship impact of the disaster.
management systems played a critical role in supporting our customers.
It enabled us to identify a specific group The solution of customers who were experiencing a Using its customer relationship management difficult situation and respond to systems, Newark InOne had a fully operational their needs.
solution in place within 48 hours: Targeting over 17,000 specific contacts Creating tailored eMails and call scripts to John Dougherty facilitate communication with each of these Sales Manager contacts Newark InOne Making customers aware of the specific products available to meet the needs of this situation and special emergency delivery services Tracking the follow-up actions required to ensure customer needs were met.
10 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED 1 On Thursday 17th September 2003, Hurricane Isabel 2 Leaving 1,800 people in temporary shelter 3 hit North Carolina and Virginia and 4.5 million without power, it created a desperate situation 5 involving 42 staff communicating 6 A special Next Flight Out service was 7 Customers were made aware of the 8 with 17,000 customers promoted for emergency needs specific products available to meet their urgent requirements 10 Service hours were extended throughout 11 the emergency period 1 On Thursday 17th September 2003, Hurricane Isabel 2 Leaving 1,800 people in temporary shelter 3 Urgent contact with specific customers 4 Within 48 hours an action plan was being hit North Carolina and Virginia and 4.5 million without power, it created a was required rolled out desperate situation 5 involving 42 staff communicating 6 A special Next Flight Out service was 7 Customers were made aware of the 8 from Newark InOnes offer 9 from uninterruptible power supplies with 17,000 customers promoted for emergency needs specific products available to meet their of 160,000 products from over to high voltage transformers urgent requirements 400 manufacturers 17,000 PEOPLE CONTACTED THANKS TO OUR NEW SYSTEMS 10 Service hours were extended throughout 11 Newark InOne was able to act the emergency period quickly and decisively to meet its customers needs SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 11 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR NEEDS RESEARCH AND SMALL SCALE PLANT AND FACILITY DEVELOPMENT PRODUCTION MAINTENANCE, PRODUCT SERVICE AND REPAIR OUR CUSTOMERS DESIGN PURCHASING MAINTENANCE OR ENGINEER PROFESSIONAL SERVICE ENGINEER FINANCE OR FINANCE OR FINANCE OR PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR THEIR NEEDS PRODUCT QUALITY AND EASY AND RELIABLE MINIMISE PRODUCTION TIME TO MARKET SUPPLY DOWNTIME OUR RESPONSE Large breadth and range Sourcing Stockroom management of products in stock Unusual product search Unusual product search Swift delivery Quote, supply and kit to a bill Low minimum order quantity Easily viewed and accessed of materials Late order capability same on web and catalogue Pricing options day dispatch Leading brands and new technology Easy to find and buy Local customer support Technical advice Stockroom management Ease and speed of finding product Unusual product search Obsolescence notification AMERICAS EUROPE AND ASIA PACIFIC SALES 286.1M SALES 382.1M GROWTH -0.9% GROWTH 6.8% OPERATING PROFIT 27.0M OPERATING PROFIT 40.6M Before rebranding costs Before rebranding costs and amortisation of goodwill 12 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION What we do Secure, reliable and rapid supply of products Case study 1 Representing 87 per cent of the Groups sales, which are easy to identify, select and order the Marketing and Distribution Division consists Technical information and support of five businesses all specialising in the Business issue Wide choice of sales channels to match their marketing and distribution of a wide range of The work of Keele Universitys Central Technical needs electronic components and maintenance, repair Services is very wide ranging: from using a and operations MRO products.
Between portable appliance tester to test electrical items, Supply chain management solutions them, they serve most of the countries of the to design and build projects using the skills and world with specialist service propositions facilities of the mechanical workshop, to making To our suppliers, we represent the most tailored to customers needs.
CDs for physiotherapy course handbooks.
effective means of reaching a valuable and diverse customer base: Our high service, small volume distribution Within this environment, Andrew Mansbridge, Effective targeted marketing to customers proposition is underpinned by a broad range of Electronics IT supervisor of Keele Universitys grouped according to their requirements 400,000 stocked products branded and own Central Technical Services, has a need to branded, including the latest new products, source a wide variety of products.
Market intelligence and feedback available for same day despatch and rapid Product launches delivery.
Our customers now also have easy Inevitably, there are times when the product access to millions of additional products held required is outside Farnell InOnes stocked Multi-channel marketing on our database.
For example, while preparing a quotation Reliable and swift global distribution for a research grant submission, a specific chip This customer base is large and active with Technical support to customers was required to make an amplifier used in a two million customer contacts on our piezo electronic device.
Varying in size and scope from Our trading environment small manager-owned enterprises to large Global influences The solution multi-nationals, our customers businesses Andrew called upon Farnell InOnes Despite depressed markets in recent years, represent nearly all industries and our contacts we have continued to invest in strengthening ProductFind service, a database of over correspond to a wide range of different job four million products and, we were able to our business offering in order to drive increased roles.
Our typical customer contacts are market share.
identify and source the specialist product engineers and buyers in electronics design, required, located at Apex Microtechnology small-scale production and maintenance.
Our A number of market drivers and dynamics are in the US.
task is to understand their requirements and also directing our focus.
Trawling the web, searching through ensure that our offer delivers benefits to them.
A maintenance engineer, for example, relies on The large scale manufacture of electronic catalogues and even managing to track products is migrating to low cost economies down and speak to the UK agents of a the availability of specific products and swift and reliable delivery, whereas a design engineer such as China, Mexico and Eastern Europe.
US manufacturer had produced no We have established sound relationships with results, explained Andrew.
needs accurate technical support and rapid access to the latest technology advances many of the companies who are making this shift in their production and are maximising the For an operation like ourselves, with through new products.
diverse product needs, ProductFind can opportunities it presents to supply their Large corporate customers derive significant maintenance, repair and operations save hours of searching and frustration.
Its good to know that we can get rapid benefit from our services which enable them to requirements.
However, research and design reduce the total cost of procuring their indirect of new products, an important part of our quotes on prices and availability on hard-to-find products.
These include the components, primary market, is largely continuing in products and spares required for maintenance, the West.
Andrew Mansbridge repair and operations activities.
Procurement Electronics IT Supervisor and finance specialists want visibility and A major new phenomenom is the role of China, which accounts for around a third of the Keele University control so that they can reduce the administration costs of purchasing these materials.
consumption of semi-conductors in production.
We are building our infrastructure in this market, We continue to segment the market and tailor augmenting our sales representation in Beijing with the opening of a sales office and our proposition to meet the needs of each type of customer.
Strategically, this ability to distribution centre in Shanghai.
communicate with and service a large number Supply chain influences of customers represents a source of significant Our customers are constantly seeking to value to our suppliers.
improve their productivity and reduce costs.
Our role in the market Large and small manufacturing companies As a distributor, we must create efficiencies and add value in the chain between our customers are increasingly focussing on their core processes to maximise profitability and looking and suppliers.
for ways of streamlining or outsourcing To our customers, we offer economic benefit non-core activities.
This trend is particularly and peace of mind: evident in the procurement of indirect materials.
The administrative cost of acquisition can be Reduced stockholding costs through easy disproportionate to the individual cost of these access to a huge range of products in the types of products, for example, hand tools and quantities required consumables, in part because of the large Reduced transaction costs through number of suppliers typically involved.
eProcurement and vendor reduction MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION CONTINUED The drive to eliminate administration costs and Making the most of our customer Case study 2 reduce the number of suppliers, sourcing a relationships wider range of products from one distributor, is The primary focus of our Investment for Growth a trend to which we can fully respond with our programme announced in January 1999 has Business issue broad range of electronic components and been to move from dealing with all our Australian mining electronics manufacturer, industrial products.
See case study 2 customers in the same way to treating them as Bramco Electronics, produces a broad range of individually as we can.
The way in which we products from simple items to complex The consolidation of electronic component market to, and serve, our customers is  communications and manufacturers creates an opportunity for us.
enhanced by our increasing ability to capture conveyor management systems.
Successful suppliers want to work with a and use information about them, understanding limited number of capable distributors who their buying patterns and their requirements.
In order to concentrate on developing have global reach and are adding value in the innovative products, Bramco needed to supply chain through sophisticated marketing.
The prime source of this market intelligence is outsource its stock control and production The larger, multi-national distributors have the millions of transactions and other contacts co-ordination.
competitive advantage over regional and local with our customers and suppliers.
Our distributors who are unable to meet the knowledge and investment in technology The solution increasing expectations of suppliers.
Our enables us to take our product and customer By examining Bramcos Bills of Materials and breadth of product, choice of sales channel, data, interpret it and identify new ways in which required production quantities, Farnell InOne high levels of customer service and increasing to improve and differentiate our offer from that Australia were able to offer scheduled orders range of specific services, provide real differential of our competitors.
and mixed quantity pricing to deliver the best advantage in meeting these requirements.
We also undertook to The customer relationship management tools carry one months stock with the ability to draw Legislation which have been implemented in Newark on that stock at 24 hours notice.
European Directives restricting the use of InOne in the US and Farnell InOne in the UK hazardous substances RoHS and imposing are powerful and sophisticated.
Complete kits of parts required to produce a obligations in respect of waste electronic and particular product are delivered together in a electrical equipment WEEE are due to be When a customer calls to place an order with box so the savings on picking parts and either one of these businesses, the name of the implemented in the UK during 2004.
The RoHS ordering are immediately obvious.
If Bramco is Directive bans the use of substances such as customer automatically appears on the required to fulfil an urgent order, a kit can be operatives screen together with details of their lead, mercury and cadmium in electronic and called up from Farnell InOne overnight, giving electrical products and will have a major impact trading history when they last ordered, what them greater manufacturing flexibility.
they ordered and their recent transactions with on our industry.
Equivalent legislation is also Manufacturing efficiency has improved and pending in a number of US States and in us.
We can immediately recognise the paperwork simplified.
customer, their type of business and what they China.
We are working with our customers and suppliers to provide information and assistance have been buying from us.
This rich seam of Weve found that as we get busier our knowledge empowers our customer care staff, turnaround times are actually getting in this complex area.
enabling them to provide unparalleled support, shorter, because Farnell InOne are one offer appropriate promotional products and step ahead of us.
They are totally Our progress this year Communicating our global offer direct customers to relevant new services.
The rebranding of four of our businesses to Mark Leishman become Farnell InOne, Newark InOne, The full implementation of our customer relationship management systems in Newark General Manager BuckHickman InOne and MCM, an InOne Bramco Electronics company, has enabled us to communicate InOne and Farnell InOne in the UK this year has enabled us to segment our customers quickly the power and resources of our global operations increasingly important to and accurately to provide focussed web pages, customers, suppliers and employees.
telesales, and direct mail campaigns.
For example, Newark InOne has recently launched InOne customers now have access to over a new direct mail publication mailed to over 3,000 suppliers, 400,000 stocked products 100,000 design engineer customers and and an unparalleled range of specialist services created a specialist design engineers web worldwide, while suppliers benefit from portal with drop-down menus for conversion increasing access to global coverage.
tools, industry news, manufacturer selector guides, standards and other useful information.
The launch of the Newark InOne Direct Ship service is a typical example of the way we are By gaining a much greater understanding of benefiting from close collaboration between the our customers, we are able to target our InOne businesses.
Our InOne customers in products and services better and earn a larger Europe and Asia Pacific now benefit from easy share of customers spending.
access to an additional 70,000 products As we continue to develop our customer delivered direct from the US on a low cost, three-day delivery service.
relationship management capabilities, we will increasingly be able to offer our full range of value-added services to the small and medium sized customers who represent the largest number of our contacts.
See case study 3 14 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED Increasing focus on the web categories of products only from Farnell InOne.
Case study 3 Our sales via eCommerce have reached 15% UKAEA benefits from better control over of our total sales in the Americas and 12% of spending, improved compliance with supplier our total sales in Europe and Asia Pacific.
The agreements and greater productivity as staff Business issue shift to the Internet enables us to introduce new are able to spend more time on their core US Federal Government agencies have a products more rapidly and facilitates the provision job responsibilities.
requirement to source thousands of different of technical data and information-based electronic and related products.
They need to A similar approach with Transco, the UK gas services to all our customers.
This is attracting be able to manage and control their costs new customers as well as allowing existing distribution company, links our customised of procurement by minimising the number of catalogue with Transcos SAP enterprise customers to move to a lower cost channel.
vendors they deal with relying on these resource planning system, allowing the capture suppliers for quality products, available on The majority of our customers are small of spending information for reporting across demand and delivered rapidly throughout businesses.
Typically, their staff are very active the organisation.
users of the Internet, owing to their technical We now have 282 live eProcurement partnerships backgrounds, and need to access the latest Without going to several different sources each technical and product information.
See case study 4 time to check prices, government purchasers need to be confident that they are buying Adding value with tailored services We continue to invest in new web technology across a wide range at competitive prices.
to provide constantly improving sites, which This year, we rolled out our ProductWatch service throughout Europe and Asia Pacific.
offer advanced search facilities and rapid The solution access to technical data.
ProductWatch allows us to alert a design Newark InOne has created a special business engineer when a component is due to become unit, Team Gov, to serve the specific needs Our main area of focus in the coming year will obsolete and advise them of a replacement.
of this segment operating under the General be to drive continuing sales growth through Services Administration GSA Schedule: technical enhancements and the addition of It is becoming an invaluable tool for our design Offering a one stop shop for 160,000 facilities and services.
engineer customers and helps them avoid products from over 400 manufacturers changes in product designs if components are Exploiting our eProcurement capabilities withdrawn.
Over 100,000 such customer Establishing a specially trained government eProcurement provides vital links to customers communications have been made since the team well-versed in the specific requirements in-house transactional systems, enabling the launch of the service.
of government purchasers automation of most of the commercial Creating a unique www.
com web mechanics from the ordering process to We are expanding our inventory management site and phone number skills into our customers premises.
In the past invoicing and payment.
The potential customer benefits can be significant including: year, we have been able to provide these The success of Team Gov is illustrated by services principally to our larger customers.
Reducing the cost of administering and double-digit growth in sales this year.
With our customer relationship management processing orders systems in Newark InOne in the US and The benefits Shortening the purchasing process Farnell InOne in the UK, and growing capability, A huge reduction in process costs by we will increasingly be able to offer this level of Reducing errors in ordering reducing the number of orders placed with service to the smaller customers who represent different suppliers Eliminating rogue purchasing the majority of our business.
Spending less time locating products Ensuring only approved or contracted a one-stop source for a huge range of We now supply business-critical maintenance, suppliers are used products at competitive prices.
repair and operations products at the point of Minimising the risk of buying inferior products use to eight separate Rolls-Royce plc sites Dealing with a supplier that really off-contract throughout the UK, via our vendor managed understands their needs inventory stocking solution.
This uses electronic Increasing transparency of purchasing data inventory control software to re-order the stock The Federal Government segment is required automatically, with next-day We are equipped to link to any purchasing different from any other with its own replenishment of stocking locations.
system, responding to whatever the customer specific requirements so much so that wants, quickly and at low cost.
you need to be able to speak There are considerable benefits to our government.
It is satisfying to be able to customers of consolidating all their consumable For our larger customers, the ability to concentrate on meeting these special requirements within a single contract, including customise our electronic catalogues to their needs with service our federal improved service levels, reduced total cost of specific requirements is a major benefit.
We government customers really appreciate.
acquisition and reduced transaction levels.
can tailor the product range and pricing to the customers exact specifications.
Catalogues Phil Bearden Building our capabilities can sit behind the customers firewall to give Team Gov Contact Center Manager This year has seen continuing investment in them greater control and we can build in Newark InOne building the fabric of our business by capabilities to enable data and products to be broadening our product range and expanding acquired from other web sites known as our presence in new geographies.
Newark InOne added a total of 56,000 new Farnell InOne has recently won a contract to products to its range this year, greatly supply the UK Atomic Energy Authority UKAEA improving the competitiveness of our offer to with electrical and electronic equipment at six design engineers in particular.
We developed a tailored online catalogue of approximately 100,000 products, which helps to ensure that their employees buy these MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 15 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
