Operational review Exploration and appraisal Working Interest Entitlement Premier is committed to a strategy for growth in shareholder value 2005 2004 2003 2004 2003 Production Year to date Ongoing Ongoing through investing in an extensive and high quality exploration boepd end Feb operations operations programme.
Each year we elect to drill the best of our large UK  portfolio of exploration opportunities, choosing to drill a varied Pakistan 12,600 10,300 8,100 10,300 8,100 and exciting suite of wells.
We believe it is important to spread Indonesia 11,300 12,500 11,700 9,300 9,800 investment over a number of high potential opportunities rather Total 36,600 34,700 35,100 31,500 33,200 than focusing too narrowly.
Proven and probable reserves, on a working interest basis, Premier participated in 11 exploration and appraisal wells in 2004, based on Premier and operator estimates, increased slightly to the same as 2003.
This was a slightly lower number than the plan 177 mmboe, as follows: for 12 to 18 wells, due to a greater focus on development drilling by the operator in Mauritania, and operational delays in Gabon Reserves mmboe and India where drilling is now scheduled for 2005.
However, the Start of 2004 175 programme yielded six successes Gajah Baru-2 in Indonesia, the Production 12 Tevet and Tiof 3, 4 and 5 wells in Mauritania and Sinapa-2 offshore Revisions 6 Guinea Bissau.
Overall, the programme has yielded a 50 per cent Acquisition 8 or better success rate for each of the two successive years since End of 2004 177 our restructuring was announced.
At year-end reserves comprised 20 per cent liquids and 80 per cent The programme for 2005 includes drilling in West Africa, South gas, and the equivalent volume on an entitlement basis amounted and South East Asia.
Up to five wells are under consideration in to 157 mmboe 2003: 155 mmboe.
Mauritania, with other West African wells offshore Gabon Iris, Themis and Guinea Bissau on the Esperana block.
Exploration Revisions represent increases mainly in the Wytch Farm, Kyle, Bhit wells are in progress in India Lakkhi-1 and Egypt Al Amir-1, and Indonesia block A fields, partly offset by minor downgrades and later in the year we expect to commence drilling up to two to the Scott and Kakap fields.
The increases result from better than wells offshore Vietnam and at least one Macan Tutul in block A expected reservoir performance and the impact of new field data.
The acquisition volume reflects the completion of the purchase of our interest in the Chinguetti field.
Production and reserves Working interest production for 2004 averaged 34,700 boepd.
There has been considerable discussion recently over the disclosure Comparable production from 2003 from ongoing operations, of oil and gas reserves by upstream companies, particularly under post the restructuring, was 35,100 boepd, and total annualised Securities and Exchange Commission definitions applicable for production including assets disposed in the restructuring reporting in the US, relating to the narrower proved category.
amounted to 53,600 boepd in that year.
Whilst in the first two Premier reports its reserves on the proven and probable basis in months of 2005 production of 36,600 boepd has out-performed accordance with the UK Statement of Recommended Practice our budget, we currently estimate 2005 annual production at SORP issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee dated an average of about 32,000 boepd.
Production comprised one-third liquids and two thirds gas, with It has been the Premier Boards practice in finalising its annual the UK and Indonesia each accounting for 35 per cent of the total, results to compare its reported reserve estimates with those with Pakistan the remainder.
Working interest production in estimated by independent reporting engineers DeGolyer and Indonesia is allocated between the government and Premier in MacNaughton, to provide additional support for our public accordance with the relevant production sharing agreements.
In view of the current focus On an entitlement basis, group production for the year was on reserve disclosures, the Board has decided for this year to 31,500 boepd.
publish the DeGolyer and MacNaughton proven and probable reserve estimate for fields which have been booked as at the end of 2004.
This amounted to working interest reserves of 179 mmboe on a comparable basis.
It is not intended to publish an independent reserve estimate each year.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Operational review continued Discoveries made in the year in Indonesia and West Africa have In the Fife Area, Premiers net production was 2,100 boepd not been recorded in booked reserves pending completion from the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields with natural decline of ongoing appraisal and commercialisation work.
Including successfully managed by optimisation of existing water injection these discoveries, unbooked reserves in the process of being and gas lift facilities.
Scott and Telford 700 boepd accounted commercialised in respect of uncontracted gas in Indonesia, for the majority of the remainder of net UK production.
together with the Tevet and Tiof discoveries in Mauritania, gives increased total working interest resources of approximately On the exploration front, Premier operated the Criollo-1 well on 210 mmboe.
block 21 10b-5 in the Outer Moray Firth.
This high risk well did not find the targeted Buzzard sands but encountered good quality Europe thick sands of an older age.
These sands have now been mapped Premiers production base in the UK is mainly oil from several mature in another area of the same block and a prospect has been fields and represents a valuable cash flow source.
It also provides generated for potential future drilling.
an opportunity to capture upside potential from incremental investment which reduces the rate of decline, and by managing Premier was successful in acquiring new acreage in the UKCS 22nd costs.
Production in the UK amounted to 11,900 boepd 15,300 Licence Round with 11 blocks awarded, four of which we operate.
This represents a decrease of some 22 per cent The blocks are located in the central and southern North Sea.
on last years level due to natural declines.
However, in the year to Technical work is underway to see if attractive prospects for drilling date, 2005 production has risen to 12,700 boepd as incremental in 2006 and beyond can be generated.
investments in the second half of 2004 have been brought onstream.
In Albania, early in the year, Premier concluded its withdrawal from The Wytch Farm oil field contributed net production of 4,700 boepd the Patos Marinze project.
to Premier, down 16 per cent on last year.
Following the planned rig upgrade completed in the first quarter 2005, the infill drilling South Asia campaign has successfully arrested production decline in the Premiers interests in South Asia are in Pakistan, where we are well offshore area under Poole Bay.
A further three new infill wells in established having been active for 14 years, with production from the offshore area are planned to be drilled in 2005, and a project four gas fields and a long-term exploration programme, and in to enhance oil recovery by injection of low salinity water is being India where we are at the early stages of exploring in the north east progressed towards sanction in 2006. of the country.
Premiers net production from Kyle was 4,200 boepd, down 24 per In Pakistan, 2004 was another successful year for Premier with net cent on 2003.
This was primarily due to natural decline and the production averaging 10,300 boepd, an increase of 28 per cent planned shut-in of the Kyle 14 well from early June to October.
over the prior year 2003: 8,100 boepd.
The increase in production This well produces from the Paleocene reservoir and has now was due to 2004 being the first full year of production from the been successfully tied back to the nearby Ramform Banff floating Bhit and Zamzama fields commissioned in 2003 and expansion production, storage and offtake vessel FPSO.
The well was of Qadirpur plant capacity from 400 to 500 mmscfd completed brought back on-stream at a rate of in excess of 4,000 barrels in March 2004, where average net production rose to 3,100 boepd of oil per day bopd gross, ahead of expectation, and is currently 2003: 2,500 boepd.
producing at a gross rate of around 3,700 bopd of dry oil.
Zamzama produced a net average of 3,500 boepd during the Following negotiation with the Banff operator in 2004, the Kyle year 2003: 2,400 boepd.
For the Zamzama phase-2 development, partners further agreed to tie-back the remaining Kyle wells to a term sheet for the sale of 150 mmscfd has been initialled by the the Banff FPSO, and this is expected to take place this summer.
gas buyer Sui Southern Gas Company Ltd SSGCL and joint As a result of this negotiation an all inclusive processing and venture partners.
The term sheet has been approved by SSGCL transportation tariff has been agreed which will substantially and sent to the Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority for approval.
reduce operating costs and allow the extension of field life to up First gas is expected in mid 2007. to end 2015.
Plans for a compression upgrade at Banff, gas lift of wells and further infill drilling are also under consideration.
Gross Following the successful appraisal of the Badhra field in the field rates are currently around 6,500 bopd and 35 mmscfd of gas.
Kirthar licence south east of Bhit, a Development and Production Lease was awarded in 2004.
Development of Badhra reserves is now planned along with Bhit phase-2, with expected gas production in mid 2007.
Studies for the Bhit plant capacity enhancement are also underway.
The Bhit field produced 2,700 boepd during the year 2003: 2,000 boepd.
8 Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 We believe it is important to spread investment over a number of high potential opportunities rather than focusing too narrowly.
The Zarghun South Development and Production Lease has been Premier believes that the target has the potential to be charged signed with the Government of Pakistan.
Premiers interest of 3.75 with gas and if successful could represent a playmaker well per cent is to be carried by the operator during the development proving the presence of significant gas reserves east of Bangladesh.
and production phases of the field.
A draft gas sales agreement for This would have a strong influence on the proposed development the supply of 22 mmscfd has also been initialled by SSGCL and the of inter-country gas pipeline infrastructure in the region.
joint venture and is in the process of formal approval.
Production is expected in mid 2007.
The farm-out of 35 per cent equity in the Cachar block to Indian Oil Corporation was also completed following government approval, During 2004, the Kadanwari field production continued to decline and Premiers interest in the block has been reduced to 49 per cent.
However, with the tie-in of the successful exploration well Kadanwari West-1 at the start of 2005, In the Jaipur block in Upper Assam, construction of the road and and another well planned in the Kadanwari West area, this well site for our first exploration well, Lakkhi-1, was completed and declining trend will be arrested.
drilling is due to commence imminently.
In addition, geological field studies have revealed further leads which may mature into Exploration in the Dumbar licence area was completed with the drillable prospects during 2005. drilling of our last committed exploration well Chung-1.
The well was declared a dry hole and the licence has been relinquished.
The company is continuing to seek opportunities to expand The company was awarded a new exploration licence, Jhangara, its portfolio in India.
The licence is due to be signed in April 2005 and preparations to drill the Maliri well, a prospect close to the Badhra South East Asia field, are underway.
The backbone of our business in South East Asia is our interest in the West Natuna gas project in Indonesia, supplying gas under a Elsewhere in Pakistan, Premier is participating in the Shell-operated long-term sales contract to Singapore.
This is through our interests Indus Offshore block 2365-1.
Interpretation of the 3D seismic in the Natuna Sea block A and Kakap production sharing contracts suggests that a number of large oil-prone prospects lie in the PSCs from which we also had oil production of some 2,400 bopd western portion of the block, comprising Tertiary sand channels in 2004. draped over four-way dip closed structures.
The acreage is located in deep water and, to mitigate the likely high well cost, all parties Gas export from the operated block A Anoa Gas Export facility in the group are farming down their working interests in the block, has reached record levels, with average gross gas production leaving Premier holding a 12.5 per cent equity stake.
In the fourth quarter, offtake by the gas buyer underway to drill a well in 2005 06.
SembGas reached such high levels that at times gas was supplied above the contract maximum rate.
In India, in Assam, Premier has deployed pioneering seismic techniques to process data from such environments which are Oil production from Anoa averaged 3,079 bopd gross, down well known to present imaging difficulties.
This technology is not on the prior year as the oil reservoir continues to deplete.
Overall, widely shared across the industry and was developed as part of our net production from Indonesia amounted to 12,500 boepd, up programme looking at thrust belts in other similar exploration areas.
8 per cent from the prior year on a comparable basis, excluding production attributable to the share of block A sold as part of In our operated Cachar block in Southern Assam, a 230km 2D the restructuring which completed in 2003. seismic survey was completed in difficult jungle terrain.
The survey was undertaken over a four month period, with a workforce of During the year, three work-over wells were drilled and some 1,600 personnel at its peak, and was successfully completed successfully re-completed as gas producers which have since without a lost time incident.
These wells have under-pinned our deliverability capability.
In addition, engineering work has Interpretation of this new seismic, together with existing geological commenced on the West Lobe Wellhead Platform, which is and geophysical data, has confirmed our view that the block is planned to access gas reserves in the West Lobe area of the prospective for large accumulations of hydrocarbons.
Front-end engineering and design was completed has recently been taken to drill an exploration well on the Masimpur and followed by the award of an engineering, procurement, prospect.
Road and site construction will commence after the construction and installation contract.
Development drilling monsoon season, and the well is expected to spud in the first is scheduled for 2006 with production from the new facility now quarter of 2006. planned to commence later in that year.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9 Operational review continued Our focus on maintaining world class health, safety and The second tract acquired was an interest in adjacent block 7, environmental performance continues, and in June 2004 a 8 97 in the oil prone area south east of the Dua discovery.
Unlike further milestone was reached with three years of continuous exploration areas further south, this area has not been explored for operation of the Anoa facilities without a lost time incident.
some three decades owing to a border delineation negotiation with Indonesia.
Following a recent 2D seismic survey we are in the Discussions with SembGas on a further gas sales contract process of identifying prospects for future drilling.
continued in 2004 as gas demand and supply has increased above existing contractual maximum rates.
We currently believe that In January 2004, Premier signed a service contract SC43 covering Singapore will continue to take gas at these higher rates under the Ragay Gulf and adjacent land areas in the Philippines.
A work the existing contract into the medium term.
On this basis we have programme of geological studies has identified a prospective commenced discussions with Malaysia, and are looking at the trend of pinnacle carbonate reefs close to the shoreline and domestic market in Indonesia, to develop further opportunities onshore hydrocarbon seeps in the western part of the acreage.
Premier is currently preparing to acquire transition zone seismic data in 2005 to delineate structures better.
The area is considered The Gajah Baru-2 appraisal well was successfully completed in under-explored frontier acreage.
It has been accessed at a low October 2004.
The Gajah Baru field is located 25km from Anoa.
commitment cost and has the playmaking potential for a The well encountered the target Miocene reservoirs in the Arang material number of moderate, but economic, oil prospects formation, following the identification of a thick sand channel as drilling candidates.
using state of the art seismic processing techniques.
Subsequent to this well, the reserves were independently certified at an Africa increased 372 billion standard cubic feet of gas, equivalent to Premiers interests in Africa are concentrated offshore West Africa 67 mmboe.
These reserves, being the lowest cost developable Mauritania, Guinea Bissau and Gabon, with a position acquired gas in the area, will either form part of deliveries under the existing in 2004 onshore Egypt.
sales contracts or be developed to fulfil future gas sales contracts, when agreed.
During the year development of the Chinguetti oil field in Mauritania was commenced.
The Woodside led joint venture Premiers drilling operation established a new world record depth sanctioned the field development in PSC Area B, some 90km interval for the drilling with casing technique when13 inch casing west of the Mauritanian capital Nouakchott, in May, following was drilled from the seabed to a depth of 2,214 feet below the rig Government of Mauritania approval.
floor, thereby making significant cost savings on drilling.
In 2005, it is intended to drill the Macan Tutul exploration prospect on Currently the project is just over 50 per cent complete and on block A, and a second well on the block is under discussion with schedule to meet planned first oil at the end of the first quarter joint venture partners.
2006, although an earlier start date is possible.
The field has proven and probable reserves estimated at around 120 million Elsewhere in the region, in May 2004 Premier announced the barrels of oil and the initial gross production rate is expected to acquisition of two large tracts of acreage offshore Vietnam, in be about 75,000 bopd 6,100 bopd net to Premier.
Following the South Nam Con Son basin, close to the maritime border government back-in our equity interest is 8.12 per cent.
cost of the project is currently estimated to be approximately US$630.0 million US$51.0 million net to Premier.
The first, blocks 12E and 12W, gave Premier an equity share of 75 per cent and operatorship of two blocks which already have Initial field development includes six sub-sea production wells and the Dua oil and gas discovery and a number of undrilled prospects.
five water injection wells for pressure support with flow-lines to a The geology of the blocks is very similar to that of the Indonesian permanently moored FPSO, Berge Helene, in 800m water depth block A area.
Premier acquired an extensive 1,500km 2D seismic with storage capacity of 1.6 million barrels.
Surplus gas not required programme on the block during 2004 to develop candidates for for the field will be re-injected into a nearby reservoir via a single 2005 drilling.
Premier is currently acquiring 3D seismic over the gas injection well.
Drilling began on schedule in September 2004.
Dua field in 2005 in advance of field appraisal drilling.
10 10 10 Pr Pr Premier Oil emier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Exploration and appraisal drilling in Mauritania commenced in In Guinea Bissau, Premier commenced drilling the offshore Sinapa the second half of the year with three exploration wells Tevet, salt diapir prospect in February 2004.
The significance of this well Capitaine and Merou, and three appraisal wells Tiof 3, 4 and 5. is that it proves the hydrocarbon play in the basin, reducing the risk The West Navigator and Stena Tay drilling rigs are engaged of prospects identified in this area by showing that they can be on a combination of exploration, appraisal and Chinguetti charged and can trap oil.
The well successfully penetrated the development wells in an intensive drilling programme which target reservoir and found oil on the flank of the diapir.
The first exploration well, Tevet-1, was and even more mature than expected source rock interval was a success, discovering oil in a structure close to, and in shallower found overlying oil bearing sandstone.
Uniquely for this area, water than, the Chinguetti field.
The potential of a valuable early a 300m thick Albian reservoir interval was encountered comprising tie-back to Chinguetti is under evaluation, and it is likely that the an upper, low permeability oil bearing sandstone from which oil discovery will be appraised in 2005. samples were recovered, above a good quality water wet sandstone.
Future studies are planned to determine if oil can be Following Tevet-1, the Capitaine and Merou wells were drilled recovered commercially from the upper unit, utilising modern in a deepwater setting of 1,5001,700m, further west.
The first, reservoir stimulation and extended reach drilling techniques.
Capitaine-1, was drilled at a location where the thick sand-filled channel that deposited the Chinguetti field sands has run onto The 2005 programme is focused on testing the remaining a deeper water salt dome structure.
This well encountered thick potential on the block.
Geological studies undertaken in 2004 target reservoir sands, but was water wet.
This is now considered indicate that reservoir quality should improve in the south where to be due to the lack of hydrocarbon charge at this location.
we are undertaking 3D seismic acquisition over the Eirozes prospect on the Esperana block.
This will be followed by one or more The second well, Merou-1, was drilled on another deepwater exploration wells later in 2005. salt dome feature, this time down-dip of the Tiof field.
Merou-1 failed to find thick reservoir sands at the selected well location.
This In Gabon, Premier announced entry into the Iris Marin and Themis structure may still have further potential at a different location and is Marin PSCs.
These blocks cover two shallow water exploration 2 2 being evaluated as a candidate for a possible future follow-up well.
concessions offshore Gabon of 902km and 607km respectively.
Both the Themis Marin and Iris Marin concessions are surrounded All of the exploration and appraisal wells have given us valuable by proven oilfields and are close to pipelines and production information both on reservoir distribution and on the hydrocarbon infrastructure.
Since these concessions were awarded in 1999, source for this acreage.
This is being integrated with new seismic a 3D seismic survey has been acquired over the southern part data and information from a new electromagnetic technology of the Themis block, and from these results a number of drilling survey acquired in the area, to develop a number of targets for locations have been identified.
The drilling of the first of two wells future drilling.
Candidates are currently being evaluated and a is being considered for summer 2005.
Elsewhere in Gabon the return to exploration drilling is planned for later in 2005.
Dussafu prospect was drilled in the year by operator Sasol, and was plugged and abandoned.
The appraisal wells at Tiof have provided significant control on the distribution of oil and gas within the Tiof channel area.
By the end Opportunities in North Africa have been under review, and in May of 2003, we had encountered three reservoir units in Tiof, revealed 2004 Premier farmed in to the Egypt North West Gemsa block on 3D seismic by the variations in reflector amplitude response which is on the onshore western side of the prolific Gulf of Suez oil encountered in Tiof-1 and Tiof West.
The Al-Amir-1 well was spudded in December 2004 following of oil bearing sands in the low-amplitude areas of the field and also the acquisition of 3D seismic data earlier in the year.
The well is the occurrence of a fourth reservoir zone beneath these.
This has currently in progress.
allowed the operator Woodside to estimate gross recoverable resources of some 287 million barrels of oil corresponding to approximately one billion barrels of oil in place.
More recently, the Tiof-6 well was also a success with production testing completed in February 2005, and was suspended as a potential future oil production well after flowing at a stable rate of approximately 9,150 barrels per day.
Further appraisal work is expected in 2005 prior to considering a decision to sanction a development project later in the year.
Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11 11
