co. uk UNITED KINGDOM OPERATING REVIEW We operate buses in Arriva also operates the We provide thousands London and across passenger rail franchise of rental vehicles to England, Wales and serving Wales and the local authorities and Scotland border counties major corporations WE HAVE MAINTAINED OUR TRACK RECORD OF CONSISTENT DELIVERY AGAINST OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PLANS.
In Medway, Kent, our 10 million investment in new vehicles, enhanced services, marketing and improved customer information has generated a 15 per cent increase in revenue, while continued partnership with the local authority in Telford has seen further enhancements to services, with new buses delivered to respond to sustained patronage growth.
In a number of regions, demographic changes and increasing car ownership continue to affect bus Bob Davies use, with the result that patronage in the regions was broadly Chief Executive unchanged overall.
We achieved significant progress over the last year with all of our In a further innovation, Arriva signed an exclusive agreement with businesses delivering good performances, complemented by major PayPoint to sell bus tickets through its national network of cash developments in a number of key markets.
Targeted bus acquisitions payment terminals in over 11,000 newsagents, convenience stores, in Denmark and Italy have consolidated our existing positions in these supermarkets, garages and off-licences across the UK.
This will make markets and we have established a platform in Germany, Europes bus ticket purchasing even more convenient for some passengers and largest public transport market, in both the rail and bus sectors.
we anticipate boarding times will be faster as more people buy their In Portugal we have created a joint venture to position Arriva to tickets in advance of their journey.
benefit from the establishment of a multi-modal transport authority in Lisbon.
We have maintained our track record of consistent delivery In January 2005 we obtained Competition Commission clearance for against operational and financial plans.
the acquisition of the assets of Sovereign Bus and Coach Company Limited, which operates 45 buses in the Stevenage and Hatfield area UK BUS from a leasehold depot in Stevenage.
Our UK Bus operations achieved an operating profit of 62.6 million before goodwill amortisation 2003: 57.2 million on a turnover Following our initial research into customer satisfaction levels across of 651.5 million 2003: 604.0 million.
our regional business in 2003, we commissioned a second survey by NOP Research Group in 2004.
The results, from some 17,500 Regions interviews with customers, demonstrated continued improvement In our regional UK Bus business, we have maintained our focus on in overall satisfaction levels.
marketing and enhanced services, with the introduction of new vehicles and improved customer information.
Passenger numbers London have been increased through a number of new projects where we Our London bus operations are the largest in the capital and account have been able to work closely with local authorities.
We believe for nearly 19 per cent of the network.
We retained all our existing strong local relationships are key to delivering a better service and contracts and won some additional routes, increasing our contracted we continue to encourage local authorities to be active partners in mileage by 5 per cent in 2004 as Transport for London TfL the delivery of improvements.
For example, in Merseyside we have continued to improve bus services.
TfL reports that bus is the fastest put forward a comprehensive vision to develop bus services, growing mode of travel, with 26 per cent growth in passenger underpinned by a six-year investment programme.
Active partnerships journeys over three years, of which 10 per cent was recorded with local authorities and their commitment to address issues within in the most recent report.
Improved operational performance their control are fundamental to the success of this type of initiative.
led to better service delivery and enhanced our revenue.
4 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 www.
co. uk SCANDINAVIA OPERATING REVIEW Arriva is the largest provider We operate a waterbus Arriva operates buses of bus services in Denmark service in Copenhagen in the south of Sweden and also operates rail services in Jutland Arriva has invested a further 26.4 million in new buses and facilities These include some newly refurbished trains, the first of which will in 2004, contributing to a total investment in new vehicles for be introduced later in 2005, an upgrade at Chester station and ticket London of 135 million since 2000.
We successfully introduced nearly barriers at principal stations to improve security and protect revenue.
150 new buses to meet the requirements of renewed contracts and ATW will provide a platform for Arrivas further development as we have over 100 new buses on order for delivery by April 2005.
Arriva continue to evaluate tenders for new rail franchises.
We remain also invested in upgrading facilities to provide additional capacity committed to developing our position in UK rail.
both north and south of the Thames.
Our contracted mileage for 2005 will increase by 4 per cent compared with 2004, as the full ATN enjoyed the strong passenger growth experienced across the benefit of continued investment comes into force.
sector, combined with the achievement of the highest levels of punctuality and reliability since its privatisation in 1997.
We are pleased to report that we reduced driver turnover in London The business thereby delivered excellent financial performance to 13 per cent in 2004 half the level of five years ago while prior to the franchise ending.
we increased our total number of drivers by 300.
As part of our commitment to investing in the development of our employees, INTERNATIONAL we opened a new training centre at Croydon, and in partnership Our International division made an operating profit of 32.7 million with the TUC, T&GWU and the College of North East London, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items a Learning Centre at Tottenham.
Of this, 50.2 million of turnover and Fuel is a significant cost in this business and the increase in oil prices 4.0 million of operating profit was contributed by acquisitions will have an impact on the UK Bus divisions costs.
We expect the made in the year, while operating profit in our existing businesses 2005 fuel cost to be around 6 million higher than in 2004. rose by 16 per cent.
Improving margins, particularly in Denmark, contributed to the increase.
Our operations in mainland Europe UK TRAINS are the fastest growing business in the Group.
Turnover has UK Trains achieved an operating profit of 31.5 million doubled in the last three years and we expect strong growth 2003: 24.0 million on a turnover of 509.0 million to be maintained, as local authorities continue to open markets 2003: 433.3 million.
The 2004 franchise mix in UK Trains to private transport providers.
was significantly different from the previous year.
In 2003, we operated Merseyrail for six months and Arriva Trains Northern Germany is a key market for Arriva.
It is Europes largest public ATN for the full year including the TransPennine Express TPE.
TPE transport market and is now introducing competitive tendering was carved out of ATN in February 2004.
In 2004 we operated Arriva in both the rail and bus sectors.
Over the past 12 months we have Trains Wales ATW for its first full year and ATN until 12 December.
established a position in both of these markets to participate effectively in future competitive bidding.
We acquired two German ATW delivered performance in line with expectations.
We have rail businesses and we are strengthening our team there to capitalise worked constructively in partnership with the Welsh Assembly on the tendering opportunities for new franchises.
To date, only Government, which under current policy proposals will have an 10 per cent of local and regional German rail services have been increased role in commissioning local transport services.
We have tendered, however, this proportion is expected to grow rapidly over agreed joint funding for station upgrades in North Wales, additional the next few years.
rolling stock to overcome overcrowding in South Wales and the The first rail company acquired was Prignitzer Eisenbahn Gruppe installation of CCTV on trains to deliver improved services and PEG, which operates in the federal states of North Rhine-Westphalia, safety for passengers.
PEG successfully We successfully completed a widespread consultation on our started operating two new franchises in December 2004, taking its new timetable and received approval for it from the Strategic Rail total number of franchises to five.
Two of these franchises are a joint venture with municipal operator Hamburger Hochbahn.
It will be introduced in December 2005, providing a robust acquired a 76.9 per cent stake, since increased to 92.9 per cent, in and customer-friendly schedule, designed to increase passenger Regentalbahn, which has operations in Bavaria, Thuringia and Saxony.
We are also investing in service improvements at ATW.
6 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 www.
co. uk THE NETHERLANDS OPERATING REVIEW We operate 20 per cent Arriva owns NoordNed, We also have over of regional bus services an integrated rail and bus 300 taxis and demand in the Netherlands operator in the north responsive vehicles Arriva also established a position in the German bus market when in required a restructuring of the business.
Our contract for the NoordNed February 2005 we acquired Sippel, a local public passenger transport rail franchise expires at the end of 2005 and we have submitted a bid operator in the Rhine-Main area.
This includes the cities of Frankfurt, for the new contract.
We anticipate further tendering opportunities Mainz and Wiesbaden.
The Rhine-Main Public Transport Agency has in the Netherlands this year.
already started the process of contracting out bus services and it is Our operations in Portugal and Spain have had another year of strong anticipated that it will progressively subject all regional routes to performance.
In February 2005 we announced the formation tendering over the next few years.
of a joint venture in Portugal with the Barraqueiro Group.
The public transport market in Italy is similar in size to that of the UK This development will position Arriva to benefit from the evolving and also offers promising opportunities as public tendering gathers public transport markets in the country.
In May, the Group acquired a 49 per cent interest in to establish a multi-modal transport authority in Lisbon, the joint Societ Autoservizi F. V. G. S. p. A. SAF, an operator of bus services venture will be well placed to work with the new authority.
in the Udine area of north-eastern Italy.
We have an option to The new business will employ some 2,150 people and operate purchase a further 11 per cent by the end of 2006.
The acquisition 1,100 buses and coaches, 18 train sets and, from 2006, 24 trams.
complements our existing business SAB, the principal regional bus VEHICLE RENTAL operator in the Lombardy region.
Both businesses have had a good In its first full year as a stand-alone business, following the disposal year of consistent delivery.
of our motor retail business, operating profit from Vehicle Rental was 12.5 million, before goodwill amortisation 2003: 12.8 million on In Denmark, our operations continue to see margin growth in line total turnover of 107.4 million 2003: 109.9 million.
In July we bought Wulff Bus A S, whose bus rental income was 52.0 million, broadly similar to last year operations in Jutland and Copenhagen have a strong geographic fit 2003: 51.6 million, as was average rental per vehicle per day.
We with our existing business.
Our rail operations in Jutland successfully introduced all 29 new Alstom Coradia Lint trains on time in 2004 remain focused on organic growth whilst continuing to seek acquisitions and the franchise is outperforming the state-owned operator DSB, which will extend the divisions coverage in the UK.
The business with 97.7 per cent of trains arriving within three minutes of schedule.
achieved high utilisation of its fleet, which averaged some We received performance bonuses in every quarter for punctuality.
The operations also consistently score highly on customer satisfaction, BUS AND COACH receiving performance bonuses in every quarter.
The Danish Minister Bus and Coach achieved an operating profit of 3.2 million, of Transport announced the decision in November to invite tenders before goodwill amortisation 2003: 2.9 million on turnover for a further 10 per cent of the national rail network and Arriva will of 17.4 million 2003: 22.9 million.
The business continues submit bids for these new franchises.
to match its resources closely to the needs of the market place and has, once again, achieved an excellent performance.
We also see opportunities to expand our Swedish bus operations, which are currently small, through further contract wins.
In June we OUTLOOK won an eight-year contract to operate 60 buses in Helsingborg from The Group delivered an excellent result last year with all of our 2005, building on our existing position in the area.
We also won businesses performing well, maintaining our track record of consistent a contract to operate 45 buses in the Skne region, commencing delivery.
We have seen a good start to 2005 in positioning the business in autumn this year.
We have also pre-qualified for rail tenders in to capitalise on the potential we have created in our chosen markets.
Sweden and will be replying to several invitations to tender this year for operations commencing in 2007.
Our strategy continues to be to deliver shareholder value through organic growth and targeted acquisitions, while we maintain a Our business in the Netherlands successfully managed a year of change.
progressive dividend policy and optimise the Groups capital structure.
We started operation of the new Groningen-Drenthe contract, which we won in a tender process last year.
We were also the operator of the previous contract, which accounts for nearly half of our bus Bob Davies operations in the north of the country.
Changes in the new contract Chief Executive 8 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
