Strategic & operational review 04 05 Continued strong momentum Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com The financial year to the 21 August 2004 has continued the strong momentum of delivering growth for shareholders through organic operational improvement and value-enhancing acquisitions.
It is to focus on organic growth of the pub estate through effective recruitment of high quality pub operators: training and support: capital investment and the continued development of preferential supply arrangements for our pubs.
At the same time, the Company seeks to make acquisitions that meet the Boards criteria for earnings enhancement.
Punchs results for the year reflect excellent Phil Cox progress in all of these areas.
Chairman Results A summary of key achievements is set out below.
Turnover of 638m, up 49% Operating profit of 323m, up 42% Profit before tax for the year of 156m, up 38% Adjusted earnings per share of 48.8p, up 24% Continued organic growth with like-for-like turnover and pub profit OPERATING PROFIT contribution up 2.9% and 3.9% respectively.
Average EBITDA per pub in the original estate up 8.7% Acquisition and completed integration of Pubmaster, previously the third largest UK pub chain, adding 3,115 further leased and tenanted outlets 323M Corporate activity In December 2003, we completed the acquisition of Pubmistress Limited, OUR DYNAMIC the ultimate parent company of the Pubmaster pub group.
The purchase price of 1.2bn was met from retained securitised debt, our own cash reserves, and a small amount of unsecured corporate debt which has APPROACH HAS since been repaid.
The Pubmaster business was successfully integrated into the Group within six months of completion and we are on target to AGAIN DELIVERED exceed the expected synergies of 10m per annum announced at the time of acquisition.
RECORD RESULTS pre exceptional items Since year end, we have completed the acquisition of InnSpired Group, the owner of 1,064 leased and tenanted pubs.
The consideration of 335m was met in the first instance by retaining InnSpireds existing securitised debt and a small increase in our unsecured debt facility.
These earnings enhancing acquisitions are made possible by the strong cash generation of our business.
In the last two years we have almost doubled the size of our estate, using our own cash resources and debt, whilst increasing our interest cover from 1.8 times in 2002 to 2.0 times in 2004.
Organic growth Note that in this section: growth refers to a comparison against a comparable 52 week period in 2003, rather than the complete reported year of 53 weeks: the original Punch estate refers to the whole estate except the Pubmaster acquisition.
Our business model continues to deliver growth in revenues and profits.
Helping retailers build better businesses is at the core of everything we do and plays a central role in achieving organic growth by maximising the overall profitability of every pub whilst optimising our share of the available profit.
The Shine Awards In the last financial year we launched our second annual Shine awards and in May 2004 we received over 1,400 nominations across the 15 regions in our estate.
Each pub was recognised for its skills and initiative and the national winner will be announced at the grand final in January 2005.
Above is last years Shine awards winner Paul Shelton at his pub The Dog, Whittington.
He is pictured with his partner Sarah Adams and a Marie Curie Cancer Care nurse the charity that benefited from the awards.
Strategic & operational review 06 07 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com In our like-for-like original Punch estate, organic turnover growth of 2.9% led to growth in pub profit contribution of 3.9%.
This steady income growth, with improving margins, has been achieved by working in partnership with our retailers and suppliers to improve the quality of experience delivered to consumers by pubs in our estate.
We continue to seek the best calibre of entrepreneurial retailers, those who are attracted by the opportunity to run a successful small business for a relatively low cost of entry.
Over the last 12 months, we have expanded our recruitment team and improved our website, spelling out the various Giles Thorley options available to any potential retailer and ensuring we have well Chief Executive informed applicants from the start of the recruitment process.
Together with structured interviewing and local networking, these initiatives have created a talent bank of over 1,600 registered applicants seeking pubs with Punch.
Over the year some 1,800 retailers have participated in our award winning training programmes.
Our approach to training is to focus on those issues that make the biggest financial impact such as financial awareness, legal compliance and growing customer footfall, and then to follow up with further involvement at key stages in the evolution of the pub, such as WE ARE DETERMINED following investment.
We continue to develop our training programmes and this year have been recognised by the National InnKeeper Training TO CONTINUE OUR Awards NITAs at which we won Best Area Manager Business Relationship Manager Training Award and Best Development Programme in a Non Managed Estate for our retailer facing Ex!Factor course.
One of the Punch retailers was also awarded Best Licensee Trainer of the Year.
STRATEGY Consumers in Punch pubs are offered a wider choice of drink products than ever before, with over 250 draught ales and lagers and over 950 non-beer product lines available to our retailers.
We sold 162 different cask ales during the year and our Finest Cask scheme sourced ales from 35 different brewers.
Integration with Pubmaster enabled us to renegotiate FOR key supply contracts with three major brewers and most regionals, widening choice and further consolidating the position of Carling and Stella Artois as the number one standard and premium lagers respectively in our estate.
Consequently beer margin in the original Punch estate rose by 5% in the year.
GROWTH Non beer sales continue to grow with margin up 9% in the year in the original Punch estate.
Whilst growth in ready-to-drink flavoured alcoholic beverages has slowed, cider sales have shown strong growth and our extensive range of wines and spirits was successfully relaunched through our Connect to Wine brochure and enhanced wine range.
Rent in the original Punch estate rose by 6% in the year, with the two key drivers being our new lease agreements and investment.
We now have 1,557 pubs on the Punch Growth Lease, an increase of 209 during the year, and our biggest single lease agreement.
In May 2004, we launched a new Retailer Agreement, an evolution of the Growth Lease which permits more flexibility to reflect a retailers particular business needs.
The Retailer Agreement has also received a crystal mark from the Plain English Society.
In the first three months since its launch, 74 retailers have taken the long term version of the Retailer Agreement.
Our investment programme continues to drive business growth for ourselves and the retailer.
During the year we invested over 35m in 580 development schemes, including 74 in the Pubmaster estate.
We continue to see excellent opportunities to use investment to enhance our estate and Partnership with retailers Punch prides itself on giving the retailer the very best achieve high returns.
support through their Business Relationship Manager and award winning training.
In the last year we have held some 6,500 training days for our retailers covering a wide range of issues from legal and financial awareness to how to increase customer throughput in all the pubs across the Punch estate.
In the next financial year we will build upon the solid training foundation we have in place and keep Punch as first choice for anyone interested in running their own pub business.
Strategic & operational review 08 09 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Machine income was affected this year by increased competition, especially from new FOBT fixed odds betting terminal machines in licensed betting shops, and underlying growth was slow.
Nevertheless the transfer of retailers onto machine share agreements continued to drive our income stream which increased by 13% in the original Punch estate, where 64% of retailers are now on machine share contracts Pubmaster 74%.
Corporate responsibility Our stance in the case of all regulatory issues is to work closely with the rest of the industry and with our retailers to fully represent their views and then to assist in the implementation of new regulations.
Our programme of regional and national retailer forums provides an invaluable medium to discuss critical business issues and formulate company strategies.
Topics covered recently have included smoking, public disorder, licensing reform, and the Disability Discrimination Act.
In all of these areas, we have been working closely with our retailers to ensure that they and we are fully prepared for the challenges and opportunities that reform presents, and that our corporate action fully represents retailer views.
Through our memberships of the British Beer and Pub Association, Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers and the All Party Parliamentary WE BELIEVE THAT IT IS Beer Group, we work hard to represent the interests of our retailers and that of the industry as a whole.
OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO Punch Group is a signatory to the Portman Group code of practice promoting responsible drinking and we encourage the responsible sale PROTECT THE SUCCESS of alcohol by our retailers.
Although the operators of licensed premises are responsible for the conduct in their pubs, it is important not to forget the need for education to tackle some of the countrys social issues.
AND ENDURING NATURE We have been involved in the process of licensing reform for a number of OF THE BRITISH PUB years and we believe licensing reform represents a considerable opportunity to tailor individual opening hours to suit local communities.
We have been working hard to prepare our outlets for the new regime.
We are making good progress to complete floor plans for all of our premises and we are also able to assist in the production of operating plans for each outlet.
The Governments proposals to restrict smoking in public places were published on 16 November 2004 and reflect a general market trend towards creating more smoke free environments.
The Government plans to reduce the number of adult smokers, from 27% now to 18% by the time the proposed ban is introduced in four years time, and we believe achieving these targets will make it much easier for us to implement changes in our estate.
We also welcome the fact that we have four years to introduce the change and that the proposals provide some flexibility for retailers.
However, many will still face a hard and restrictive choice as the proposal will cause distortion of the market.
To this end, we will be looking to work with the Government through the consultation process to see if there is an opportunity for the segregation of smoking and non-smoking areas in local community and rural pubs, thus protecting those businesses which form the hub of most communities.
We will also continue to work positively with our retailers to introduce changes in support of their businesses and through trade bodies such as the British Beer and Pub Association: our aim is to devise effective solutions that satisfy the needs of all our customers.
Responsibility and transparency Many of our pubs are at the centre of their local communities, and we are very aware of our responsibilities in this area.
We participate very actively in national and local initiatives to promote socially responsible behaviour and have implemented, in partnership with our retailers, various programmes of activity in the community.
Strategic & operational review 10 11 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Trade and Industry Select Committee inquiry We have cooperated fully with the Select Committee inquiry which has heard from Punch and from others clear evidence to show that our business model creates value for retailers, consumers and shareholders alike.
Our relationship with our retailers is critical to our success and we work hard to help retailers succeed in building strong, profitable and growing businesses.
We operate within a framework that provides a fair opportunity for all and in the vast majority of cases we work well in partnership with our retailers.
Acquisitions and disposals On 1 December 2003 the 1.2bn acquisition of Pubmaster was completed.
SYNERGY BENEFITS ARE The Pubmaster estate comprised 3,115 local community pubs with a complementary geographical fit, giving the combined Punch estate true nationwide coverage.
The integration of Pubmaster was completed by the transfer of systems EXPECTED and infrastructure to Punch in May 2004, and the closure of all Pubmaster offices.
The integration is already delivering material benefits from support cost savings and from renegotiated supply deals.
Synergy benefits are now expected to exceed the forecast 10m per annum, with a growing benefit from supply and improved margins.
Furthermore, the extension of our TO EXCEED investment programme into the Pubmaster estate has confirmed significant development opportunities which we can couple with the rollout of longer term Retailer Agreements over the next few years.
In addition to Pubmaster, we continue to source high quality individual 10M acquisitions and during the year completed the purchase of 80 attractive individual sites.
PER ANNUM These acquisitions are testament to Punchs ability to secure high quality assets for the right price.
We are delighted by the successful integration of Pubmaster and are confident that we can deliver further earnings enhancement from this and other future acquisitions.
During the year we sold a total of 376 pubs.
Of these, 256 were sold for net proceeds of 54m as a direct consequence of the Pubmaster acquisition, in order to remove areas of local overlap, and the unique circumstances of this sale created a loss of 12m.
A further 120 pubs were sold, mainly for alternative use, for net proceeds of 22m, in line with book value.
Finance structure and accounting issues In November 2003 we completed the restructure of our securitised debt by merging Punch Funding II into an enlarged Punch Taverns Finance structure with total securitised debt of 1,825m.
This process was successful in releasing 265m of additional cash and in streamlining the covenant structure.
Following the acquisition of Pubmaster our gross debt has been increased to 2,800m net of cash collateralised loans of which 2,787m is securitised, at fixed interest rates averaging 7.1%.
Net debt, taking account of cash in the business, is 2,635m.
Interest cover in the year increased to 2.0 times, and further agreed debt facilities of over 250m were unused at year end.
The debt restructure and acquisition of Pubmaster gave rise to exceptional costs of 23.1m in the year 19.0m net of tax.
The largest item was the exceptional loss on disposal of property of 12m, referred to above.
Pubmaster integration, redundancy and related costs totalled 8.2m.
WE ARE As part of our policy to revalue all pubs over a five year period, 877 pubs were revalued in the year giving rise to an increase over book value of 85m 20%.
This has been accounted for in reserves.
The overall tax charge for the year of 30.8m represented 23% of pre-tax DELIGHTED profit, or 22% on a pre-exceptionals basis, as we continue to benefit from prior year losses.
However, as these losses are used up, our tax charge is WITH THE increasing 2003: 14%, slowing our growth in reported earnings.
Management Following the appointment to the Board of Adrian Fawcett Chief Operating Officer on 15 January 2004, the Board has been further strengthened by QUALITY the appointment of Jonathan Paveley Commercial Director in September 2004.
Also in September 2004 we welcomed as Non-executive Directors Ian Fraser, currently Chief Operating Officer of Orange UK, and Martin OF THE CORE Glenn, currently President of Pepsicos interests in UK and Ireland.
INNSPIRED PUBS Cornel Riklin, Texas Pacific Groups TPG representative on the Board, resigned in December 2003, following the sale by TPG of their interest in Punch.
Marc Jonas, one of the founder members of Punch, left the Board in September 2004.
The Board would like to thank both Cornel and Marc for their valuable contribution to the Group.
Acquisition of InnSpired On 10 September 2004 we completed the acquisition of InnSpired Group Ltd, adding a further 1,064 pubs to the estate.
This estate further enhances the Groups geographical coverage and strengthens our presence in the South and South West in particular.
We are delighted with the quality of the core pubs within the estate and the significant investment opportunity that InnSpired offers.
The estate is already delivering good returns and has attractive growth potential for the future.
However, it has always been our intention to sell on a proportion of the estate which doesnt meet Punchs criteria and we are currently reviewing the InnSpired portfolio to identify those outlets that we wish to retain.
Once this exercise has been completed, we plan to integrate the retained outlets into the Punch estate and anticipate the exercise will be completed no later than Spring 2005.
On 21 October 2004 we agreed to redeem fixed rate notes within the InnSpired securitisation structure and announced plans to redeem the whole structure in November 2004.
The securitised finance of 239m will be replaced in the first instance by short term borrowing facilities, which will increase our flexibility to consider options for the estate.
Future prospects and outlook The market outlook continues to be positive and current trading is following established trends.
Both of our recent acquisitions are performing well and we continue to see good opportunities for further acquisitions and property based transactions to enhance value.
The community pub holds a unique and strong position in the social fabric of the UK and we believe that by working closely with our retailers and focusing on investment and training it will continue to do so.
