8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WATER AND SEWERAGE Severn Trent Water achieved another good performance in 2003 2004 building on the strong foundations we have put down in previous years.
We remain well positioned to outperform our regulatory contract for the period 2000 to 2005.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation Turnover and exceptional items up 3.8% at 956.7 million 337.9 million Goodwill amortisation 1.3 million and exceptional profits of 19.8 million.
Performance our sewage treatment works and a range of customer service In 2003 2004 turnover from water and sewerage services increased improvements such as sewer flooding.
We continued to deliver by 4.2% to 956.7 million.
Contributing to this rise in turnover were efficiencies against our investment programme of approximately the price increases resulting from the IDoK of December 2002, 2 billion for the 5 year period.
The programme is on track to deliver in which Ofwat allowed our request to raise prices by 2.1% above average capex efficiencies of around 5% as measured against the inflation from April 2003.
The IDoK increase benefited turnover by Retail Prices Index, or 12% against the Construction Output some 19 million.
In addition, increased consumption by metered Price Index.
customers during the dry hot Summer is estimated to have added some 2.5 million to turnover in the year.
Profit from the sale of fixed assets was 19.8 million 6.7 million, arising from the sale of land and property.
In previous years the Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional profit from the sale of fixed assets has been included within and items was up 3.8% to 337.9 million.
Goodwill amortisation was has therefore reduced the operating costs of Severn Trent Water.
In 1.3 million 0.1 million, and profit before interest and tax, this year, as the profit from the sale of fixed assets is significantly excluding exceptional items, was 336.6 million 325.4 million.
larger than last year, the continuance of this treatment would unduly Including an exceptional profit of 19.8 million from the sales of flatter the year-on-year trends for operating costs.
Accordingly, land and property, profit before interest and tax was 356.4 million operating costs as set out above have been stated after excluding 325.4 million.
Given its magnitude, the profit from the sale of any benefit from fixed asset disposals for all years.
fixed assets of 6.7 million was not treated as exceptional in 2002 2003.
There was an additional pension charge net of The 2005-2010 price review amounts allocated to own work capitalised of 1.8 million for water A critical activity in 2003 2004 was the preparation of our strategic and sewerage to reflect the valuation of pension schemes see business plan for AMP4, Ofwats fourth asset management plan Financial Review Pensions.
since privatisation, which covers investment and prices for the period 2005-2010.
Outperforming the regulatory contract Our programme for delivering gross operating cost efficiencies, In drawing up our business plan, we have had to balance often in line with Ofwats AMP3 targets for 2000-2005, continued to conflicting pressures and expectations on price levels and investor make good progress in 2003 2004.
Direct operating costs in returns: environmental and customer service improvements: 2003 2004 excluding corporate management charges of Severn efficiency and operational risk.
With this in mind, our main strategic Trent Water were 378.3 million, a reduction in real terms of 0.3 objectives for 2005-2010 relate to: securing services advances million or 0.1%.
Excluding the impact of inflation, gross operating already achieved: further ensuring the reliability of water supply: cost efficiencies in 2003 2004 amounted to 8.1 million although meeting new obligations on drinking water quality and the these efficiencies were offset by cost pressures of 7.8 million.
At 31 environment: satisfying key customer service concerns: and March 2004, total AMP3 gross operating cost efficiencies amounted providing an attractive investment opportunity.
Ofwat will make an to approximately 69 million, some 17 million more than our interim determination on AMP4 in August 2004, and a final Ofwat target.
However, these cost efficiencies have been offset by determination in December.
Any new price limits will come into new cost pressures amounting to around 60 million.
Total AMP3 effect from April 2005. gross operating efficiencies for AMP3 are expected to reach 75 million in 2004 2005, though again they will be offset by cost Water supply pressures that, excluding the expected additional pension charge in Low Autumn rainfall in 2003 meant that the year was one of the 2004 2005 see Financial Review Pensions, are expected to be of driest on record.
As a result some of our reservoirs were less than a broadly similar amount.
60% full at the start of winter, at least a third behind normal levels.
However, by using measures like taking water from the river In 2003 2004 we invested approximately 442 million in Severn to supply Birmingham, we maintained water supply to programmes to improve drinking water quality, the effluent from all our customers.
9 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CASE STUDY Each year Ofwat publishes a report Indeed we improved on it in on the levels of service provided by 2003 2004.
OUTPERFORMING OUR SECTOR ON SERVICE water companies to their customers.
Two IT projects implemented in The report includes an Overall AND QUALITY 2003 2004 contributed to improved Performance Assessment OPA efficiency and customer service.
which compares companies Ofwats 2002 2003 Overall Performance The first uses mobile technology performance on measures like water to improve the efficiency of Severn Assessment showed Severn Trent Water was supply, sewerage services, customer Trents mobile workforce, by service and environmental impact.
the UKs top-performing water and sewerage delivering information such as job It is thus an extremely important details, location maps, biodiversity company.
In 2003 2004 we have maintained, and gauge of the quality of service that plans, and health and safety improved, the quality of our service to customers.
information direct to their laptop The most recent OPA was published computer.
in March 2004, and evaluated The second Integrated Customer companies performance in Experience or ICE improves 2002 2003.
We were delighted that customers experience when they the assessment showed Severn phone our operations call centre.
Trent Water to be the UKs topInformation from different systems performing water and sewerage is presented to customer service company, once our revised leakage agents in a single, intuitive format, targets had been taken into account.
enabling them to complete customer Although the assessment covers requests more quickly and efficiently.
the previous year, we are confident that we maintained the quality and efficiency of the service we deliver.
The longer-term impact of climate change means that dry years Environment and community such as 2003 are likely to become more frequent, and our strategic Corporate responsibility is firmly embedded in Severn Trents planning for the future takes account of this.
business, and we recognise that our work has a significant impact on the environment and communities of the Midlands.
We support In July 2003, we changed the way we collected data on water hundreds of projects across the region, all with a sustainability consumption by our customers: based on this and other new agenda and, following the launch of our Biodiversity Action Plan information we recalibrated our total leakage on the companys in 1999, we have conducted rigorous ecological assessments of and customers pipes to 549 Ml d for 2002 2003.
We worked with around 1,800 sites.
Ofwat to establish new leakage targets for March 2005 and we have started to put in place improved monitoring systems to measure In 2003 2004 our work on two projects Aston Hall, and the Meriden losses from trunk mains and service reservoirs.
to Highters Heath trunk main was recognised when we won first and second place at the Green Apple Environment Awards, which promote Competition and commercial customers environmental best practice amongst companies, councils and The Water Act 2003, which came into force in November, set a communities.
The Aston Hall project was also recognised at the framework for introducing competition in the water industry.
Ofwat Chartered Institute of Water and Environmental Management awards.
is currently working with the water industry to determine the detailed rules for the new competition regime, which will apply to Energy management is an important aspect of our commitment to business customers using more than 50 mega litres of water a year environmental leadership.
Severn Trent Water already has combined just under 300 businesses in our region.
heat and power CHP units on sewage digesters at seven sites, and in 2003 2004 we embarked on a 16 million programme that will We look forward to the arrival of competition in 2005, and we are enable us to generate 27 megawatts of power, more than 13% of confident that we can offer an excellent product range and account our energy needs, through new CHP units.
In terms of our management to business customers inside or outside our region.
community involvement, much work is targeted at education.
In 2003, At the same time, we remain equally focused on serving these we introduced our Wet Water Wizard to Midlands schoolchildren.
customers whether domestic or commercial that are not affected This cartoon character is designed to teach children about the water by the new competition rules.
In advance of the new competition cycle and the importance of valuing water.
The initiative includes framework, Severn Trent Water already supplies value-added DVDs, videos, and comics for schoolchildren, and links to the services and products to a number of household names.
For national curriculum in science and geography.
example, confectioner Thorntons installed our Data Monitor product to track water supply used and effluent produced, in an effort to Outlook minimise resource use and maximise efficiency.
Experts on our The AMP4 pricing review is enormously important to the outlook for Waste Guardian team helped brewer Carlsberg to use carbon Severn Trent Water.
As we await its outcome, we are confident that dioxide, a natural by-product of brewing, to correct pH levels in the regulators understand that Severn Trent has achieved significant caustic wash water, keeping its effluent discharges within efficiencies in its work but that further investment is nevertheless still environmental consent limits.
It is widely understood that prices for customers will have to rise, but the average household water bill in the Midlands will still be Severn Trent Utility Services continues to provide asset and among the best value in the country.
In addition, the price increases customer management solutions to companies in the utility, rail and we have asked for will enable us to deliver clear benefits to our transportation, retail and financial services sectors.
In 2003 2004 customers, as well as further environmental improvements.
Our it won the Business Innovation award at the annual Utility Industry record against the current AMP3 regulatory contract and on Ofwats Achievement Awards.
Our Severn Trent Retail Services business, was Overall Performance Assessment, combined with the opportunities created to offer products such as gas, electricity, insurance and that competition will create, gives us a good platform telecommunications services.
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS WASTE The two main stories in our Waste business in 2003 2004 were the acquisition of Hales and the way that legislation has continued to create new opportunities in all areas of the business collection, landfill and special waste.
The Hales acquisition means that Biffa is now even better placed than previously to capitalise on these new opportunities.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill Turnover up 23.9% at amortisation and exceptional items up 16.6% at 633.1 million 79.2 million Goodwill amortisation 21.3 million and exceptional costs of 10.9 million.
At the core of Biffas performance and results in 2003 2004 were the almost 50 local authority contracts.
The Biffpack packaging acquisition of Hales Waste Control, and the changes that legislation is compliance scheme is the third largest in the UK, with over 430 bringing to the UK waste industry.
The acquisition of Hales firmly members.
establishes Biffa as one of the largest integrated waste management The speedy integration of Hales made it particularly difficult to companies in the UK: the implementation of legislation is creating discern the underlying volume trend.
Despite the softness in the new business opportunities for extending local authority contracts industrial commercial market, Collection turnover in the UK and the development of integrated waste management contracts.
Performance Including the contribution of Hales, profit before interest, tax, Waste managements turnover increased by 23.9% to 633.1 goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 51.6 million, up million, benefiting from the contribution of Hales turnover.
Excluding the estimated contribution from Hales, Collections in the UK rose to 573.9 million, an increase of 25.5%: Belgian profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation was down by turnover rose by 10.4% to 59.2 million.
Biffas profit before interest, around 2%.
tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 79.2 million, up 16.6% on the previous year.
Goodwill amortisation was 21.3 In 2003 2004, with local authorities striving to meet statutory million.
There was an exceptional charge for Hales integration costs recycling targets, Biffa was able to extend several contracts with of 10.9 million.
Waste managements profit before interest and tax additional services.
For example, Stratford-upon-Avon district council was 47.0 million 51.3 million.
There was also an additional extended its contract with Biffa to cover its five-year organic waste pension charge of 1.8 million for waste management to reflect the recycling scheme.
Other new or extended local authority contracts valuation of pension schemes see Financial Review Pensions.
included West Berkshire district council, Tandridge, Woking and Forest of Dean.
On 19 June 2003 Biffa acquired Hales from RMC UK Limited for approximately 126 million and paid approximately 15 million Success in gaining important new contracts on the exclusive of VAT to ING to purchase vehicles and equipment used industrial commercial side continued, capitalising on Biffas national in the Hales business, being a total consideration of approximately coverage of depots and supporting IT infrastructure.
Following the 141 million excluding transaction costs.
Biffa targeted synergies creation of a new pre-treatment division in 2002 2003, Biffa now of around 7.5 million per annum in terms of run rate from the has 23 pre-treatment facilities nationwide.
Strategic partnerships are integration of Hales.
The integration process has gone well and is extremely important in this area of the business, and in July 2003 now close to completion.
In 2003 2004, Hales contributed including Biffa and Kappa Paper Recycling entered into an arrangement under synergies an estimated 10.4m to waste managements profit which more than 20,000 tonnes of waste paper a year is expected before interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
to be collected and processed.
Biffa is also continuing to work with SCA on recycling: and with EMR on the disposal of electrical Excluding the impact of acquisitions Hales 10.4 million, other appliances under the WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic acquisitions of 0.2 million and of increased pension charges, Equipment Directive.
Waste managements profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was up by 3.7% compared to last year.
The Landfill results for the year include the costs of settling legal disputes and Although legislation and increases in landfill tax are likely to drive insurance credits of a broadly similar scale.
These items have been demand for alternative methods of disposal in the future, landfill allocated to UK central costs so as to provide more comparable remains the primary waste disposal route in the UK.
Biffa currently figures, year-on-year, for the three UK business units of Collection, operates 34 landfill sites, and it has been recommended for the Landfill and Special Waste.
ISO14001 environmental management accreditation for its landfill Collection division.
Landfill turnover in the UK was up 15.2% to 163.1 million Biffas Collection division works with around 90,000 in 2003 2004.
Excluding the estimated impact of Hales, landfill industrial commercial customers across the UK, and operates volumes, were up by around 3% and unit revenues were up 1%.
11 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CASE STUDY June 2003 saw Biffa acquire to be integrated, and, crucially, Hales Waste Control and RMC a common IT system had to be HALES ACQUISITION STRENGTHENS BIFFAS Environmental Services, in a 141 set up.
million deal that established Biffa as MARKET LEADERSHIP The acquisition of Hales gives one of the largest integrated waste Biffa greatly increased coverage in management companies in the UK.
In buying Hales in June 2003, Biffa has London and East Anglia, enabling it Hales was one of the top 10 waste to offer better geographical coverage strengthened its geographical coverage, companies in the UK, with some to customers with multiple sites.
its product range and its customer base.
27,000 industrial commercial It also greatly increases Biffas customers, 38 operating depots, operational landfill void in the 8 operational landfill sites, and south of England.
In addition, the 5 transfer stations.
Its Waste-Safe acquisition is delivering important service for small amounts of cost efficiencies through improved special waste is well known in the fleet utilisation.
It also enhances the marketplace, and complements combined companys ability to Biffas existing services for bulk capitalise on new market liquid waste.
With around 1,000 employees and 450 industrial commercial collection vehicles, the Hales integration was a substantial project.
Employee and Union consultations had to be undertaken, collection depots and landfill sites had to integrated into the Biffa system: sales forces had Landfills profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation was including a recycling centre at Bursom and an anaerobic digester up 17.6% to 34.0 million, including the Hales contribution: and up plant for organic waste at Wanlip are almost complete.
In by around 7% if that contribution is excluded.
September, Biffa took over the management of Leicesters community recycling centres, and in February 2004, it began One important component of the divisions work in the year was weekly waste and recycling collections from 117,000 households.
further preparation for provisions of the Landfill Directive from July 2004 co-disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste will be Community and environment banned.
However, the acceptance criteria for hazardous waste landfill Biffa donates its landfill tax credits to community and environment sites will not be determined until next year and the identification projects through the Biffaward fund.
Changes to the Landfill Tax processes for the pre-treatment of waste-streams that will no longer Credit Scheme by the government in 2003 have reduced the scope be able to go directly to landfill is underway.
We also continued the of Biffawards contributions to projects and the type of projects it process of obtaining new permits for our sites under the Integrated can fund: however, almost 7.5 million was given to community and Pollution Prevention and Control regime.
Two of Biffas composting sites Etwall in Derbyshire and Poplars in In terms of the environment, biodiversity is at the heart of Biffas Staffordshire received certification to the BSI PAS 100 standard work on the 160 sites for which it has stewardship.
Following the during the year making Biffa the only compost producer in the UK publication of a Biodiversity Action Plan in 2002 2003, a rigorous to have gained this certification at two separate sites.
audit of all Biffas landholdings is underway and scheduled for completion by summer 2005.
Special Waste The Special Waste divisions turnover increased by 11.6% to Belgium 50.2 million in 2003 2004.
Profit before interest, tax and goodwill Biffa has 11 operational facilities in Belgium, comprising depots for amortisation for the division was 7.0 million: excluding the estimated industrial, commercial and municipal services, a special waste impact of Hales, this figure was up by around 7% on the previous year.
treatment centre and two landfill sites.
Belgiums waste disposal legislation and recycling culture is well in advance of that in the UK.
With its range of products and technologies for handling special waste, Our experience in this market means we are well equipped to take the division is well placed to exploit the opportunities offered by the the opportunities offered by the UKs regulatory changes.
Landfill Directive and hazardous waste regulations.
Hales Waste-Safe service sealed, lockable containers for relatively small quantities of Biffas turnover in Belgium was up 10.4% to 59.2 million.
A change hazardous wastes is an important addition to the packaged waste in Belgian legislation means that turnover there is now reported gross range of services, which also includes Hazpak and Backtrack.
Another of the recovery for environmental taxes making it consistent with the important addition to our special waste facilities is SWaRF Secure UK, so this has boosted turnover figures for the year.
Without the Waste and Recycling Facility, a dedicated secure facility for sensitive effect of that change, turnover would have been up by about 6%.
wastes, such as confidential materials or product recalls.
Profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation in Belgium was 3.2 million.
Biffas power generation activity is a key component of the Special Waste division.
In 2003 2004 we boosted our capacity to generate Outlook power from landfill gas to around 90 MW in the UK.
Biffas market position comprising strengths in collection, landfill and special waste continues to provide a sound platform Integrated municipal contracts for Biffas future development and performance.
Legislation and In the previous financial year, Biffa won a 300 million integrated increases in landfill tax will continue to drive demand for alternative waste contract with Leicester City Council, to manage all its waste methods of waste disposal in the UK.
Biffas experience in Belgium collection and disposal facilities.
Development and implementation means we are well placed to capitalise on these opportunities, as do of the contract progressed well in 2003 2004 new facilities our recognised high standards in pretreatment and recycling.
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS THE SERVICES GROUP Our US and other international businesses delivered good results in 2003 2004, often in difficult market conditions.
Strong management had a positive impact on margins and profits, and the high levels of innovation and service achieved in different parts of this group were recognised through prestigious industry awards and accolades.
Profit before interest, tax and Turnover down 1.1% at goodwill amortisation up 13.2% at 381.2 million 38.7 million Goodwill amortisation of 7.2 million Performance STLs market leadership is not just size-related: it also takes the form Severn Trent Services turnover decreased by 1.1% to 381.2 million of being at the forefront of emerging areas in contaminant testing.
in 2003 2004, with a little under 80% arising in the US.
Excluding For example, in 2003 2004 it became one of the first commercial the impact of the exchange rates, turnover increased by around 6%.
laboratories to offer analytical techniques to test for PBDEs.
These chemicals are used as flame retardants in, for example, furniture Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional and textiles, but have recently been recognised as being items was 38.7 million, up 13.2%: excluding the effect of exchange environmental contaminants of worldwide concern.
rates, this figure increased by around 16% on the previous year.
In addition, through the acquisitions of two US companies P&K Goodwill amortisation for the Services Group was 7.2 million Microbiology Services Inc P&K and Aerotech Laboratories Inc STL 8.5 million.
Profit before interest and tax was 31.5 million is now in a leadership position in the expanding indoor air quality loss of 21.1 million.
and mould-testing market see Case Study.
SEVERN TRENT LABORATORIES Acquisitions Turnover in Laboratories, the largest business within Services, was Two important acquisitions, in 2003 and 2004, framed the down 1.0% to 170.1 million, but excluding the impact of exchange financial year.
In April 2003 STL acquired P&K Microbiology rates turnover increased by around 7%.
Turnover in the US in US$ Services, a microbiology and mycology testing business recognised was up by around 8% and turnover in the UK was up by around as a pioneer in mould testing.
A little over 80% of Laboratories turnover arose in the US.
Aerotech Laboratories Inc Aerotech, another leader in this field, with additional expertise in food testing and industrial hygiene.
The US performance took place against a background of difficult markets for example, federal budget deficits have led to cutbacks Targeted acquisitions have been a key part of STLs strategy for in the United States Environmental Protection Agency funding.
growing its business, and will continue to be so.
As with P&K and Nevertheless, excluding the impact of exchange rates, the Aerotech, STLs acquisition strategy is focused on successful, Laboratories business has continued to grow turnover.
profitable businesses that can add new testing capabilities or geographical coverage.
Leading the market Severn Trent Laboratories expanded its geographical reach in Outlook 2003 2004, opening new service centres in five US states Florida, Whilst economic conditions in the US are likely to remain difficult, Indiana, New Jersey, Kansas and Arizona.
Its operations now comprise there are a number of positive market opportunities.
Emerging 31 laboratories and 21 service centres in the US, 4 laboratories and market areas such as indoor air quality and mould, food hygiene, 1 service centre in the UK, and a large fleet of mobile laboratories.
testing for perchlorates, sediments and vapour intrusion all provide good opportunities for profitable growth.
On the UK side of the Underlining STLs leading service, Shell Oil Products recognized STL business, EU legislation such as the Water Framework Directive, as the Outstanding Contracting Firm of 2003.
Karen Petryna, P. E. the Groundwater Directive, and the Landfill Directive is also and Senior Environmental Engineer of Shell Oil Products US said, creating opportunities.
In the last year, STL has done a fantastic job providing great customer service for us while getting up to speed with our internal In addition, STLs wide spectrum of technical expertise, and procedures and requirements, taking over a large volume of work in reputation for excellent customer service, means we are well Northern California, and offering project and agency specific positioned to win both public and private-sector contracts whether support, expertise, documentation, and protocol.
STL is a very in emerging markets or existing ones.
13 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CASE STUDY Indoor Air Quality IAQ is a major growing IAQ market, the acquisition market opportunity in the US and also accomplishes other important NEW MARKETS IN THE US elsewhere.
concern that mould and toxic mould First, food microbiology is another Targeted acquisitions have extended STLs could be linked to sick building emerging market, and represents syndrome, and this is creating capabilities in key emerging markets.
an area of synergy to STLs existing major legal and financial problems testing range.
Second, it closes a for property owners and insurers.
gap in STLs western US coverage.
In April 2003, Severn Trent Phoenix, Arizona is one of the Laboratories put itself at the fastest-growing cities in the US, vanguard of this market when it and this growth is promoting acquired P&K Microbiology Services environmental work relating to Inc, a business whose staff have infrastructure development.
The worked on many high-profile mouldopportunities for STL thus go far testing cases in the US.
beyond the market potential of IAQ.
Eleven months later, Severn Trent also acquired Aerotech Laboratories in Arizona, the USs largest commercial Indoor Air Quality laboratory.
Aerotechs analytical services include mould testing, food microbiology, industrial hygiene and bioterrorism response analysis.
As well as giving STL a huge presence in the valuable and SEVERN TRENT SERVICES Turnover in 2003 2004 grew 1.7%, but excluding the impact of Severn Trent Services improved its performance, before the impact exchange rates, turnover was up by around 7%.
In previous years, work was done to build the Severn Trent brand in the US and worldwide, and these efforts are Contract Operations delivered organic revenue growth of around now starting to deliver results.
Contract Operations won 32 new contracts: notable among them was significant new business with the Florida Government In addition, the restructuring programme initiated in 2002 2003 has Utilities Authority.
led to a more focused management approach, and tighter controls on costs.
This in turn has helped to increase margins.
In contrast, budget deficits are a negative backdrop for the Pipeline Services business, providing minimal support for infrastructure Water Purification projects.
However, last years restructuring programme and a The Water Purification division was one of the main objects of last strategy of cutting costs and focusing on the core business of repair, years restructuring programme, and the benefits are visible.
Cost rehabilitation and flow metering work has borne fruit.
reductions have brought an improvement in margins: and a new integrated IT system has led to opportunities for greater operational Another positive note was a new contract with the City of St Louis, efficiency, purchasing synergies, and better inventory management Missouri, which will continue into 2005.
This is the second large control.
contract won with this City exhibiting the strength of our relationship.
Turnover decreased by 5.3% to 82.9 million, but excluding the Our Metering Services business achieved good growth in 2003 2004. impact of exchange rates, turnover was up by around 2%.
The business landed a large meter contract in Qatar and its new global meter is being introduced in the Middle East and Europe, Despite difficult markets, Water Purification continued to launch which will begin to provide additional benefits in the coming year.
new products and services, and these had a positive impact on results.
Among the new technologies were two new introductions Severn Trent Water International STWI provides a range of to the ClorTec product line, and upgrades of the instrumentation management and consultancy services in Europe and the developing product range.
Contracts include a public-private partnership to operate water and wastewater services in Umbria begun in 2002 2003 : Of continuing importance was the partnership with Bayer AG on and longstanding public-private partnerships with the Flemish Severn Trents Sorb33 system for removing arsenic from drinking government in Belgium Aquafin, and in Portugal with the joint water.
This is now being piloted at 25 sites in the US.
The worldwide Management Services and Consultancy business had key contracts in Russia, the Ukraine Severn Trent Services Eclox Water Test Kit has been chosen to and Guyana.
Management support and training was provided in receive the prestigious Queens Award for Innovation.
A special version many developing countries, particularly in Africa in collaboration of the test kit has been developed for the British Ministry of Defence with a British government initiative and through Swedish and there are now over five hundred units in service around the world.
Operating Services In the UK, STWI achieved Preferred Bidder status for a major The Operating Services division handles operating and maintenance long-term contract with the Ministry of Defence to manage water contracts for customers in the US.
Unlike most of Severn Trent and wastewater services for sites in Northern, Eastern and South Services businesses in the US, Contract Operations saw positive Eastern England.
Negotiations of the final contract are in progress.
effects from the weak US economy, since state and local municipalities faced with budget deficits are increasingly looking Associated undertakings contributed 10.7 million 10.0 million to public-private partnerships to improve the operating efficiency of profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation to the results of water and waste treatment sites.
14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS OTHER BUSINESSES Sales in the UK, North America and Australia led to an improved performance from Severn Trents Systems group.
In Property, there was good progress on current projects.
Turnover up 9.5% at Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items 147.1 million 5.5 million exceptional provision release of 2.7 million SYSTEMS Property Total turnover for the Severn Trent Systems Group in 2003 2004 Severn Trent Property was originally set up to exploit the was 63.6 million, up 3.8% on the previous year.
Profit before development potential of land surplus to Severn Trent Waters interest and tax was 5.0 million.
It also undertakes projects on sites acquired from third parties.
Aseriti supplies IT solutions and services for the private, public and utility sectors in the UK, USA and Australia.
In 2003 2004 good progress was made on virtually all current projects.
At Thorpe Park, Leeds the largest out-of-town office park in In the UK it won a substantial contract to supply software and the north of England further buildings were completed for WS Atkins expertise to utility infrastructure provider Core Utility Solutions Ltd. plc, Boxwood plc and the University of Leeds.
Major infrastructure, It has managed and implemented substantial projects for Severn which will give direct access onto the M1 motorway, is now completed.
Trent Water and Severn Trent Plc.
These included an IT solution to transfer information on the regions 62,000 mile pipe network from At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, planning permission paper maps onto mobile computers.
Its latest CIS solution was to extend the project by up to 2 million sq ft was granted during also delivered and installed to Severn Trent Water in preparation autumn 2003.
During the year, a major regional sorting hub was for competition.
Remaining undeveloped land within the first phase of the project was sold to another developer.
In the US, South Maryland Electric Co-operative one of the ten largest electric co-operatives in the US went live with CIS-Open At Warwick, work has commenced at Tournament Fields, adjacent Vision in November 2003.
CIS-Open Vision is also being used to Junction 15 of the M40.
The site has planning permission for successfully by Snohomish Public Utilities Department, following its office and business use: infrastructure, including roads and drainage, implementation in January 2003.
In Australia, the energy utility is under construction.
Citipower, based in Victoria, went live with CIS-Open Vision for 269,000 customers in September 2003.
Energy supplier ETSA, Engineering based in South Australia, went live with 765,000 customers in Charles Haswell & Partners offers consultancy services in a wide range November 2003, and energy utility Alinta went live with the new of engineering and environmental disciplines.
In 2003, two awards upgrade of CIS-Open Vision in February 2004 with 480,000 paid tribute to the companys expertise.
New Civil Engineer and the customers.
Alinta now has 99% of its retail customers on CIS-Open Association of Consulting Engineers recognised it as the top mediumVision, and uses the system to generate 8,000 bills per day.
Secondly, it was joint winner of the British Geotechnical Societys Fleming Award, for its work on design Worksuite, the work management business of the Systems Group, and construction of a section of the Dublin Port Tunnel Project.
was restructured into a standalone, wholly owned subsidiary.
Based in Houston, its market is the UK and primarily North America, where Other activity in 2003 2004 included working with Yorkshire Water it enjoys a leadership position.
The company completed major new Services as a key member of its Eastern Area Wastewater Capital sales to FPL, Enbridge and Northeast Utilities.
It also advanced its Solution Team.
It also made a major contribution to the successful large-scale deployments of its integrated office, web and wireless delivery of Severn Trent Waters capital programme.
technology at FPL, National Grid and a Scottish Power affiliate in the UK.
Charles Haswell & Partners introduced its Environmental Management System in 2003 2004 which is accredited to the ISO PROPERTY, ENGINEERING CONSULTANCY AND INSURANCE 14001:2001 standard.
Total turnover from these businesses in 2003 2004 was 83.5 million 73.0 million.
Profit before interest and tax was 3.2 Insurance million 5.5 million.
The reduction in profits reflects the result from Derwent Insurance, based in Guernsey, Severn Trents captive insurer Haswells, the Groups engineering consultancy business.
provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group companies.
