20 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF OPERATIONS David Williams, Chief Executive DELIVERING CONSISTENT GROWTH In addition to producing record sales, profits and earnings per share, we have invested significantly in expanding the business for future growth.
21 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 I am pleased to report that the Group had a very successful Regulations continued to stimulate demand, as did the year in 2004.
In addition to producing record sales, profits and increased activity in the existing housing sector driven by earnings per share, we invested significantly in expanding the various Government sponsored grants and other schemes.
The Group is the leading provider across the entire spectrum of the market and benefited from the widespread increase in Market demand and product pricing were generally more demand.
helpful in most of our main markets and countries of operation The general level of increased demand exceeded internal than in the previous year.
expectations and it may be that in addition to the more obvious Against this positive background, the trading and commercial demand drivers mentioned above, we are beginning to see the skills of the Group enabled strong underlying sales growth and effects of higher energy prices, and concern about the impact maximum benefits from the pricing environment to be on the environment of heating related energy consumption achieved.
Our focused, specialist approach to customers and within buildings, feed through to demand for insulation.
Some the markets in which we operate has enabled the Group to price inflation was evident within the insulation sector, though outperform.
this was not universal across the product range.
Overall, an excellent performance and our strong market Trading Highlights position was further reinforced.
UK and Republic of Ireland 65% of total Group sales Sales increased by 96.4m 11.9% to 907.1m The Roofing division achieved good like for like growth in sales 2003 : 810.7m.
and operating profits, supplemented by expansion from recent Like for like sales increased by 71.2m 8.8%.
During the year we began a programme of upgrading premises to enable a wider range of products to be Operating profit before goodwill amortisation of 4.8m offered to our customers and this will continue throughout the 2003 : 4.0m increased by 9.9m 18.2% to 64.1m network.
As we reported at the time of our January 2005 Trading Sales and operating profits were increased in all market Update, we believe that overall market demand rose very sectors in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
slightly in the year and that price inflation had a modest, but positive impact on performance in this sector.
The operating Like for like is defined as the business excluding the profit margin was held at the prior year level, and operating impact of acquisitions made since 1 January 2003. profits increased.
The Insulation operations again had a year of substantial The mix of business in the roofing division continued to be growth, with double digit like for like and total growth of sales biased towards repairs and maintenance, except in the and operating profits compared with prior year.
The slight Republic of Ireland where new housing accounts for a relatively decline in the operating profit margin which occurred in 2003 larger proportion of sales, reflecting the buoyant new build due to an adverse movement in product mix was reversed in sector throughout the year.
2004 and the net operating margin for the year was ahead of that in both 2002 and 2003.
This is despite continued sluggish Commercial Interiors had an excellent performance across the demand from the industrial insulation market, where margins whole division, with a like for like double digit increase in sales have traditionally been slightly higher than from the building and operating profits.
Throughout 2004 we saw growing demand for specialist Across the building sector demand for thermal and acoustic interior products for both the renovation of existing properties, insulation products for newbuild and renovation applications, and new construction in a wide range of non-residential ranging from housing upgrading right through to major projects buildings.
These include schools, hospitals, sports and leisure such as new hospitals, increased significantly throughout the facilities, offices, retail developments, hotels, public sector year.
The tighter regulatory standards within the Building buildings, factories and warehouse units.
22 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF OPERATIONS continued The specific premium office sector began to recover after two Sales increased by 6.4% in Euros, and a total of five new sites years of sharply reduced demand.
Improvements to our were added during the year, one of which was acquired and product range for office fit out, and the development and four brownfield openings.
Three of the new brownfield sites are introduction of new products for specific related markets in Austria, where a local opportunity arose to establish a enabled the operating margin and operating profits to double position.
As these branches are managed within the German in 2004 over prior year in this specific sector.
management structure, they will continue to be reported within the German results.
The core business, which is the leading supplier of interior Particular emphasis was placed on the management of pricing products to the wider non-residential buildings market invested and improving operational efficiencies within the German in additional sales resources.
We also successfully re-branded business throughout the year.
As a result, and despite the and re-launched the business to provide a simpler, more one-off charges associated with the new branch openings, effective offering to customers.
These initiatives were well costs were reduced as a proportion of sales, and the gross received and the division achieved excellent growth.
The operating profit margin was In Safety and Construction Products, significant like for like increased and operating profits were substantially up on prior sales growth and a strong improvement in the operating margin year.
An excellent performance in a difficult market.
produced operating profits more than double that of the prior In France, we continued to make solid progress with sales up year.
This excellent organic growth was supplemented by the 25.9% in total in Euros, of which 18.4% was like for like.
Price addition of three newly acquired trading sites.
The continued inflation on a number of products had a positive impact on development and expansion of this division is enabling us to both sales and margins.
broaden our offering whilst remaining highly focused on the supply of specialist products to the construction and related Growth was achieved in insulation, commercial interiors and in markets.
We continue to expand the range by offering more specialist products and the sales of air The use of catalogue and internet trading are growing features handling and forced ventilation systems which are often of our marketing approach in this division.
installed at the same time as our commercial insulation products, grew strongly.
We have increased the dedicated Mainland Europe 31% of total Group sales sales resources aimed at this market sector.
Overall in Mainland Europe, sales grew by 12.4% in local Operating profits increased significantly though the operating currencies, and by 39.4m 10.0% in Sterling to 433.6m margin was reduced compared with 2003 due to increased 2003 : 394.2m.
The local currency like for like sales costs associated with the absorption of the loss-making growth was 10.5%.
At the year end we had added 4 On a country by country basis, we believe this represents new additional branches in France, three of which were market-beating performance, reflecting continued growth of acquired.
our market position and market share.
Sales in Benelux were increased by 11.0% in Euros, on a like Operating profits pre goodwill amortisation increased by for like basis, despite very depressed market conditions across 43.0% in local currencies and by 40.0% in Sterling, up 4.5m the building and construction sector.
The operating profit declined, due to increased costs partly Like for like sales growth including the impact of newly opened associated with changes to the branch structure, including the brownfield trading sites, was achieved in all countries in which opening of a new site in Belgium, and a reduction in the gross we operate in Mainland Europe, and this was supplemented by margin.
small bolt-on acquisitions, enabling greater market penetration In Poland, sales in local currency on a like for like basis and improved customer service.
increased by 42.5%, in a market which was considerably stronger than prior year in terms of both the volume of demand In Germany, a modest decline in the volume demand from the and price levels.
Four new branches were opened during the construction sector was offset by increased product prices, year as part of our continuing expansion programme.
leaving the overall market value about the same as in 2003.
23 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Having previously reported a small operating profit in the first The additional sites 33 gained and retained through the half of 2004 for the first time in a six month period, profits acquisition programme have enabled the Group to reach new improved progressively into the second half, with 2004 customers, extend our product offering to existing and new therefore marking our first full year with a positive operating customers, and to further improve our standards of service to profit in Poland.
all customers thereby continuing the process of strengthening the Company going forward.
USA 4% of total Group sales In the USA, whilst demand from the Petrochem sector was People depressed, conditions in the commercial market strengthened, I am proud to be part of such a professional and committed and sales grew by 1% on a like for like basis in Dollars.
team of people: throughout our businesses, regardless of Management dealt well with these conditions, reducing costs country or market sector, our people are acknowledged as the and achieving an increase in the gross margin.
The margin best in their particular field, with particular focus on meeting improvement was partly influenced by the significant increase their customers requirements.
This is an enormous strength of in metal prices during the year.
As a result of these actions, the the Group and I thank everyone in the business for their own operating profit margin was increased, and the operating profit effort in enabling us to produce such great results in 2004. more than doubled in Dollars an increase of 85% over 2003 in Sterling.
Summary The growth and development of the Group has been very Acquisitions extensive in the last 12 months: virtually every part of the The acquisition programme, having been deliberately Company has shown strong improvements over prior year.
fide-emphasised in 2003, was reactivated in 2004, and we Markets have been reasonably helpful, but I believe that the increased our resources to improve the depth and pace at Company has outperformed, and that our people have shown which we can conduct research, and to pursue suitable skill and tenacity in exploiting those conditions.
We have strong positions in markets which I believe will During the year we successfully completed 13 acquisitions, and continue to show long term growth.
We will continue to seek these breakdown as follows: growth opportunities both organically and through acquisition, and I am confident in our ability to continue to develop and Commercial grow the Group to enhance Shareholder value.
Insulation Interiors Roofing Others UK & ROI 2 38m 4 18m 3 10m Mainland David Williams, Chief Executive Europe 4 14m Number of deals approx m sales annualised.
As the table shows, all acquisitions during the year were within our existing geographic regions and were all complementary to our existing market focus.
In all cases the acquisitions meet the strategic requirement of being suppliers of specialist products, chiefly to the building and construction industry.
I am pleased to say that the integration process is progressing well.
