10 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Review of Operations Products on the market specialty pharmaceuticals company, acquired During 2004, Paxil CR, our improved formulation the Bioglan dermatology unit of Quintiles in August of GlaxoSmithKlines Paxil, held about 6.5% of 2004.
This has more than doubled the number all new US prescriptions for SSRI antidepressants.
of sales representatives detailing Solaraze.
This share has been gradually declining through the Combined sales by both partners in 2004 were advent of new SSRI antidepressants but has been $12 million.
The transfer of rights to market largely unaffected by US generic competition for the Solaraze from Quintiles to Bradley required our older version Paxil from 2003.
GlaxoSmithKlines consent and in August we received a $5 million total sales of Paxil CR were 396 million payment from Quintiles as part of this transaction.
$725 million in 2004, up by 13% in constant Solaraze is marketed in Europe and certain other exchange rate terms.
In March 2005, the FDA territories by Shire Pharmaceuticals.
Total non-US halted US distribution of Paxil CR and another sales were $6 million in 2004.
In Australia, Shire unrelated product because of manufacturing has now filed for approval using data from a clinical problems at a GlaxoSmithKline plant in Puerto trial in patients with multiple actinic keratoses.
We have recently concluded an agreement with GlaxoSmithKline that not only provides us with In December our US marketing partner Endo a lump-sum payment of approximately $10 million Pharmaceuticals launched DepoDur, our new and an increased royalty rate on this product but injectable analgesic for the treatment of pain after also ensures that we will continue to receive royalty surgery.
We have also recently received conditional income while the product remains off the market.
approval in the UK, which will be used as the basis for seeking approval throughout the European Xatral OD Uroxatral in the USA, our once-daily Union.
More details are in the section on page 7. version of Sanofi-Aventiss Xatral alfuzosin, is a treatment for the urinary symptoms of benign Products in late-stage development prostatic hypertrophy.
Xatral OD has been on the Foradil Certihaler is a new version of Novartis market outside the USA since April 2000 and has long-acting bronchodilator Foradil formoterol.
now largely replaced the older multidose versions We developed not only the multidose dry-powder of Xatral.
Uroxatral was launched in the USA inhaler device but also the formulation technologies in November 2003 and by the end of 2004 had that ensure dose consistency regardless of storage captured 9% of the combined prescriptions written conditions.
These technologies are also involved in for it and for its main competitor.
Xatral OD has a new collaboration with Novartis to jointly develop now been approved in Europe for a second another bronchodilator, QAB149.
Novartis filed indication, acute urinary retention, with Phase III Foradil Certihaler with the FDA and European trials ongoing for the USA.
Reported sales of all regulatory authorities in December 2002.
The FDA forms of Xatral were a281 million in 2004, up by issued a second approvable letter in December 28% in constant exchange rate terms.
2004 and Novartis is in discussions with the FDA about the conditions necessary for final approval.
Global sales of DepoCyt doubled in 2004.
Sales in The product has now been approved in ten the USA by our partner Enzon were $6.6 million, European and Latin American countries.
Novartis up 61% on the prior year.
Our European partner is responsible for marketing Foradil Certihaler Mundipharma launched the product as DepoCyte outside the USA.
The US Foradil franchise has in February 2004 and has had an encouraging been licensed to Schering-Plough Corporation.
initial response with full year sales of $1.5 million.
Mundipharma shares our view that the market We have now completed the Phase III trial of for DepoCyte is largely under-developed.
We have our once daily version of the Parkinsons drug now completed enrolment in the Phase IV trial Requip which we are conducting for our partner that will be used to support a filing for the most GlaxoSmithKline.
The product is expected to be common form of neoplastic meningitis, associated filed later this year.
We have recently extended our relationship with Mundipharma by granting We are developing several other asthma drugs in rights outside North America and Japan for metered-dose aerosol inhalers MDIs powered by DepoBupivacaine, a long-acting local anaesthetic a hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellant gas.
In 2004 that we believe complements DepoDur.
we completed the Phase III trial of an HFA-MDI DepoBupivacaine is currently in Phase II trials.
version of AstraZenecas inhaled steroid Pulmicort budesonide and AstraZeneca is about to file Solaraze, our topical gel treatment for actinic for approval of this product in the first country keratosis, is now marketed in the US by Bradley in Europe.
We will receive double-digit royalties Pharmaceuticals.
Bradley, a fast-growing US on sales of Pulmicort HFA-MDI.
2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 11 Our own HFA-MDI version of the bronchodilator development and market focus in this area.
We retain formoterol will commence Phase III trials in the our existing licences and can also continue to use autumn.
Flutiform HFA-MDI a fixed-dose the delivery technologies under certain conditions.
combination of formoterol and the inhaled steroid If all the pipeline products reach the market, fluticasone has now completed its Phase II trial, milestone payments will exceed US$20 million.
with very encouraging headline results.
Both SkyePharma will also receive a 10% royalty products are on track for planned filing in 2007. on sales.
Trigenesis is now part of the Indian As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, we pharmaceutical company, Dr Reddys Laboratories.
have now negotiated Heads of Terms with a major global pharmaceutical company to develop and In June we agreed a strategic alliance with the UK distribute Flutiform.
The agreement, which is still company Vectura for pulmonary delivery technologies.
subject to contract, will provide us with up to $160 We obtained certain rights to Vecturas Aspirair million in milestone payments and reimbursement dry-powder inhaler, which is particularly suitable of development costs and we will also be entitled for the delivery of macromolecules.
We invested to double-digit royalties on our partners sales.
2 million for a 4% equity stake in Vectura.
We are gratified that Vectura subsequently completed a Propofol IDD-D is our novel formulation of successful initial public offering on the AIM market propofol, a widely-used injectable anaesthetic and also recently concluded a major pulmonary and sedative.
Our formulation has been designed deal with Novartis.
not to support microbial growth, a recognised problem with current versions, and should provide King Pharmaceuticals at that time the target uninterrupted sedation for 24 hours, ideal for the of a takeover offer from Mylan Laboratories, a fast-growing intensive care market.
In April 2004 leading US generic company decided to terminate the FDA completed its review of the Phase II trials, a 2003 agreement to develop a modified release triggering a milestone payment from our North formulation of Altace ramipril.
This product American partner Endo, and we are now in dialogue was at an early stage of development.
with the FDA on the design of the additional trials required for approval.
We are also in current In 2004 our partner Astralis initiated US Phase II discussion with potential licensees for Europe trials of its novel psoriasis treatment Psoraxine.
Preliminary results announced recently were disappointing, with a placebo-like level of response.
New corporate developments We are currently working with Astralis to investigate In 2004 we licensed Triglide, an oral treatment for and resolve the possible reasons why the outcome elevated blood lipid disorders, in the USA to First of this trial should have been so different from the Horizon Pharmaceutical Corporation.
We will receive promising results of previous large-scale trials in up to $50 million in milestone payments, of which Venezuela.
We have recently acquired shares from $15 million was triggered by FDA approval in May two former Directors of Astralis, taking our equity 2005.
We will also receive 25% of First Horizons net stake up to just under 50% and enabling us to sales of this product in the form of royalty income and exercise greater influence.
Dr Gordon Schooley, manufacturing revenues.
We are also developing an SkyePharmas Chief Scientific Officer, has also improved formulation of First Horizons lead product, been appointed to the board of Astralis.
the cardiovascular drug Sular nisoldipine.
The future We also announced a collaboration with Critical We are determined to maximise the long-term Therapeutics to develop zileuton, an oral drug for return from our products and to move away from asthma and COPD.
We had previously developed reliance on one-off milestone payments, which a twice-daily version for Abbott Laboratories: this historically have made up the majority of our had completed Phase III development for asthma revenues.
This has meant a change in the structure but was not filed.
Critical Therapeutics has now of our agreements to optimise royalty rates and licensed zileuton from Abbott.
Critical Therapeutics to increase milestone payments that are tied to is aiming to file the controlled release product with product revenue targets.
Inevitably this has brought the FDA by the end of this year.
a short-term penalty in terms of revenues and cashflow but we are confident that this is the In April we licensed our dermatology products, correct long-term approach, which will greatly pipeline and topical delivery technologies to a US enhance the value of our products to the company.
In a strategic review last year we concluded that we would gain a greater return by out-licensing Michael Ashton this technology portfolio to a company with a Chief Executive Officer
