htm Sales have grown from continuing improvement in store operations and product ranges, but it is clear that the primary growth driver is the rollout of the refit programme.
Our sales performance was encouraging, Our strategy for Somerfield is to operate was no weakening in perceptions of value, 2 2 with like for like growth of 2.0% compared units of between 2,000ft and 15,000ft.
and the 9% sales uplift is an excellent with 0.9% in the previous year.
Within that range we are refining formats performance for a store where turnover Discounting the effect of the change from to suit specific store sizes, customer had been falling and which had sizeable mobile phone cards to electronic top-ups, shopping needs and demographics.
Progressive is at a the figure was higher at 2.5%.
programme has developed new much earlier stage in its development than Somerfield formats which we are now the other two formats and we will open Sales have grown from continuing trialling in a few of our converted stores.
two more trial stores in 2004. improvement in store operations and product ranges, but it is clear that the Somerfield Essentials is designed to be a Marketing and pricing primary growth driver is the rollout of the best in class convenience store format of Our pricing strategy allows us to set 2 refit programme.
It is open long appropriate price levels for the retail third year of the programme and the hours offering local, friendly service with a formats we operate.
We have continued stores experienced growth of 21% with demonstrably better fresh food offer than to invest in keeping prices competitive second year growth of 3%.
Sales other convenience store retailers.
productivity sales per square foot is Research at the first trial stores, in In February 2004 we began national rollout now over 14 whereas in the uninvested Belvedere and Dunstable, shows that of our Saver Card the UKs first loyalty estate sales per square foot are only 10. customers clearly prefer our approach to scheme to offer instant savings and offers more traditional convenience stores and In stores awaiting refits, sales at the till.
The scheme is tailored to have particular praise for our staff.
Sales performance continues to be challenging.
customers spending behaviour and are up about 21% and the increased fresh We are now accelerating the investment enables us to identify lapsed customers food offer has improved margins.
programme, giving priority to the stores and send them special offers.
Within five that have the greatest potential for sales Somerfield Market Fresh at approximately months we had 2.6 million card users and 2 uplift, as well as improving our offer and 7,000ft is designed for more affluent, we have gained valuable information that operations within the uninvested estate.
The aim is will guide our range, price and marketing to provide a particularly wide and exciting decisions.
Stores choice of fresh foods including fresh We have substantially increased our In April 2004 we launched a new national meat and fish counters, plus a convenient investment in refits, completing a further TV and radio advertising campaign, offer in other essential groceries and non- 61 stores, including 11 Kwik Save to focusing on the convenience of our food products.
The look is modern and Somerfield fascia conversions.
This has stores, which will also feature promotional fresh, and customer research at the first brought an encouraging improvement in offers and the Saver Card benefits.
two trial stores in Wanstead and both sales and margins.
Following the Product offer Carshalton has been very positive.
Sales closure of 12 stores, the total number of We continued to extend our own label uplifts have been around 20% despite a Somerfield stores at the year end, offering, focusing on the premium So major competitor opening near the including our Somerfield and Aberness Good and healthy Good Intentions ranges Carshalton store.
The which now include over 400 lines.
We number will increase again next year, as Somerfield Progressive was launched in also broadened our Mega Value range to September in Standish, near Wigan.
This we convert more Kwik Save stores and 40 lines, more than doubling sales.
open new convenience and forecourt carries standard Somerfield branding.
It is In some of our larger Somerfield stores a modern midsize supermarket offering convenience stores.
The progress of refits where we have surplus space we have in the Somerfield estate is set out in the one-stop shopping across all categories to introduced third party retailers: Peacocks meet the needs of a local neighbourhood.
table on page 7. clothing and Tchibo non-food products.
Initial research has shown improved These are proving popular with customers customer perceptions in all areas, with and we expect, where appropriate, to particular approval for the quality, extend this approach into more of our freshness and interest in fruit and larger stores.
vegetables and the instore bakery.
There 6 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 7 Be the leading local fresh and convenience food retailer.
The quality of our offer was confirmed by Refitted Awaiting refit Total estate further industry awards.
We were shortlisted in eight categories and won Somerfield 156 414 570 two first places in the 2003 Quality Food Forecourt 28 28 and Drink Awards: and in the International Aberness 36 36 Wine Challenge we won over 200 awards of which six were gold and 46 were for Total 184 450 634 wines exclusive to Somerfield.
Customer service Customer satisfaction levels continue to improve, and we now have a reward scheme for store managers based on customer exit survey findings.
We are devoting particular effort to reducing queues.
As many store staff as possible are till trained, so that they can be called to operate checkouts as required.
We are trialling mobile tills on trolleys as queuebusters, and U-Scan devices that enable customers to checkout their own shopping.
On-shelf product availability is a key factor in customer satisfaction.
Over the year average availability improved and we placed particular emphasis on improving availability on promotional lines.
Staff morale and training are crucial to customer service.
Morale continues to improve and staff turnover is down.
We have been investing more in staff training, focused on customer service and product knowledge.
Outlook For 2004 05, we aim for sustained sales growth, driven by a more aggressive refit programme and portfolio management to ensure that our stores are right for their Investment locations and are the right format and size.
We will drive sales in stores still awaiting investment by paying particular We have substantially increased attention to operating standards and customer offers, and to enhance our investment in refits, and this profitability still more we will continue working to reduce costs.
has brought an encouraging improvement in both sales and Katie Bickerstaffe margins.
Head of Somerfield Stores and Retail Services Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 7 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 8 Operating Review www.
htm The implementation of our strategy for Kwik Save started later than in Somerfield, but the pace of progress is now accelerating.
The implementation of our strategy for Marketing and pricing The business has benefited from lower Kwik Save started later than in Somerfield, Our strategy is centred on meeting stockholding costs and more productive but the pace of progress is now customers day-to-day food needs at low merchandising: including products in accelerating.
Like for like sales dipped 1% prices.
We maintained our price display trays that can be loaded directly in the first half but recovered in the second competitiveness, which we highlighted onto shelves without waiting in the as operational improvements took effect.
with a significantly strengthened stockroom, thereby reducing labour costs.
For the year as a whole, like for like sales promotional programme.
The Price-Less So far, the trials suggest that this is an were virtually flat, up 0.2% on a like for like campaign, launched in May 2003, and the attractive approach in both regenerated basis after taking into account the effect of Half Price promotion, launched in October, and unregenerated stores, enabling us to the change from mobile phone cards to both proved popular with customers.
display more boldly and market more electronic top-ups.
Although the second Our upgraded till and store systems have aggressively.
halfs sales growth was led by stores that enabled us to introduce multibuy We are increasing the proportion of fresh have benefited from investment, it was promotions and our pricing and food in our offer and therefore the encouraging to see that the rest of the promotions strategy has successfully allocation of space to meat, produce, estate also returned to growth.
increased the average basket size.
At the same Stores time we are exploring options for Product offer Our strategy for Kwik Save is to provide Our Kwik Save own label brand makes a increasing the quality, consistency and 2 stores of 6,000-12,000ft that are easy to competitiveness of the fresh offer while strong contribution to margins and to reach, easy to shop and offer low prices customers value perceptions.
This is meeting increasingly stringent regulatory for budget conscious shoppers.
In seven trial stores we provide increasingly important in a climate of conducted a detailed review of the whole intensifying price competition.
Own label centrally-purchased products for our retail estate to identify the stores that fit the partners to merchandise, giving them accounts for over 10% of sales, up from 5% strategy, those with catchment areas a year ago, and we have introduced some and our customers the benefit of keener better suited to the Somerfield fascia, and buying and more consistent quality.
680 new lines to the Kwik Save range.
those that have no realistic prospect of As with the Somerfield fascia, in some of The Simply range was launched in January achieving satisfactory returns.
During the 2003 to replace cheapest on display our larger Kwik Save stores where we year we closed 35 that fell into the third have surplus space we have introduced tertiary brands.
It now includes over 200 category and converted 11 to Somerfield, lines and sales in the year were third party retailers: Peacocks clothing and leaving a total of 634 stores in the estate.
We have stepped-up the store The total number of lines carried in Kwik Customer service regeneration programme, with the aim of Save stores has grown considerably in Hard work on improving operational refitting the whole estate by 2006 07.
We now see scope for more standards, raising on-shelf availability and the year end we had refitted a total of 72 rigorous range management and investing in our people through increased stores some 10% of the estate while rationalisation taking out slower-moving training has enhanced customer service significantly reducing the amount of lines without impairing the quality of and customer satisfaction ratings.
We capital expenditure required for each refit choice that our customers actually require.
introduced the Twos Company through value engineering and improved programme opening additional tills procurement.
We are currently trialling In 12 trial stores we have cut the total wherever possible if more than two ways of delivering refits at substantially range by 20%.
After an initial dip, we people are queuing at a checkout which reduced cost.
found sales quickly recovered to their has already proved a great success with former level.
Customers will benefit from Somerfield customers.
a clearer offer and improved availability.
8 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 9 Be the dominant low price neighbourhood food retailer.
Personal security has been a concern for some of our staff and we are also intent on reducing stock losses, which arise primarily through theft.
We have greatly increased security through the use of closed circuit TV in stores and have made personal alarms available to store staff.
However, much still remains to be done to tighten controls over stock losses and we are also improving stock management, particularly of perishable items.
Outlook As explained in the Chairmans statement, we are withdrawing Kwik Save from Scotland.
However, in 2004 05 we plan to accelerate the refit programme.
The competitive environment and customer demographics continue to change, and we will maintain our policy of converting stores to the Somerfield fascia where Strategy appropriate and closing stores with poor profit or trading prospects.
We have a programme in place to simplify every part Our strategy for Kwik Save is to of the business.
2 By simplifying Kwik Save, improving its provide stores of 6,000-12,000ft offer, investing in store regeneration and refocusing on its traditional heartland, we that are easy to reach, easy to are establishing a basis for delivering sustainable profitable sales growth in both shop and offer low prices.
the invested and uninvested estate.
Robin Whitbread Managing Director, Kwik Save Own label Own label accounts for over 10% of sales, up from 5% a year ago, and we have introduced more new lines to the Kwik Save range.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 9
