Operating Review for the year ended 31 December 2004 Building on the positive impact of the changes in organisational structure introduced in 2003, KCA DEUTAG is now organised into three distinct geographical units which will allow for the more efficient management of increased levels of international activity.
At the same time the Group has continued KCA DEUTAG celebrated 40 years of continuous Investing in skills In all areas of international to obtain significant cost savings through operations in Oman in 2004 and had seven rigs onshore and offshore the effective management of procurement operating throughout the year.
activity KCA DEUTAG and logistics.
In Iran our operations have now put their is placing a major emphasis on the previous difficulties behind them and are Onshore Operations recruitment, training achieving somewhat better performance for Our land drilling fleet continued to be utilised and development Norsk Hydro and Total utilising three rigs owned at a very high level throughout the year, reaching of local staff.
by the National Iranian Drilling Company.
This overall utilisation level is in practice the maximum possible, as within the Our operations in Pakistan continued fleet some rigs are invariably between contracts, satisfactorily with three rigs simultaneously demobilising or mobilising to new locations.
This is a very satisfactory level of performance Although our activities in Nigeria were initially particularly as by the year end the total rig fleet slow, by the year end all four rigs in-country had increased from thirty-two owned rigs to were, and continue to be, fully utilised, which forty-five, with a further three rigs being managed gives us more confidence for future activity levels by the Group.
The strategy of investing in new in this region.
and upgraded rigs to increase the size and scope Our activities in Libya not only saw a consistent of the fleet proved extremely successful.
performance with our five existing rigs being During the year KCA DEUTAG upgraded three fully utilised in-country, but also received existing rigs, of which two were heavy rigs and a significant increase through our acquisition were put to work in the Middle East, specifically of The International Air Drilling Company Ltd in Dubai and Bahrain, whilst the third gained IADC Ltd bringing an additional ten rigs six a contract in Europe for Ruhrgas.
Six out of the ten rigs are currently under contract with a good Our presence in the Gulf region was further number of near term projects for the future.
extended to Qatar through the award of a new In addition, a further two light drilling workover drilling contract in that country.
rigs are being built for deployment in the Libyan 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 In Q1 2004 the fully winterised, 2000hp rig T-2000 was awarded a contract for drilling in the Nadym area of East Siberia as a sub contractor to Schlumberger for RITEK, a Lukoil subsidiary.
T-2000 has been modified for work in harsh arctic conditions down to minus 45 degrees Celsius market as the country prepares for increased Although there has been an increase in and is the most advanced activity spearheaded by the returning exploration and appraisal activity in the North Sea drilling rig in Russia.
over the past two to three years, the total number of wells drilled has declined dramatically, some The Group is now the largest western-owned 20% each year.
This reduction has, somewhat drilling contractor in Libya and is well-positioned surprisingly, been focused on development wells, to capitalise on new opportunities.
and in particular wells from fixed platforms.
KCA DEUTAG continued to be the dominant On the plus side, in the North Sea KCA DEUTAG contractor in Europe with nine rigs being utilised, was awarded a three year extension to its contract with, in addition, a management contract for with CNR covering five platforms for a primary RWE DEA operations.
term of three years and also with Total for two platforms for a similar period.
A three year The operations for Sibneft in Russia have been a particular success with the fully winterised rig extension to the contract for the Scott platform formerly owned by EnCana has been confirmed T-2000s continuously improving performance providing a shop window for a number of by new owners Nexen.
BP has also notified the Group of its intention to negotiate a three year potential clients.
Early in 2004, our drilling work with Sibneft was completed, and the rig was extension to the current contract covering some six platforms.
awarded a new contract with Schlumberger I. P. M. which will continue into the third quarter As a result we now have secured a stable portfolio of 2005.
We are confident that, largely of period contracts in the North Sea.
In November as a result of this successful operation and 2004 we established KCA DEUTAG Drilling Norge the operation of a similarly winterised rig AS in Stavanger, Norway with a view to extending for AGIP KCO in Kazakhstan, we will open the reach of our North Sea operations, as well as up significant opportunities in Russia for to market our international services to major the Group in the near and longer term.
On 8 March 2004 we announced a US$42 International offshore operations made progress million contract for the provision of drilling during the year with continuous operation on services for the development of Salym Fields, both Chirag in Azerbaijan and the Molikpak in West Siberia.
The contract is with Salym Sakhalin, offshore Far East Russia.
In Pakistan the Petroleum Development N. V. a 50 50 joint Well Engineering division was awarded a project venture between Shell and OAO Evikhon.
management contract for a jack-up rig.
We have agreed to acquire two new drilling In December, operations commenced on the rigs from OMZ, and development drilling will Central Azeri platform in Azerbaijan.
This will commence in April 2005 with oil production be followed, as previously announced, in coming due by the end of 2005. years by Shah Deniz, West Azeri and East Azeri.
Overall, land drilling operations were highly Construction and engineering support continued satisfactory, and we continued to focus our to be the principal activity on Shells Lunskoye efforts on consolidating our position in and Piltun facilities being built for installation at a number of geographic areas.
These platforms should start operations during 2006 2007.
Offshore Operations 2004 was a year of change and transition for In all of our areas of international offshore the offshore division of KCA DEUTAG, with low activity KCA DEUTAG is placing a major North Sea activity being balanced by the start emphasis on the recruitment, training and up of drilling operations in the second half of the development of local staff, which will increase year of the first of a series of new international as operations get underway.
ABBOT GROUP plc 7 Operating Review for the year ended 31 December 2004 continued Engineering Spear Technologies Project engineering saw completion being Spear Technologies is a software company achieved on the Central Azeri field in Azerbaijan.
based in Oakland, California, providing asset Activities continued on our other major projects.
management solutions for the The Shah Deniz engineering team relocated transportation industry.
to Baku where the main construction activities Although the company was successful in will be focused until completion.
Work continued gaining a number of new contracts in the UK on the Deep Water Guneshli phase 3 project and Europe, the overall financial results for 2004 for BP, also in Azerbaijan.
However, we anticipate that The drilling facilities for ChevronTexacos this significant new work will deliver improved Benguela Belize field were completed on time results in 2005. and on budget and were delivered to the client Whilst we continue to support Spear, it is not in Houston, Texas by the year end.
The integrated a core business for the Group and it is not our platform rig is due to leave the United States early long-term strategy to retain it in our portfolio.
in 2005 with operations in Angola due to start in the summer.
This is a notable engineering Safety achievement for KCA DEUTAG.
The rig will be In 2004 many rigs and projects delivered located on top of a compliant tower in 1,280ft exemplary safety performance and our overall of water and will be the first such structure performance was significantly better than our installed outside the Gulf of Mexico.
key benchmark with the International Association KCA DEUTAGs engineering capability was of Drilling Contractors IADC.
significantly enhanced in September 2004 Investments In 2004, we received a number of awards by the acquisition of the assets and business of The land drilling fleet in recognition of those operations which have increased from 32 owned Rig Design Services RDS.
RDS has a formidable continued their record of excellence, including rigs to 45, with a further track record of front end engineering design the IADC North Sea Safety Award and a special 3 being managed by and project management, and it brought to the commendation in the Scottish Enterprise the Group, by year end.
Group a resource which will provide access Offshore Achievement Awards.
We continue to strive for further improvement Bentec in all our operations.
Bentec has also had a successful year, maintaining its focus on products and assemblies.
Its electrical Objectives and Strategies control units are proving to be commercially The Group is placing itself in all of the major successful and Bentec has won the contract investment provinces of its primary clients the to supply the electrical systems for the rigs international oil companies namely the Caspian being built for KCA DEUTAG by OMZ in region, the Middle East, North Africa notably Yekaterinburg, Russia.
Libya, and Russia, both in Sakhalin and in Siberia.
Russia in particular is an expanding area which A major success was the award of a u38 million we believe will produce excellent opportunities contract for RWE DEA in Germany to design, in the near future.
Our investment programme build and supply a new drilling facility for their is based on increasing the land drilling fleet based Mittelplate artificial island, offshore northern on a portfolio of clearly identified opportunities.
This project, which has been executed Offshore contracts, which in general require less using a very high degree of outsourcing for in terms of capital investment, provide high lower value work, is well on track for delivery visibility long-term revenues.
They do however to the island in August 2005 with completion require long-term commitment to geographic due in December 2005.
Bentec has also areas and to the development of relationships.
completed rig component supply projects in KCA DEUTAG has built on its engineering Kazakhstan, and in January 2005 KCA DEUTAG capability to develop and strengthen these placed an order for two land rigs for the Russian relationships.
The recent acquisition of RDS market following a competitive bidding process.
enables KCA DEUTAG to further enhance this element of its capabilities.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 KCA DEUTAG has a seven year contract with Sakhalin Energy Investment Company SEIC, offshore Sahkalin, far eastern Russia.
In 2004 the company was operating drilling services on the Molikpaq platform pictured, and supplying engineering support to SEICs design Given that the vast majority of the world oil and in some way.
We operate in some areas of the contractors for Lunskoye-A gas reserves are held by national oil companies world which have perceived and real potential and Piltun-B, and will provide NOCs or variations thereof, the Group risk.
Independent studies carried out on behalf platform drilling services when is examining ways to improve our penetration of the Group indicate that potential risks in most drilling commences on these two platforms.
of this potential market whilst at the same time areas are mitigated by the fact that our activity Photo courtesy of SEIC maintaining margin strength.
is considered with the revenue earning oil and gas business, which tends not to be upset Risks and Uncertainties by political upheaval.
Clearly the Group has a varying risk profile in its Changes in oil price can affect the activity levels operations depending on which part of the world of all of our clients, whether they are NOCs or is under consideration.
The primary driver We have a rigorous risk evaluation process is confidence in a particular price level which then which is embedded not only in all investment leads to the ability to make investment decisions.
KCA DEUTAG is the leading decisions, but on an ongoing basis whereby The Groups activities are, however, focused platform drilling contractor operating conditions are continually monitored.
on development drilling which in the main has in the Caspian region, and has just commenced drilling The risks to the business are formally assessed long-term contracts.
This applies both onshore operations on Central Azeri, and considered by a committee of the Board and offshore: our lack of exposure to the having provided engineering at least twice per year.
exploration and appraisal market makes the services since the contract Group much less exposed to the price fluctuation award in 1997.
Topsides were In general, however, operational risks are safely installed offshore in Q4 risk than many other drilling contractors.
recognised and managed and by the nature 2004, with first oil in Q1 2005. of the business, are covered or ameliorated Photo courtesy of BP ABBOT GROUP plc 9 Operating Review for the year ended 31 December 2004 continued Resources Past Performance and Position The Groups primary resources are its people, Over the past 10 years the Group has been and its tangible assets.
focusing on the broadening of its activities internationally, with early emphasis on the The technical resources and assets that have Caspian and the setting up of a presence enabled continued expansion have to date in Houston, specifically to address international been available to the Group from a number of opportunities.
This was a conscious drive to sources.
KCA DEUTAG has been able to invest reduce the dependency of the Group on the in the refurbishment of existing rigs within its UK sector of the North Sea and to develop portfolio, to purchase second hand capacity and new geographic markets.
These options have enabled the Group to continue to invest in new capacity The acquisition of Deutag in 2001 reinforced in a cost effective and project specific way.
this strategy and as part of the post acquisition activities the integration of the two companies Clearly the spare capacity which has existed has been focused on the concentration of the within the Group will be diminished over time, Groups assets and activities in areas of high and we continue to explore the opportunities activity in our clients portfolios.
A conscious for purchasing other companies non-core decision was made not to enter the drilling assets as they become available.
market in the Americas, as we feel that in order The opportunities for new build will become to be effective, significant critical mass would be required and a different approach to our the preferred route, which if supported by commensurate increases in day rate, will business would be necessary in a market served by the widest spectrum of competition.
be good for the Group and the industry as a whole as it will revitalise the entire fleet.
The Group therefore focused what was formerly the Deutag business in North Africa, the Middle Recruitment and retention of skilled personnel has become a key issue for the oil and gas East and Russia, selling the assets which at the time were positioned in Venezuela.
industry as a whole, although the Group to date generally has a good track record in this respect.
The Group is now strongly represented in many of the areas where BP, Shell, ExxonMobil, Agip Activity is increasing across the spectrum and there is clear pressure on the attraction and ChevronTexaco are investing, with significant market share in Oman and Nigeria.
The Group and retention of suitably qualified people.
The Group has recognised this and has a number has become the dominant western drilling contractor in Russia, both onshore and offshore, of strategies for reinforcing its capabilities, including an emphasis on training and developing Azerbaijan and Libya.
local skills, and a focus on scholarship schemes Michael J. L. Salter in the UK, Azerbaijan, Angola and elsewhere.
Chief Operating Officer The Group is looking at an increase in the 11 March 2005 employment and development of certain categories of personnel as an investment matter, which like more tangible assets will be based on a portfolio of opportunities.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 At the IADC International Association of Drilling Contractors Annual North Sea Safety Awards KCA DEUTAG won the best performance for platform drilling contractors.
KCA DEUTAG Offshore Platform Rigs at March 2005 KCA DEUTAG OPERATED OWNED BY CLIENT UNDER DESIGN CONSTRUCTION Europe Andrew BP Bruce BP Harding BP Magnus BP Miller BP Britannia BOL Scott Nexen Beryl 'A' ExxonMobil Beryl 'B' ExxonMobil Murchison CNR Ninian C CNR Ninian N CNR Ninian S CNR Tiffany CNR Alwyn Total Dunbar Total Kittiwake Venture Heather Lundin Thistle Lundin Mittleplatte RWE Dea Caspian Central Azeri BP East Azeri BP Chirag 2000HP BP AIOC KCA DEUTAG OWNED West Azeri BP Shah Deniz BP Sakhalin Molikpaq SEIC Piltun-B SEIC Lunskoye-A SEIC Angola Benguela Belize CABGOC Total Platfrom Rigs 22 7 29 Rigs in Total KCA DEUTAG Land Rig Fleet at March 2005 HEAVY RIGS MEDIUM RIGS LIGHT RIGS LAND RIGS 3000HP 2000HP 1500HP 1200 TO 1000HP 900 TO 600HP 550 TO 300HP Europe T-52 T-61 T-15 W O T-25 T-36 W O T-65 T-45 T-85 W O T-46 Libya T-72 T-16 R-32 W O R-2 W O R-204 R-34 W O R-3 W O R-205 R R-40 W O R-5 W O R R-206 T-108 R-10 W O R-101 W O R-102 W O R-103 W O T-107 W O Nigeria T-26A T-57 T-43 T-76 Oman T-51 T-63 T-44 T-55 T-77 T-66 T-78 Dubai T-79 T-202 R Bahrain T-80 Qatar T-67 Pakistan T-75 T-34 T-103A Thailand T-48 Brunei T-201 on order T-41 Kazakhstan T-47 Russia T-2000 T-500 on order T-390 T-501 on order T-391 Total Rigs Owned 4 13 4 14 10 8 Iran Rigs Managed NIDC 48 Managed NIDC 51 Managed NIDC 63 Managed W O Workover Rig 56 Rigs in Total R Requires Refurbishment ABBOT GROUP plc 11
