Operating Review Focused approach Our strategy for growth continues to focus on recruiting new users to the brand by targeted advertising and distribution at the 16-24 age range.
For the first time Durex joined forces with Topman, Durex aUK fashion retailer for young men, to provide a new distribution channel for quality condoms.
The condoms were specifically packaged to appeal to the fashionDurex continues to be the market leader of conscious young male.
branded condoms with a global market share of 24 per cent.
For 75 years, Durex has represented Exploiting brand potential quality and reassurance for consumers, but over Through consumer research, we know that modern the past year, the brand has grown to represent attitudes have changed and todays sexual even more moving to provide not only expert enlightenment means that consumers are seeking protection for safer sex but also the confidence products to enhance their sex lives as well as to provide and freedom to enjoy better sex.
protection against pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.
Durex Play is positioned as a sexual enhancement product, challenging the traditionally held view that lubricants are solely intended to remedy medical problems.
This innovative launch into the lubricants market provides the opportunity to grow the Durex brand name and capture new users.
Durex Play is proving popular with consumers and is being launched in all major markets.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 06 Operating Review Durex Consumer driven innovation Expanding success The Durex brand continues innovation in condoms, We have been able to increase our level of success by launching two new condoms during the course by taking existing products and rolling them out to of this year: Pleasuremax with a uniquely positioned other markets.
Durex Love, previously only sold in ribbed and dotted texture to maximise stimulation, Germany, was launched in Italy and more recently in and Comfort XL, a new extra long and wide condom.
The products packaging appeals to the youth Both are proving appealing to both existing and market, emphasising passion and irreverence and new users.
defying the image of condoms as routine and boring.
Creative marketing Social responsibility To appeal to our target age group, we have deliberately We are strongly committed to our role of helping been provocative in our advertising.
In the recent OTC prevent unplanned pregnancies and sexually Magazine awards in the UK, Durex was given the best transmitted infections worldwide.
Our work in this OTC Consumer Advertising in Press award for Durex area is highly diversified, incorporating education Performa, a product designed to prolong lovemaking, in schools and other youth-focused organisations, which was promoted with a variety of slogans such as such as the Outward Bound Trust.
We support roger more, more secs and ejaculater and began health programmes in developing countries both using a poster featuring an elongated woodscrew.
through active involvement in local communities, such as Programme H in Brazil and the provision of unbranded condoms to governments and other global organisations.
Award winning advertising Our provocative advertising won us acclaim.
The main photo shows the long screw and opposite is more secs both from a campaign promoting the Durex Performa condom which is designed to prolong lovemaking.
Product innovation focusing on consumer needs Two new condoms were launched during the year.
Pleasuremax shown here has a uniquely positioned ribbed and dotted texture to maximise stimulation.
Exploiting brand potential Durex Play challenges the traditionally held view that lubricants are solely intended to remedy medical problems.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 07 Operating Review Durex Operating Review Focused approach We have embarked upon a major rejuvenation programme for the footcare product portfolio to simplify the existing product range, revitalise the brand identity and pack design and offer new performance Scholl footcare products.
The new Scholl range was launched in the UK in April 2004 and will be rolled-out to other European and Far Eastern markets over the course The Scholl brand celebrates its centenary this of the next 12 months.
Its founder, Dr William Scholl was profoundly interested in the anatomy and By implementing this programme, we are developing physiology of the foot with a view to improving a solid foundation for future growth, as the strategy peoples health, comfort and well-being through is focused on enhanced consumer benefits, roll-out their feet.
This ethos lies at the heart of Scholl.
of new products and an improved supply chain.
Scholl has come a long way since Dr Scholls original invention in 1904, the Foot-eazer designed to correct weakness in the foot arch: and the range now includes products for blisters and corns, foot odour and aching feet as well as exfoliating and moisturising foot skincare products.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 08 Operating Review Scholl footcare Exploiting brand potential Creative marketing Using our expertise in footcare, we have created a new To appeal to younger consumers, our advertising category within the insoles range.
Scholl Party Feet to support Party Feet had to be impactful and well combats the problem of the burning sensation in the targeted.
In the UK, the Scholl Party Feet advert balls of the feet, often experienced by party-goers Sore Balls Girls?
won the award for Best OTC wearing high heels.
Party Feet has provided a fun and Campaign on a Small Budget at the OTC Magazines modern approach to the traditional insoles market, prestigious annual awards ceremony.
an approach which is more appealing to younger consumers and is illustrative of our aim of supplying Combining this strong edgy advertising with products both to enhance consumer enjoyment as a high profile campaign in consumer broadcast well as solving acknowledged problems.
and print media reached a new, younger, fashion conscious audience.
Party Feet was launched in the UK and significantly exceeded initial forecasts, especially in the preThe new Scholl campaign yellow wellies has been Christmas party season.
We are now introducing very well received in consumer focus groups.
The Party Feet throughout Europe and working to expand campaign is based on a series of occasions or lifestyle the range of products sold under this banner.
triggers that reflect times where people are more aware of their feet, for example holidays, nights out or exercise classes.
In addition to the success in the UK, our Australian business won an Australian Design Award for the Scholl Gel Arch Support.
Creating an impact Our Sore Balls Girls?
advert, aimed at younger consumers, won us acclaim at the OTC Magazines annual awards.
Exceeding forecasts Party Feet, a fun and modern approach to the insoles market, has exceeded initial sales forecasts in the UK and is now being introduced throughout Europe.
Brand identity and pack design Examples of our new packaging with stronger brand identity part of a major rejuvenation programme.
New Scholl advertising Our forthcoming yellow wellies campaign, which highlights times when people become more aware of their feet, has been well received by focus groups.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 09 Operating Review Scholl footcare Operating Review The Footwear Development Group The Footwear Development Group FDG, based near Milan, Italy, is a unique facility within SSL.
It is responsible for the design, development, production by third parties and delivery of the Scholl footwear Scholl footwear range across Europe.
Exploiting brand potential Scholl footwear represents 47 per cent of The opportunity for Scholl is to extend the brand total revenues derived from the Scholl brand position so as to widen its appeal and increase its and as such represents a significant element prominence.
As a result, a strategic review of Scholl of our branded consumer product portfolio.
footwear is currently identifying the best way to exploit We are now placing an increased importance the opportunities in both traditional strength areas on its development worldwide.
We have of the brand and in new segments.
Achieving this will recently appointed an International Footwear rely upon a new approach to range segmentation Director for the first time to direct our growth and development based on consumer needs.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 10 Operating Review Scholl footwear Development of distribution channels The iconic wooden exercise sandal continues the Increasing distribution of Scholl footwear is critical to heritage of the brand values with a modern day brand growth.
Scholl footwear needs to become more solution to current lifestyle trends.
We have promoted accessible to a broader set of consumers by being this style to celebrate the centenary of the Scholl brand represented in more than one type of distribution internationally.
channel in each market across pharmacy, shoe trade and image positioning accounts.
These initiatives In addition over the past year, Scholl has collaborated have already generated the reintroduction of Scholl with brands, such as Burberry and more recently, footwear into Boots, Schuh, Sole Trader, Office and Celine, which has received wide PR coverage in Galeries Lafayette.
womens fashion media across Europe.
Linking Scholl with such fashionable brand names creates Who said healthy cant be stylish?
interest and heightens awareness of the Scholl The underlying philosophy of Scholl footwear is to footwear brand.
provide health benefits through comfort and improved posture.
However we also believe that we can offer the Integrated brand brand across different market segments by meeting It is critical that footwear and footcare products sold fashion and lifestyle needs.
under the Scholl brand are perceived by consumers as a fully integrated brand providing solutions to foot problems and improving the care of feet.
Improving brand awareness Our iconic wooden exercise sandal was chosen to promote Scholls centenary.
Scholl has also been collaborating with luxury brands like Burberry and Celine, receiving media coverage across Europe as a result.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 11 Operating Review Scholl footwear Operating Review Syndol Syndol is the UKs fastest growing adult oral analgesic and is particularly effective in easing muscle tension.
Recently, Syndols sales performance has been very responsive to a humorous TV advertising campaign, Other Consumer Brands such that we have re-run the campaign to capitalise on the popularity of the product.
SSL has a range of branded OTC products sold Meltus in the UK and Southern Europe.
Examples of our Meltus cough medicine has recently been subject key brands in these markets are as follows: to a major re-launch programme in the UK, which has seen excellent growth in turnover and market share.
The new, modern packaging, received very positively by both our customers and our consumers, has been supported by an amusing and effective TV advertising campaign featuring Max Meltusand the evil Chestikov.
Sauber Sauber is a long established brand in our Southern European markets and comprises compression hosiery and deodorant products.
In Italy, Sauber hosiery is market leader in the compression therapy area with very high distribution throughout pharmacies.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 12 Operating Review Other Consumer Brands Recent consumer research in Italy reinforced our belief completed by the end of the current year when other that there is increasing interest in the prevention and new products will be launched.
care of leg problems but consumers do not want to compromise comfort and style.
Our other consumer business includes: In response to this, the Sauber hosiery range is being Retail re-launched using a new multi-fibre texture, which In Scandinavia and Switzerland, we continue to operate makes the product soft, comfortable and easy to a small chain of retail stores through which Scholl wear whilst continuing to provide the benefits of footwear and footcare products are sold and chiropody compression.
The re-launch is supported by modern, treatment is provided.
clear packaging and an effective consumer education programme, which focuses on the benefits of product Distributor brands performance, comfort and style.
We distribute other brands on behalf of third parties, for example, Wilkinson Sword in Australia and Mister Baby Coppertone in Japan.
In addition, we continue Mister Baby is a range of mother and baby products to distribute Marigold household gloves through sold in Southern Europe.
The product range is diverse our consumer distribution channels.
including feeding bottles, dummies and toys.
Unbranded condoms Our Spanish market has begun to re-invigorate As part of our commitment to sexual health on the Mister Baby product range and has recently a worldwide basis, we sell unbranded condoms completed the first stage of their plan, which was to governments and global health organisations.
the introduction of an infra-red thermometer and new creams and lotions.
The re-launch will be Responding to market research The Sauber hosiery range is being relaunched, combining compression technologies, comfort and style.
Growing turnover and market share The newly re-invigorated Meltus range is being received positively by both customers and consumers.
New product launch in Spain A new infra-red thermometer is part of Mister Babys re-launch plan which will see the introduction of more new products by the end of the year.
Successful TV advertising Syndols sales have been improved by a humorous advertising campaign, helping us to capitalise on the products popularity.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 13 Operating Review Other Consumer Brands
