Polymer Chemicals Polymer Volume continues to be strong Chemicals within the Polymer business and the global infrastructure is in place to support further growth.
Against a backcloth of substantial supplyPolymer Chemicals is a major side difficulties, our Polymer Chemicals supplier of water based polymers businesses did well to maintain progress and synthetic latices to the surface towards our long-term strategic aims.
coatings, paper, adhesives and Along with the pressure of rising oil-derived textile industries.
raw material prices throughout the year, there were unprecedented shortages Polymer Chemicals major activity of key monomers used in our products.
is the manufacture of aqueous This not only exacerbated price levels dispersions and synthetic latices further, but also restricted the achievement which form one of the cornerstones of a number of identified growth opportunities.
of Yule Cattos speciality chemicals It is, therefore, pleasing to report record product portfolio.
Yule Catto sales volumes, capacity utilisation companies have established an improvements and the creation of new unrivalled reputation as leaders in opportunities through product innovation.
polymer technology and are foremost manufacturers of polymer dispersions The magnitude of the challenges facing and related products to targeted our business in 2004 was most apparent sectors around the world.
in Europe as we endured serious raw material shortages.
Fifteen force majeures Core products manufactured by Yule were called by our suppliers as feedstock Catto include emulsions, SBR latices, output was interrupted by oil cracker Turnover industrial adhesives, polyvinyl alcohol, outages and plant production problems.
316.1 million 57.5% liquid polybutadiene, alkyd and As a consequence, an already tight supply Divisional operating profitpolyester resins and prevulcanised versus demand balance came under strain 26.9 million 55.4% natural latex.
These products are and suppliers were forced either to allocate essential raw materials for several or temporarily halt supply.
This had the industries including paper, carpets, effect of compounding the impact on raw surface coatings, plastics and textiles.
material costs which were already moving Manufacturing facilities are located at upwards with the rise in crude oil prices.
sites throughout Europe, South East It was difficult to reflect the speed of Asia, the Middle East and South Africa.
change in input prices quickly in our selling prices with the result that margins declined across the year.
Recognition of these unusual circumstances and their implications has now been accepted by our customer base and selling prices are being increased, which will provide margin recovery as raw materials stabilise.
The supply chain is likely to remain fairly tight but good work in changing polymer formulations and seeking out new suppliers means that supplies in the year ahead should be more secure.
This will permit a resumption of the drive to achieve higher volumes for 7% our newly established European facilities.
increase in divisional turnover 07 Annual Report 2004 01 Polymer Chemicals continued Outside Europe, our businesses did not Synthetic Latex suffer to the same extent, primarily as Overall, volume of synthetic latex grew supply lines are different.
However, they by 11% in the year.
The achievement was did not escape the global impact of rising greatly assisted by the Synthomer plant 11% oil prices flowing through to higher raw in Malaysia reaching full capacity and material costs.
Market acceptance was customers appreciating the benefits Volume growth quicker and margins were maintained by of indigenous production.
Demand for of synthetic latex virtue of successful price increase dipping latex remains strong, with sales programmes.
We were also able to benefit growing in excess of 15%.
Support from from the strategic capacity enhancements our UK facilities has been initiated, as has made in late 2003 in the Middle East and the design study for a 35% increase in the South Africa which, combined with the capacity of the facility in Kluang.
This will introduction of new polymers, provided the have the additional benefit of enabling our platform for improved results.
Also playing Malaysian plant to manufacture other its part was our Malaysian nitrile latex products from our comprehensive range of facility which attained new highs in terms SBR latices for sale throughout the region.
Further capacity expansion is now taking place in Saudi Arabia and we In Europe, our leadership in the carpet are progressing the design and planning compound market was enhanced by stages for increased polymerisation the development of new customers.
facilities in Malaysia and Belgium.
Unfortunately, in general, the carpet industry faced difficult conditions, The price of crude oil continues to be particularly in the UK, where some volatile and raw material input prices traditional and well-known names have remain difficult to predict due to the been forced to cease trading.
The most likely outlook is for more modest rises in coming months.
Freeing up capacity in Europe for construction and textile latices, generated by the transfer of dipping latex manufacture to Kluang, has enabled us to widen the customer profile in other latex activities.
European latex volumes for speciality applications rose by 15% and only shortages of some specific raw materials restricted further growth.
On the negative side, styrene monomer, one of the main raw materials, was the subject of a change from quarterly to monthly pricing by suppliers as a consequence of sharply rising benzene prices.
Efforts to reflect this speed of movement in selling prices were only partially successful.
08 Yule Catto & Co plc Emulsions 04 01 Emulsion sales volume grew at over 8% The new nitrile facility in Kluang, Malaysia Synthomer Sdn Bhd is operating at full capacity.
across the group, which is a considerable achievement given the difficulty in meeting 02 demand caused by many interruptions in Emulsion Polymers are the base for water the raw material supply chain.
Positive as it based decorative emulsion paints.
was, the volume growth did not reach the 03 high levels we had hoped for during the New storage facilities form part of the first full year of trading from our first expansion of the DCI Harco manufacturing site.
emulsion facility in mainland Europe.
Promotional activities were fully reactivated 04 in the fourth quarter, with promising results A typical application for polyester composites, a new market for our Specialities PVAc business.
as efforts to improve raw material supplies began to bear fruit.
Significant business opportunities exist and planning for The strength of the Rand affected exports Other Speciality Products additional capacity in Mouscron, Belgium by our South African subsidiary, but In April, Revertex Malaysia joined forces is in progress.
demand from the local economy more with Kurian Abraham Private Ltd to form a than compensated.
The performance was joint venture, Revertex KA Latex India In the Middle East, record sales volumes aided by the introduction of new polymers Private Ltd, to manufacture our speciality and profits were achieved by our joint for construction, adhesives and surface natural rubber latices in India.
India is fast venture, DCI-Harco.
Yet another new coatings to enhance the product portfolio.
becoming a major producer of natural reactor is in the course of installation rubber and is already No.
to meet continued strong demand Our Far East group also had a successful We envisage that the combination of an from customers in Saudi Arabia and year in emulsions.
Closer co-ordination indigenous raw material source and our adjacent countries.
between regions, involving technical well-established technology will provide exchange, allowed Revertex Malaysia to a sound extension to our natural rubber configure its production facilities to activities.
The existing natural rubber manufacture an increased range of business in Malaysia and Thailand showed speciality emulsions.
Local economies good growth with sales for condom 02 remain reasonably robust and manufacture increasing in China and management deployed close technical the USA.
contact with customers to aid the reaction to raw material price rises through new Revertex Finewaters position in the product introductions.
manufacture and sale of adhesives in Malaysia has been enhanced with a number Polyvinyl Alcohol Acetate of new products added to the already wide A debottlenecking programme enabled product range.
Furthermore, export sales improved capacity utilisation and with the improved, particularly to Vietnam, Hong PVC industry, the main outlet for Kong, Thailand and Pakistan.
However, Synthomers alcotex range, showing the company was not immune from rising growth, the sales of polyvinyl alcohol were input costs and profitability fell back from at record levels.
Particularly encouraging the high levels of previous years.
was the development of new business in 03 Asian markets, where the benefits of the Sales of alkyd resins in Asia reached unique technical properties of our alcotex record levels.
Not only did we see organic primary stabilisers found favour in both and new customer growth from our own rigid and flexible PVC resins.
A large promotional activities, but benefits also proportion of sales are exported from accrued from an unexpected surge in Europe to US Dollar denominated demand as other suppliers experienced territories and currency weakness created production problems.
Recovery through selling price increases is being New technical initiatives in the Lithene achieved, but with the inevitable lag in polybutadiene business resulted in a 23% implementation.
The growth is expected to continue and a capacity enhancement Polyvinyl acetate sales held up well despite project is programmed for 2005. disappointing sales to the automotive sound damping market.
The introduction of new products opened up a new field for Synthomer, namely low profile polyester additives and we expect to build on sales in the USA.
