CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our strategy recognises that there is still much to do to create maximum value for all our stakeholders.
Nevertheless, 2004 was a good start Robert Beeston Chairman For Cookson, 2004 was a year of both In common with many companies, the Finally, I would like to thank Kent change and progress.
I was very pleased most recent valuation of our UK pension Atkinson, who steps down as a nonto announce the appointment of Nick Salmon scheme showed a sizeable deficit.
Following executive Director on 15 April 2005, for who joined us as Chief Executive in July.
discussions with the schemes trustees, his contribution over the past two years.
Nick brings vast experience to the Groups the contributions of both the Company and John Sussens has succeeded Kent as Board which he demonstrated in his first six scheme members have been increased.
months as we undertook a wide-ranging During the year, we announced the This years improved performance strategic review.
appointment of Jan Oosterveld and John was achieved through the efforts and Nick presented the outcome of this Sussens as non-executive Directors to replace commitment of the Groups employees review in January 2005.
The strategy Tony Alexander and June fide Moller who worldwide.
I thank them for raising the adopted, which the Board wholeheartedly retired as non-executive Directors in 2004. standards of our operations.
endorses, recognises that there is still Steve Howard stepped down from the much to do to create maximum value for Board in November following a smooth all our stakeholders and sets out a proactive handover to Nick Salmon.
Ray Sharpe, programme for the immediate future.
Chief Executive of the Electronics division, Nevertheless, 2004 was a good start.
Robert Beeston Chairman Groups profit before tax of 93 million was I would like to take this opportunity to 15 March 2005 almost three times higher than the previous thank Steve, Ray, Tony and June for their year and headline earnings per share valuable contributions to Cookson over improved to 3.3 pence 2003: 1.1 pence.
I am particularly pleased to report that We have also recently announced further operating cash flow was strong, resulting directorate changes.
Dennis Millard, Group in a considerable reduction in net debt to Finance Director since 1996, has informed 307 million 2003: 359 million.
We expect the Board of his intention to step down to make further progress across our three from the Board and leave Cookson during divisions in the current year.
Dennis has been The Board is well aware that many Group Finance Director over a period shareholders are keen to see the that has encompassed both significant reinstatement of dividend payments as achievements and considerable challenges, a sign of confidence in the strength of most recently with the arrangement of the Cooksons recovery.
It is our intention new 200 million bank facility.
He was an to return Cookson to the dividend list as integral part of the strategic review and soon as possible, with dividends paid on I know that Nick Salmon appreciates the a sustainable basis from free cash flow.
support Dennis has given him during his A further indication of the confidence initial period with Cookson.
The process both we and our bankers have in Cooksons of recruiting a successor has commenced future is the refinancing of our bank facility, and Dennis will continue in his role until on improved pricing and terms, which was an appointment has been made and a Before exceptional items and amortisation announced on 1 March 2005. transition effected.
8 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We have fundamentally sound positions in our markets, good products and technologies and a great team of committed people worldwide who are striving to deliver continuous improvements in customer service and returns to our shareholders Nick Salmon Chief Executive 2004 results Restructuring of Precious Metals in Europe: I highlight the main conclusions from the The Groups results showed a marked We closed two manufacturing sites in France review below: improvement in 2004, benefiting from both during 2004 and consolidated seven sales there has been a common misconception better market conditions and action taken offices into three.
European production was that Cookson is a pure electronics to restructure certain businesses and control reorganised to focus on gold products in the company.
In reality, since the disposal costs.
Turnover from continuing operations UK and silver products in Spain.
Completion of Speedline and with the restructuring was up 5% at reported exchange rates to of this programme will take place in the of Laminates, less than 30% of our sales 1,698 million.
Operating profit for second quarter of 2005. and profits come from electronics markets: continuing operations before exceptional Restructuring of Electronics in the USA all our main businesses command strong items and amortisation of intangible assets and Europe: In the second half of the year market share and technology positions rose by 47% to 120 million.
Net income we initiated a further phase of restructuring and have production facilities that are after tax, amortisation of intangible assets and in the Laminates sector in the USA and well adapted to their geographic markets.
exceptional charges improved from a loss of Germany including rationalisation of the However, more can be done to improve 205 million in 2003 to a loss of 50 million US-based divisional head office.
Net debt at 31 December 2004 was of the US initiatives and implementation of the Group has adequate financial 307 million, compared to 359 million at a social plan in Germany, which has been resources.
The new 200 million 31 December 2003, reflecting an exceptionally agreed with the local unions, are scheduled unsecured bank facility is a clear and strong fourth quarter improvement.
to take place in the first half of 2005. tangible confirmation of our improved This much improved performance came Disposals and rationalisation in Ceramics: financial condition and prospects.
from a marked pick-up in the global markets As part of our strategy to exit low margin for our Electronics division, which started commodity activities, in December 2004 we Strategy in the last quarter of 2003, together with sold two refractory brick making businesses As a result of the review, the Group will continued strong growth in global demand based in Belgium and Germany for a cash pursue a strategy which incorporates for steel and glass, the most important consideration of 1 million.
end markets for the Ceramics division.
The launched a project to rationalise production Our operational focus will be on Precious Metals division delivered a better in NAFTA and expand our Mexican plant.
developing the performance of our core result than last year despite relatively weak businesses by capitalising on existing These measures, the costs of which are consumer demand for gold jewellery in the strong market shares and technological reported in the exceptional charges, will yield peak fourth quarter shopping season.
expertise and investing further in growing improved operating results going forward.
The overall improvement also reflects the markets.
Operational improvement plans benefits from the disposal of the Electronics are being introduced at all businesses Strategic review divisions loss-making equipment business which are designed to produce marked Since my arrival in July 2004, I have Speedline, which was sold in November gains in competitiveness, profitability and undertaken a thorough review of Cooksons 2003, and from the ongoing restructuring cash generation.
These plans revolve operations and with the Board have of that divisions Laminates sector which around the following principles: conducted a complete strategic review, has transformed it from loss-making to Products and markets: We will focus on the result of which we presented to the break-even.
higher technology, higher margin products, financial markets on 18 January 2005.
Actions taken during 2004 to address maintaining a high R&D spend and exiting The full presentation is available on our underperforming businesses included: commodity activities.
co. uk, and 9 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Investment and restructuring: We have a the precious metal content for the Precious sincere commitment to ensuring world class well balanced geographic match between Metals division.
health, safety and environmental compliance our production facilities and our customer We also plan to reduce debt significantly in all our facilities in all regions.
That is to say we make where over the next 2-3 years through a combination I have been favourably impressed with we sell, critical because in all our activities of stronger operational cash flow from the Groups internal controls and overall we need to be a just-in-time supplier improved profitability and working capital operational structure, which combine a see charts below.
Today 37% of our management and a disposal programme relatively lean, decentralised operating sales originate from NAFTA, 36% from the which aims to raise over 100 million from approach with strong central financial control EU and 27% from the Rest of the World, the sale of a number of non-core businesses and governance functions.
This year has also principally Asia-Pacific.
We anticipate from across all three divisions.
The sale of seen an enormous effort to ensure timely strongest market growth in Asia-Pacific and the fraternity rings business, from the implementation of new regulatory standards the Rest of the World.
NAFTA is expected to Precious Metals division, in December 2004 such as IFRS and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
show continued, albeit modest, growth whilst for 3 million was a first step in this Europe is expected to decline slowly.
Outlook progressively adapt our production capacities We are also repositioning Cookson from Trading in the early weeks of 2005 suggests to the evolution of our geographic markets, its historical perception as a highly cyclical that the robust market conditions experienced investing in new production capacity in stock and intend to resume a sustainable by the Ceramics division in 2004 are emerging markets while restructuring as dividend payment as soon as possible, continuing.
In the Electronics division, there necessary in mature markets.
with dividends funded from free cash flow.
was evidence in late January and February Cost reduction: We will simplify our that customers were fide-stocking inventories structure and take out costs, particularly Observations of some higher margin products, although overhead costs.
We have already identified This is my first year in the Group.
Since momentum now appears to be returning.
central cost savings of some 3 million.
joining in July, I have travelled extensively The relatively weak retail trading environment We will continue to focus on improving the around our global operations, meeting which impacted the Precious Metals effectiveness of our materials purchasing employees and customers.
This experience division throughout the second half of as nearly 50% of our cost of sales is in has convinced me that we have fundamentally 2004 continues but many jewellery industry raw materials.
sound positions in our markets, good observers remain optimistic of a recovery.
Specific examples of how these principles products and technologies and a great team From this position, we are confident that are being applied in each division can be of committed people worldwide who are we can deliver additional improvements in found in the Operating and Financial Review striving to deliver continuous improvements 2005 as we execute our strategy to enhance starting on page 11. in customer service and returns to our operational performance, strengthen our shareholders.
Some senior management balance sheet further via the disposal Objectives changes have been necessary and I am programme and build on our core businesses.
By focusing on our activities in this way, we very confident that the internal promotions will create the right platform from which we of Steve Corbett to Chief Executive of the can develop our higher growth, higher margin Electronics division, Rick Richesin to Chief businesses in order to achieve the margin Executive of the Laminates sector and targets outlined in the strategic review: Huub van Dunn to Chief Executive of the 10% return on sales by 2007 for both the Chemistry sector will bring improved Ceramics and Electronics divisions and performance in their respective businesses.
Nick Salmon Chief Executive 15% return on net sales value i. e. excluding I have been pleased to see a strong and 15 March 2005 Group: Group: Group: Group: Turnover by division Operating profit by division Turnover by location of operation Turnover by customer location 30% USA 44% Ceramics 48% Ceramics 33% USA 27% Continental Europe 39% Electronics 44% Electronics 29% Continental Europe 24% Asia-Pacific 17% Precious Metals 8% Precious Metals 21% Asia-Pacific 11% Rest of the World 9% United Kingdom 8% United Kingdom 8% Rest of the World 10 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 OPERATING REVIEW Group performance The fastest growing and most profitable worlds total production in 2004.
Excluding Turnover for the Groups continuing region for the Group continued to be AsiaChina, global production was 4.5% higher in operations, including joint ventures, was Pacific which accounted for 24% of the 2004 with the USA, the EU, Russia, Ukraine 11% higher in 2004 than 2003 at constant Groups customer base in 2004 and 47% and Brazil each growing by around 5%, exchange rates and 5% higher at reported of operating profit.
The USA remained the whilst Japan and South Korea were some exchange rates.
In the second half of 2004, Groups largest region in terms of turnover, 3% higher.
Steel prices rose strongly in 2004, turnover increased by 10% at constant representing 30% of the total in 2004.
There strengthening the industrys financial position.
exchange rates over the second half was a major improvement in profitability in The steel industry continued to consolidate of 2003 and fourth quarter turnover of this region where rationalisation initiatives in 2004.
Mittal Steel formerly LNM is 437 million was 4% higher than the that had commenced in 2003 and 2004 now the worlds largest steelmaker with same quarter last year.
These growth rates began to bear fruit.
capacity of some 70 million tonnes across reflect the fact that Group performance 14 countries.
The worlds top six producers had begun to recover in the second half Divisional performance represented 23% of global steel output in of 2003, particularly in the fourth quarter.
Ceramics division 2004, up from 19% in the previous year.
Higher profits from continuing operations Known in its markets as Vesuvius, The end markets of the Foundry, Glass across all three divisions resulted in a Cooksons Ceramics division is the world and Industrial Products sectors are generally 60% increase in operating profit in 2004 leader in the supply of advanced flow linked to GDP growth and therefore at constant exchange rates and a 47% control refractory products to the iron and benefited from a year of overall global increase at reported exchange rates.
It is also a leading supplier economic growth.
The most important quarter operating profit of 35.6 million of refractory linings and speciality refractory markets for these sectors are construction was 18% higher than the same quarter products for iron and steelmaking, the glass and automotive, both of which experienced last year at constant exchange rates.
All industry, ferrous and non-ferrous foundries improving market conditions in 2004. three divisions registered improvements and other industrial processes.
in operating profit for the year over 2003: Divisional performance and initiatives Ceramics increased by 10.6 million 23%, Market overview The Ceramics division recorded a strong Electronics was 30.0 million 154% higher The Ceramics division benefited from overall performance in 2004 as a result of and Precious Metals was up 1.7 million improved market conditions in its major the buoyant global steel industry and stable 23%.
Profits from joint ventures rose by markets that began to take hold in the conditions in its other markets.
Turnover 2.3 million at constant exchange rates second half of 2003 and continued for the year of 739 million, excluding to 4.0 million up 2.0 million at reported throughout 2004. joint ventures, was 5% higher than 2003 exchange rates.
The divisions largest sector is Iron at reported exchange rates and 11% higher Return on sales for the Groups and Steel, resulting in some two-thirds of at constant exchange rates.
Operating continuing operations of 7.0% improved by its sales and profits being linked to steel profit grew by 14% at reported exchange 2.1 percentage points in 2004 at constant production volumes.
In 2004 global steel rates to 56.8 million and was up 23% exchange rates and 2.0 percentage points production rose by almost 9%, surpassing at constant exchange rates.
Return on at reported exchange rates.
It has risen one billion tonnes for the first time.
China sales was 7.7%, up from 6.9% at constant sequentially in each half year since the confirmed its position as the worlds leading exchange rates in the previous year.
All divisions recorded steel producer with year-on-year growth fourth quarter was particularly strong with year-on-year rises in return on sales.
of 23% and accounted for over 25% of the sales at record levels.
All charts and tables at constant exchange rates unless otherwise stated.
11 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED The Iron and Steel sector accounted year.
Chinese production remained strong four new gates cover the full range from for 65% of turnover for the year, the Glass despite government attempts to slow very small mini mill ladles to very large sector accounted for 12% and the Foundry growth.
With its expanding VISO and slide integrated steel shop ladles and replace 28 and Industrial Processes sectors 9% and gate plants in Suzhou, Vesuvius is well existing models.
positioned to take advantage of future product, known as Thermacoat, has been Regionally, Europe including the UK was opportunities in China in spite of increasing successfully launched with equivalent the divisions largest region, accounting for local competition.
The Indian market properties to fibre material.
The USA contributed 30% continued to grow in line with spending on An in-depth review of NAFTA plants of turnover, Asia-Pacific 13% and the Rest infrastructure projects.
Thailand outperformed resulted in a decision to upgrade the of the World 16%.
its SE Asian neighbours, which remained VISO facilities at Charleston, Illinois and Two plants based in Belgium and Germany fairly static.
The Australian, Japanese, Monterrey, Mexico and to cease operations which made bricks used in glass-making Korean and Taiwanese markets were stable.
at the Hillsboro, Texas facility.
In China, furnaces were divested during 2004.
The enlarged 25-member EU reported it was decided to increase the Groups 5% growth in steel production in 2004, share of the slide gate joint venture with Sector performance with Poland, Spain and Italy recording Wuhan Iron & Steel from 25% to 50% with Iron and Steel the biggest increases.
Outside the EU, effect from 2005 and efficiency improvement The Iron and Steel sector principally supplies Turkey, Russia and Ukraine all increased measures are being implemented.
Investment two kinds of products to steelmakers: linings their production.
The divisions sales in is also being made to increase VISO capacity in the form of either bricks or monolithics Europe remained stable in the mature at the Suzhou plant.
which are used to line the main steelmaking markets and showed a stronger increase In Poland, in order to support the vessels: and flow control products which in the emerging markets of Central Europe.
growing Central European market, VISO control and protect the stream of molten 2004 was clearly a year of market production capacity is being increased and metal as it passes through the steelmaking recovery in NAFTA after several disappointing the slide gate refractory line modernised process, particularly during continuous years, with an overall increase of 5% in steel to enable Vesuvius Poland to manufacture casting, the most important of which are production, led by a 5% increase in the USA the latest slide gate refractory technology.
VISO products and slide gate systems.
The sectors Strong industry conditions resulted in sales grew in line with these stronger Glass a 13% increase in turnover for 2004 at production levels.
The Glass sector supplies a wide range constant exchange rates, an increase of 2004 saw several price increases in raw of refractories used in the glass-making 6% at reported exchange rates.
In addition, there were adverse industry and specialist ceramic products the high technology, higher margin flow price moves in oil, energy and transportation.
control products were some 7% higher As a result, Vesuvius has embarked upon a Demand for flat glass is primarily dependent than last year whilst lining and construction major price increase programme, with effect upon conditions in the construction and related sales increased by 15%.
from January 2005. automotive industries, as a result of which it Regionally, the sectors performance The Iron and Steel sector introduced a is prone to a reasonable degree of cyclicality.
reflected the trends seen in its served markets.
number of new products during the year.
After a number of challenging years, the last Steel production in Asia increased by The introduction of a new range of robust, two years have experienced recovery on 13% from 2003 to 2004.
The sectors user-friendly, low maintenance slide gate a global scale.
Despite competition from sales showed a 42% increase year-onmechanisms has been completed: the plastics and other materials, glass remains Ceramics: Ceramics: Ceramics: Turnover m Operating profit m Return on sales % 400 35 10 30 8 300 25 6 20 200 15 4 10 100 2 5 0 0 0 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 03 03 04 04 03 03 04 04 03 03 04 04 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 First half 358 330 First half 25.9 22.4 First half 7.2 6.8 Second half 381 337 Second half 30.9 23.8 Second half 8.1 7.1 Year 739 667 Year 56.8 46.2 Year 7.7 6.9 12 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 the material of choice for glazing and line furnaces which were previously the In line with general market trends, key the packaging of many drinks and other exclusive domain of steel rollers.
resources were relocated to China.
liquids, and the demand for container glass continues to be strong.
Foundry Industrial Processes Turnover for the Glass sector increased The Foundry sector supplies an extensive The Industrial Processes sector provides by 18% in 2004 compared with the previous range of high performance refractory products a wide range of refractory products for year at constant exchange rates, up 11% to ferrous and non-ferrous foundries.
a diversified range of industries which at reported exchange rates.
In the hot The sector recorded turnover for the in general follow GDP trends, including furnaces area, our US business Monofrax, year which was 10% higher than last year hydrocarbon processing, petrochemical, which manufactures fused cast products at constant exchange rates and 3% higher cement and incineration.
Unlike most of the used in glass-making furnaces, performed at reported exchange rates.
Ceramics divisions activities, the activities of strongly due to expansion in Europe and In NAFTA, market conditions improved in the Industrial Processes sector are mainly Asia and the weak US dollar.
In the area all areas, particularly in investment casting project-based and therefore linked to overall of glass transforming, all product lines and steel foundries.
In Europe, overall new investment and renewal projects.
performed well compared to last year.
The market conditions remained flat, although Sales for this sector in 2004 were 1% main applications for fused silica solar and investment casting activities were more lower than 2003 at constant exchange rates glass transforming enjoyed market growth.
robust as a result of improvements in the and 4% lower at reported exchange rates.
Solar grew by 30% and, despite strong aerospace and industrial gas turbine sectors.
The strongest performing area was competition, Vesuvius has maintained its NAFTA and Europe were both impacted construction and installation, driven by market share.
Technical ceramics also by imported castings from China.
In Asiaa number of major projects.
The primary grew strongly compared to last year.
Pacific, continued strong growth in the aluminium industry remained stable overall, Monofrax has developed a new application Chinese foundry sector reflects the general although NAFTA was weak.
in nuclear waste treatment furnaces and economic acceleration in that region.
Several new products were developed in thin glass applications.
Additionally, A number of new products were for various industries including new bricks new metallurgical applications are being introduced in 2004 including filters for iron for anode bake furnaces, chlorinators, gas found for Zyarock rollers in silicon steel and foundry applications and low pressure stalk turbines and coal gasification applications.
stainless steel annealing and galvanising.
A tubes for the manufacture of automotive A new range of basic bricks was introduced new generation of tempering rolls is being components including aluminium wheels.
for the cement and lime industry, enabling developed and jumbo crucibles are being Continued development of monolithics Vesuvius to provide a full lining offering.
In validated by Japanese customers, offering for the full range of foundry applications monolithics, a new range of non-wetting new opportunities for growing business.
supported growth in this important product monolithics has been developed for The fused silica plant in Kua Tang, China sector, particularly for aluminium casting aluminium casthouses.
was expanded during the past year with the applications, taking advantage of large opening of the second phase in January primary aluminium plant expansion 2004.
This plant is our most modern projects in the Middle East.
Development and, along with the production of glass of customised rotary degassers for use in tempering rollers, it can now manufacture the purification of molten aluminium also large diameter ceramic rollers, opening resulted in business expansion with major up new business opportunities in float aluminium manufacturers.
Ceramics: Ceramics: Ceramics: Turnover by sector Turnover by location of operation Turnover by location of customer 65% Iron and Steel 31% Continental Europe 28% USA 14% Industrial Processes 30% USA 27% Continental Europe 12% Glass 16% Rest of the World 19% Rest of the World 9% Foundry 13% Asia-Pacific 18% Asia-Pacific 10% United Kingdom 8% United Kingdom 13 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Electronics division Amongst the industrys end markets, market conditions, new product Overview the established market drivers of PCs and introductions, market share gains and a 2004 was a year of change for the mobile handsets grew strongly.
Turnover of 626 million, Electronics division with important PC shipments grew by nearly 12% in 2004, excluding joint ventures, increased by 10% developments in terms of both leadership accelerated by better performance and at reported exchange rates and by 19% and focus.
Mobile handset at constant exchange rates.
Operating Steve Corbett became Chief Executive volumes were nearly 30% higher than profit excluding joint ventures grew 138% of the division in October, succeeding in 2003 and recorded the highest ever at reported exchange rates to 49.5 million, Ray Sharpe who resigned in May.
Steve shipment level in the fourth quarter of 2004. an increase of 154% at constant exchange joined Cookson in 1990 and prior to this Hard disk drive unit volumes grew by 24% rates.
The divisions return on sales increased appointment had been Chief Executive versus 2003, fuelled by soaring demand from 3.7% in 2003 to 7.9% in 2004. of the Chemistry sector since 2002. for DVD recorders, game consoles and Assembly Materials was the divisions Steve has initially assumed responsibility MP3 players.
Consumer electronic devices largest sector, accounting for 45% of both for the Chemistry and Assembly Materials continue to drive the electronics industry to turnover and operating profit.
Chemistry, sectors as well as divisional staff and an ever-increasing degree.
the most profitable sector, accounted for R&D functions.
Regionally, Asia-Pacific experienced the 34% of turnover and 55% of operating Changing customer attitudes towards strongest industry growth in terms of both profit.
Laminates provided 21% of turnover suppliers of materials for PCB fabrication production and local end market demand.
and made a marginal contribution to and assembly resulted in a realignment of PC shipments, for example, grew by 16% operating profit.
the divisions product and service offerings.
over 2003, driven in particular by growth Asia-Pacific continued to be the Customers no longer value the one stop in China and India.
North America also divisions fastest growing region and shop approach which the divisions exhibited good year-on-year growth while was responsible for 36% of turnover, electronics materials businesses had pursued Europe was more subdued.
an increase of five percentage points in recent years.
Instead, they prefer to retain The transition to lead-free products over 2003.
To support this growth, new a competitive market throughout the supply accelerated in 2004 in line with new production and support facilities were chain.
The Electronics division has therefore regulations in Japan and the EU which opened in China and India during the sought to unbundle its PCB-oriented come into force in 2005-2006.
The use of course of the year.
Europe including the products and services, in particular lead-free products is a significant change, UK accounted for 31%, the USA 29% Laminates and Chemistry.
This has enabled not just for the Assembly Materials sector and the Rest of the World 4%.
the Chemistry sector to reposition resources whose solder products have traditionally 2004 represented the first full year that to its important industrial markets which contained lead.
Non-lead solders melt all three sectors implemented Six Sigma.
account for 50% of its business and at higher temperatures and so all other Laminates and Chemistry started down allowed Laminates to focus on returning PCB components, including laminates the Six Sigma path four years ago and to and then maintaining profitability.
and fabrication chemistries, must also have reaped many benefits in the form be able to withstand these temperatures.
of hard cash savings, improved systems Market overview and processes and most importantly a The improved market conditions that Divisional performance and initiatives large population of Black Belts and Green became evident in the last quarter of The Electronics divisions turnover and Belts who systematically solve everyday 2003 continued throughout 2004 for profits grew significantly over the previous problems using Six Sigma methodology.
much of the global electronics industry.
year in 2004 as a result of more favourable Assembly Materials introduced Six Sigma Electronics: Electronics: Electronics: Electronics: Turnover m Operating profit m Return on sales % Turnover by location of operation 350 30 10 300 8 250 20 6 200 150 4 10 100 36% Asia-Pacific 2 29% USA 50 26% Continental Europe 0 0 0 5% United Kingdom 4% Rest of the World H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 03 03 04 04 03 03 04 04 03 03 04 04 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 First half 308 258 First half 23.3 6.3 First half 7.6 2.4 Second half 318 269 Second half 26.2 13.2 Second half 8.2 4.9 Year 626 527 Year 49.5 19.5 Year 7.9 3.7 14 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
