OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Breathing new life into communities In the North West, Westbury is developing 287 new homes on the 40-acre Agecroft brownfield site, formerly occupied by a decommissioned power station.
The houses that we are building on the reclaimed land are based around an innovative village green design.
We are also undertaking extensive landscaping works, which have already involved the planting of over 1,000 trees.
In addition to creating an attractive new community, our development is supported by a new business park and transport infrastructure that will benefit the community.
environment Planning for customer appeal Brownfield plots now account for or revival of whole communities, informed from the outset, we reduce environmental advantages by The design of our sites and houses some 60% of our total land holdings, through initiatives including the our financial risk and liability, and are reducing in-home energy must be in harmony with Government in accordance with PPG3 guidelines.
provision of new jobs and amenities.
better able to negotiate the right consumption also offering our guidelines, but must also lead to the price to purchase the land.
customers attractive savings on their creation of communities where We have built up extensive Caring for the environment utility bills.
These advantages can be people actually want to live.
The experience over many years in Westbury undertakes a range of An environmental impact assessment further enhanced by the superior requirement for higher density stabilising and treating previously assessments on each and every site of each site then measures how its insulation qualities of Space4 developments, set out in Planning used land to make it suitable for we purchase and develop, designed development will affect the local construction methods.
Policy Guidance paper PPG3 of recycling.
This includes expertise in to measure and minimise the impact environment in its totality, assessing March 2000, created a range of demolition and the treatment of of our operations on the wider its consequences in terms of noise, We are constantly striving to reduce challenges for developers.
contamination, skills which are of environment.
air quality, visual impact and the lorry journeys and overall Westburys response was the ever-increasing value in reducing risk overall effect on the landscape.
We environmental impact by recycling Renaissance range of designs, which to our employees, contractors and Termed the EnviroCheck process, this also consider the impact on local more of the construction materials are fully compliant with PPG3, shareholders, and in improving the begins with a detailed risk analysis ecology and archaeology as well as we require on site.
On a typical providing us with a wide variety of product we can offer our customers.
that helps us to identify the full level the built heritage.
This enables us to brownfield site, old buildings are house sizes, styles and types.
These There are also many instances in of contamination on a site, identify factor into our plans a range of actions demolished and the materials work together in a range of ways, which we work closely with local the presence of any dangerous to protect historic features and to separated, enabling us to reduce enabling us to create high density authorities and planners to achieve elements such as asbestos, and accommodate or improve the habitat demand for aggregates by dividing, developments that are attractive and not just the regeneration of accurately project the cost of of local wildlife and flora.
On every crushing and re-using old concrete distinctive, and which preserve the particular sites, but the improvement clean - up operations.
By being fully site, we aim to preserve or improve and bricks.
Any recoverable metals privacy and individuality of each the existing ecological balance.
are sent offsite for recycling.
This greater density also makes Dangerous materials such as petrol each land acquisition potentially The EnviroCheck process also aids or diesel fuel are also separated for more profitable for Westbury, in turn the effectiveness of our operations safe disposal, enabling a high Local materials have been used at allowing more innovative features to by giving us a detailed understanding proportion of the affected earth to Cardinal's Gate, Ely top and also be incorporated in the design of sites from the outset of each sites work be cleaned and re-used on site.
Church Gate, Fenstanton designed in and homes.
Some 66% of our current requirements, so that these can be sympathy with the traditional surroundings.
We also help customers developments are based on the efficiently planned and phased.
to personalise their homes, often Renaissance portfolio of house types.
adding on conservatories and Care is taken to preserve the best arranging landscaping services.
Skilled in regeneration natural features of each site, for Increasing the proportion of new example through the retention of The thorough EnviroCheck houses built on previously existing watercourses and mature process completed at developed, or brownfield, land has trees wherever possible.
Designing planning stage identifies our impact on local habitat.
been a key aim of Government layouts to take advantage of natural planning policy in recent years.
light and shade can have significant 8 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 9 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Westbury aims to build communities that people really want to live in, while improving amenities for all local residents and enhancing both the landscape and the environment.
neighbourhood Achieving the right mix By building mixed use developments Dorchester, and we were proud to be homes and using two and a half and Westbury approaches site design incorporating offices and businesses, selected in 2002 to build the next three storey houses to provide extra with the aim of meeting Government we help to create real, living phase of this scheme.
We are currently accommodation while adding planning criteria while also communities where people can walk constructing 93 new properties interest through varying the roof exploiting opportunities to enhance to work and the residential areas do including office accommodation and line.
This helps to create a wide local communities and the not become empty during the day.
social housing, plus private dwellings range of attractive street scenes.
We take pride in the Intelligent use of road layouts can ranging from affordable one bedroom fact that our developments do not help to control vehicle access and apartments through to five bedroom The basic Renaissance designs can look like the bland, zoned housing speed without the need for invasive family homes.
be tailored to reflect the style of estates that dominated post-war traffic calming measures.
The siting existing regional architecture, Britain for so long, but preserve the of differing house types around A Renaissance in design through the use of local stone or best features of existing villages and mews, lanes, squares and courtyards The Renaissance range of house brick cladding, roof tiles, windows, those with large expanses of townscapes.
Our imaginative creates visual interest and also type, enables us to create doors and other external features.
An concrete that do not allow natural development planning takes account allows the integration of social and developments that achieve full PPG3 attractive environment is ensured by drainage into the earth, generate The need for high density is volumes of rainwater which the river of a wide range of social, economic private housing, avoiding social compliance on densities, yet are preserving the best natural landscape managed attractively whether and environmental considerations, exclusion and segregation.
aesthetically pleasing and most features and enhancing them system simply cannot handle.
This apartments like Ellens Gate, Brentwood opposite or with the aim of providing better importantly places where our wherever possible, for example by contributes to flooding and also traditional homes like Westbury amenities and an enhanced Many of these principles were customers really want to live.
advance planting of additional mature prevents the replenishment of Mere, Quedgeley top and infrastructure for our neighbours as pioneered by the Prince of Wales in Externally, we offer a range of trees.
Smaller front gardens help to groundwater supplies.
well as our customers, and ensuring his Duchy of Cornwalls Poundbury classical designs, mixing terraced make more efficient use of land while good overall environmental practice.
development on the outskirts of properties with larger detached reducing maintenance for home We have addressed these issues buyers and contributing to tidier and through the use of Sustainable better looking neighbourhoods.
Urban Drainage Systems SUDS, which take a holistic approach that replicates the natural environment Internally, the layouts used in the Appealing densities Renaissance range have generated as closely as possible and so very positive feedback from our minimises the impact of building on Little Shilling at Shaftesbury in Dorset was the first Westbury development to be customers, particularly for features ecological systems.
The drainage built using the Renaissance portfolio of house designs.
The properties on this such as the popular room in the roof.
systems under our sites may feed into attractive site range from two bedroom terraced houses to three storey, balancing tanks, small lagoons or five bedroom detached family homes.
Little Shilling achieved a final density of Seeking sustainability artificial lakes.
These can be designed 14 homes and over 16,000 square feet of living space per acre compared with In the UK the management of water to look like natural ponds, providing a the norm for pre PPG3 developments of 11 units and 13,000 square feet per acre.
has become a critical issue in recent home for local wildlife such as frogs, Higher densities can be achieved, without sacrificing visual appeal or years as both flooding and drought newts, fish and birds, and also an marketability, by providing higher proportions of terraced and three storey units.
attractive and tranquil area for the warnings have become more frequent.
Extensive built-up areas, especially enjoyment of residents.
10 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 11 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW The key criteria by which we measure our effectiveness as a housebuilder are quality, efficiency and responsibility with a special emphasis on health and safety.
responsible Efficient use of energy is also a transport systems as a key part of also serves to make the streets less How we build critical issue for the environment our design process, and work with cluttered and more attractive.
The majority of our houses are and for household budgets.
We assist planners and other partners not just currently still built by traditional our customers to make informed to make public transport more easily Westbury itself has taken a range of construction methods, with 30% of choices about their homes by available to our customers, but to measures designed to cut down on homes last year provided by Space4.
publishing the SAP ratings of every improve the local infrastructure and transport usage.
The adoption of Our key aims are to ensure that we house we build, and making these travel patterns overall.
Space4 means that significantly fewer provide a high quality finished available through our show houses lorries are needed to make deliveries product while maximising efficiency and in customer information packs.
Many of our sites incorporate attractive to each building site, and also and minimising the impact of our walkways and cycle paths designed significantly reduces the need to operations on the environment.
On a number of recent projects, we to allow direct and easy access to transport off-site the waste generated We also seek to source our materials have reviewed the overall local amenities.
We co-operate with by traditional building methods.
responsibly, working with supplier waste levels still further, in addition sustainability of our developments the local planning authorities on The group-wide installation of video partners who adhere to our own high to the obvious environmental using the BREs EcoHomes rating transport master plans to ensure conferencing facilities has cut down standards.
that housing is laid out sympathetically, on travel to and from meetings, importantly, we aim to create working structured around village and wherever possible we incorporate eliminating unnecessary fuel conditions that are safe for employees, Last year 60% of our regions had no concepts like Shenley Park top and Coton Meadows, Facilitating Green transportation traditional village features such as consumption and wasted time, while contractors and visitors alike.
environmental notices issued against Rugby, traditional finishes can Reducing the number of unnecessary curving and narrowed roads to still allowing us to enjoy the them.
A total of eight complaints be combined with the latest car journeys can make a major reduce the speed of traffic.
Most traditional benefits of person-toReducing emissions and waste Space4 technology.
were registered within other regions, contribution to enhancing the houses have parking spaces located person communication.
Over recent years we have achieved all of which were speedily rectified.
We look closely at to the rear of the property, which a massive reduction in the amount of waste going to landfill from a Promoting best office practice and distributed in this format to typical building site.
We have Waste reduction is not confined to solicitors and office personnel.
accomplished this by progressively Recycling policies apply across all building sites.
Office practices across building up our expertise in waste the Group have also been streamlined, our offices for remaining paper items Taking a holistic approach separation and in the recycling of with development of our intranet and for other consumables such as Westbury Centrals new 500-home development in Bicester, Oxfordshire, has taken materials on site.
Space4 promises this year significantly cutting down empty toner cartridges.
a lead in conforming with the principles of minimal environmental impact from further advances in this area, typically on printed documentation.
Reports drainage on housing developments, outlined in the Governments recent PPG25.
We are in now available electronically include The creation of swales, or small depressions, alongside the main site roads allows the process of setting specific weekly returns, home exchange rainwater to dissipate naturally rather than running off rapidly through drains.
It targets to measure our performance reports, land reports and production has also created new wildlife habitats and encouraged indigenous plant species in this area, and expect this exercise plans, and Group policy is that all such as reeds to colonise the area.
Most of the farmland acquired to provide to be completed during 2004.
The new reports should be published in public open space has been left close to its natural condition, with a brook, water rising trend in landfill taxes creates this way.
All home sales forms from features and hedgerows complemented by the distinctive new Bicester henge.
an economic incentive to reduce our sites are generated electronically 12 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 13 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Paving a fulfilling career path At the Celebrating Construction exhibition held at G-Mex in Manchester in November 2003, Westbury North West took an innovative approach to encouraging students to take an interest in a career in housebuilding.
Our team invited visitors to go back to the drawing board by developing their own personalised house designs, using Westburys sophisticated CAD technology.
This attracted considerable interest in an event that drew over 1,000 students aged between 14 and 19.
Westbury is planning to forge even closer relationships with regional schools and colleges, by organising consultations with teachers and course tutors, and is considering a range of work-shadowing opportunities to give students direct experience of various aspects of the business.
commitment Building supplier partnerships from FIRA Club Green to the SFI influenced by the identification and comparison of Group and regional Safety Managers: the issuing of We work closely with selected Sustainable Forest Initiative.
evaluation of industry best practice, performance against other Safety Alerts which alert all staff to suppliers who fulfil certain key criteria, together with the analysis of regular housebuilder clients of the NHBC.
As significant health and safety including adherence to sound Health and safety performance statistics.
The Executive a result, and through the identification occurrences on site and provide working practices and environmental Westbury is aware of the importance Committee is fully supported by its of key objectives over the past two advice on how to avoid similar standards, as well as an ability to offer of good health and safety practice health and safety advisers, NHBC years, significant performance occurrences.
Health and safety is a consistent value for money.
Wherever and is committed to raising awareness Health and Safety Services, who improvements have been achieved, mandatory agenda item at all plc appropriate we enter formal of, and development of, a health and provide advice and guidance on all and the Group now consistently and regional board meetings, in partnership agreements, typically for safety culture throughout the Group.
aspects of health and safety, in performs better than the all builder addition to various operational responsibilities.
Performance against a minimum period of two years.
addition to carrying out regular average, as calculated by the NHBC.
Furthermore, A new Westbury Health and Safety audits of site practices and Planning health and safety guidelines are key criteria is to be constantly Westbury aims to eliminate all Executive Committee was set up in Supervisor duties on behalf of the Since 2001 the Committee has issued to all staff to ensure that monitored and further training will be provided as required.
The products from unknown and 2001 to include senior directors from regional businesses.
produced a comprehensive suite of everyone is aware of his or her controversial timber sources, and to head office and regional boards, policies and guidelines.
Most individual health and safety company also operates a health and safety training matrix which this end all our suppliers have to including Space4 and Incresco.
The Through constant monitoring of recently, the company has seen the responsibilities.
This is monitored disclose their environmental Committee is chaired by a plc main adherence to group policy and appointment of a Regional Health through the annual performance identifies health and safety training commitments.
The majority of timber board director and meets bi-monthly.
procedures on site, the NHBC is able and Safety Manager in each of its 9 appraisal process.
Key health and needs for all staff within the Group, including site based and office staff.
products we use are certified by FSC The main objective of the Committee to provide comprehensive bioperating regions, with the objective safety matters are communicated on Forest Stewardship Council, PEFC to develop a health and safety monthly reports highlighting key to further increase our constant a regular basis through the core brief In order to benchmark current Pan-European Forest Certification culture within the organisation is issues and recommendations for focus on health and safety issues, process and the internal magazine, and ISO14001.
Our suppliers work achieved through the creation of improvements.
The statistical better enable implementation of Stage 9.
All communication is backed performance and identify further with a variety of organisations policies and strategy information provided enables Group policy and ensure compliance up by the use of the company intranet areas of improvement, the NHBC is to carry out detailed accreditation with health and safety standards.
with a health and safety section providing a library of reference audits of management systems and John Prescott, Deputy Prime Minister process adherence in all 9 regions We recognise the importance of material and policy documents.
Government communication in our goal to raise during early 2004. is encouraging the use of offsite fabrication to help meet the nation's awareness of health and safety During 2004, to recognise the housing needs.
The accreditation audits have been issues and have implemented a increasing need to comply with series of strategies involving directly CDM Construction Design and developed by the NHBC in consultation with the HSE.
Following employed and sub contracted staff, Management legislation, which contractors, suppliers and visitors.
affects not only health and safety a review and appropriate action to Health and Safety has been a These include a mandatory but also the efficient planning of meet all the criteria of the NHBC priority throughout all aspects audit, we will achieve accreditation programme of toolbox talks on all operational tasks, Westbury is of construction.
From school visits opposite top, integrating on-site developments: regular meetings of introducing additional training confirming our commitment to high practices to recognising achievements standards of heath and safety the Health and Safety Executive programmes to ensure relevant throughout the Group.
Committee and Regional Health and staff are aware of their legal management.
14 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 15 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Our newer businesses were built in response to changing market needs, driven by our clear customer focus.
All are now entering the delivery phase of their development cycles.
Space4 winning Solutions and Incresco Industry leading technology and the higher standard of finish this facilitates, as well as the consistency record 3.6 million contribution to Westburys Space4 system is a leader facilitates.
of quality and product performance.
The range of in high quality, fast-track, off-site They also commended Space4 for its Solutions packages and products construction a technology which Our highly automated factory at ability to think outside the box.
includes upgraded kitchens and offers benefits to both builders and Castle Bromwich produced over bathrooms, competitively priced white home buyers, and which the 1,300 house shells during the year, a Space4 has also participated in an goods such as dishwashers, ovens Government is keen to encourage as volume increase of more than 100%, initiative with The Housing and washing machines, and external part of its drive to improve the supply and is performing in line with our Corporation, which funds and regulates additions such as conservatories and of new homes.
housing associations in England, to landscaped gardens.
develop a range of accredited Space4 products are strong and very In August we welcomed a visit from standard house plans for social During the year our first Solutions accurate, being based on patented the Deputy Prime Minister, John housing developments.
Of the 21 department store completed a independent and impartial advice on technology for the injection of highPrescott, as part of his drive to compliant designs currently displayed successful pilot in Stratford, presenting the most suitable products for each performance insulation into kiln-dried encourage increased use of offsite on The Housing Corporations in room settings the full range of customer, from the huge and often bewildering range of options available timber panels to create easily fabrication to meet the countrys website, 17 are by Space4.
hundreds of interior products and Incresco, Space4 above and assembled wall units, including future housing needs.
We were much choices available to the Westbury in the market.
Last year they arranged Solutions all demonstrate our responsiveness: to the needs of factory installed doors and windows, encouraged by his positive We believe that our ability to deliver homebuyer.
It attracted customers a total of 1,600 mortgages with a the industry in meeting the demand and floor cassettes.
comments on the range of Space4 dedicated, cost-effective products for from all over the region, many of combined value of 190 million, for more housing and to the needs designs, the quality of the products providers of affordable social whom chose their additional options using over 60 different lenders.
and wishes of our customers.
The house shells can be assembled and the time savings that the housing creates considerable before they had even reserved a on site by a team of four people to process delivers.
potential for the development of home.
The success of this concept in Customers can access the service range of other financial and search create a secure, weatherproofed, Space4s external sales.
Its products generating additional sales will lead through the medium of their choice, websites.
In total we submitted structure within one working day.
Achieving growing recognition are also attracting growing interest to the adoption of the complete ranging from face-to-face over 5,400 applications for almost The homes are then completed Last year Space4 was declared the from other major private Solutions house as our model for appointments, personal service through our call centre, or self-service 600 million of cover, making using traditional materials such as clear winner as Construction Product housebuilders.
Together we believe Westbury Direct in all regions during Incresco a significant volume brick and stone for external cladding.
Manufacturer of the Year in the that these are likely to lift sales the current year.
The telephone introducer of business to the life Internal fitting-out can be done Contract Journal Construction outside the Group to around 20% of response team of 10 people at our new insurance sector.
We expect continued simultaneously, delivering total Industry Awards.
Such was its margin the current years expected output of Finding the right financial products Telford call centre handled over 5,000 growth of the business to lead to the savings of up to half the time required of victory that none of the some 2,500 homes.
Incresco, like Westbury Direct, has enquiries each month last year.
Online sales showed the most dramatic arrangement of over 1 billion of by conventional building methods.
customary highly commended been developed in response to our cover in the current year.
awards were made to any of the Solutions to everyday needs customers needs - in this case for growth, increasing by 500% to become Space4 products have been other 12 contestants.
The judges The Westbury Direct Solutions range home-related financial products such a significant revenue stream.
consistently well received by our were impressed by the precision of of home options has gone from as mortgages and protection insurance.
customers, who particularly welcome the automated manufacturing strength to strength over the last We have further strengthened the Direct sales of life insurance on a non-advice basis were aided by their superior insulation and the process and the speed and accuracy year, generating increased sales and Incresco team of IFAs Independent greater accuracy of the internal shell of on-site assembly that this customer satisfaction, and making a Financial Advisers, who can provide partnerships and links with a wide 16 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 17 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Westbury focuses on two key groups: its customers and its people.
Meeting their needs is crucial to commercial success and to retaining our winning team.
responsive Listening and responding Informing and caring high quality people to work in We know that individuals make a to help our people identify and Westbury has been surveying the Following examination of best practice housebuilding and then to recruit difference at Westbury, and encourage develop the skills needed to become views of its customers for several among housebuilders in the USA, and retain the very best.
Providing participation at all levels during our more effective managers.
Our first major Home Owners where the culture of customer care job satisfaction is critical to this, and decision-making processes.
Our open in developing our own talent to fill Survey in 1998 achieved a remarkably is better developed than in the UK, we take particular pride in having management style promotes the free senior positions, and formally plan high 40% response rate from just we introduced a range of initiatives achieved two notable firsts for our flow of information throughout the for succession within the over 11,000 customers, and provided designed to promote the idea of industry: as the first major organisation, giving employees organisation in all key areas.
a wealth of information on what they partnership with our customers.
housebuilder to achieve IIP Investors access to the knowledge they need liked, what they wanted and what we In People accreditation as long ago to do their jobs and also setting their Westbury is also seeking to address could improve.
So much so that we An important part of this process as 1995, and as the first to feature in responsibilities in the context of our the key skills shortages which are have been repeating the survey on was the launch in 2000 of our first the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies overall corporate objectives.
We also one of the most serious constraints a regular basis ever since, and have Moving In and Whats Covered to Work For in the UK guide in 2002. ensure that both individual on both our own building based our entire customer brochures.
These clearly describe contributions and effective teamwork programme and the growth of the satisfaction improvement strategy the whole process of buying a new The process of Investors In People are recognised and rewarded.
The apprenticeship We have run a successful on the feedback obtained.
home, the key decisions to be made, re-accreditation, which we have scheme pioneered by our South apprenticeship scheme for the respective responsibilities of voluntarily undertaken on an annual Training for the future West region, in partnership with the 10 years above left, and support Westbury Direct and Incresco were our builder and buyer, the key aspects basis each year since 1998, provides Our values ensure that every Construction Industry Training Board, our staff through Skills Review Workshops and Management direct and positive response to the of house maintenance and the extent us with valuable feedback from our Westbury employee enjoys a working is now in its tenth year, offering three Development Programmes.
service delivery gap identified by our of warranty cover.
Having been excluded from environment that is based on mutual year paid apprenticeships in first survey, which underlined our purchasers are properly informed in assessment by the Sunday Times in trust, and in which equality of bricklaying and carpentry, with customers desire for a one-stop-shop this way, we have helped our 2003, following the Prowting opportunity is guaranteed.
They also customer skills as an integral part of capable of meeting all their needs employees to form much more acquisition, we were delighted to mean that all our people are the course.
Since its inception the for home-related products and services.
positive relationships with customers feature again in 2004 at 74th place in encouraged to make the most of scheme has trained more than 100 throughout the house buying process.
their 100 Best Companies to Work their talents and so develop an young people in essential skills for a In 1998 we launched the Westbury For league table.
Customer Satisfaction Index CSI, Where complaints do arise, they are developed in conjunction with NOP recorded in our internal customer With an annual training budget of to measure customer satisfaction information system that forms part of around 1 million, involving the objectively and comprehensively.
The time taken investment of more than 4,000 man The CSI is compiled every three months to respond to complaints is closely days, training is a key component of following telephone interviews with monitored, together with customer the Westbury culture.
customers, and has helped us to satisfaction with their resolution.
Our programmes are fully inclusive deliver and improve our service to and cover all areas of the business, the customers both on the day of The best team including annual Skills Review move-in and in our response to any Westbury values its reputation as a Workshops and Management subsequent problems and requests.
good employer, and aims to attract Development Programmes designed 18 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 19 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Our involvement in the community ranges from high level consultation with the Government and within our industry to working closely with our neighbours in the design of new developments.
community Social responsibility not just with us as the developer, but the whole population of the area, Our approach involves placing our We believe that our responsibility to with the whole range of other whether in the form of public open existing expertise at the disposal of create a profitable, stable company interested parties such as council space, improved transport links, strategic social housing partners, in that provides excellent returns to our planning officers, architects, additional school places or new new collaborative relationships shareholders can be compatible with environmental agencies and utilities community centres.
designed to help meet the nations the interests of a range of other providers.
This enables us to housing needs.
We have good internal understand the needs of local Promoting affordability gives us a particular advantage in governance structures that are being communities and gives us the With over 40 years experience in the making available a wide range of extended to address wider issues, in opportunity to incorporate their ideas UK housing market, Westbury is well suitable designs, fully accredited by line with our fundamental cultural in our plans wherever possible.
placed to help deliver more social The Housing Corporation, that can commitment always to explore, and affordable housing, in line with be built quickly and with significant reflect and, where appropriate, Once building work commences, we Government targets.
These seek to improvements in build quality and consultative bodies.
This attitude is intrinsic to aim to minimise disruption to local increase the supply of rented efficiency compared with our senior management Westbury as it fuels product residents and to keep them informed accommodation, shared ownership conventional methods.
In addition, involvement, our personnel take part With our focus on building in panel and committee development, innovative design, of progress, continuing to involve housing and other low cost homes, Westbury is seeking to promote communities, it is important to continuous improvement, customer them where we can.
We also including those required by key mixed private and social housing memberships at all levels.
Westbury consult with local people.
We try to minimise disruption and bring care, the health, safety and frequently contribute to local workers.
developments through its innovative intends to stay very much at the wider benefits.
In Bagworth happiness of our staff all of which amenities that are of value to approach to site design.
forefront of industry thinking in all above we brought mains gas to are crucial to our financial success.
these areas, building on our the town for the first time.
reputation for innovation and a Working with Government and industry Encouraging involvement Our directors and senior managers progressive approach.
Community planning in action Wherever our developments are participate in a wide range of we have also provided all new located, we aim to build Westbury South West has actively involved the local community from the industry and governmental bodies Fund-raising for good causes Westbury homeowners with BHF communities rather than just that help to form public policy on UK Encouraging support for good information packs on healthy eating outset in its Plymstock Quarry Development in Plymouth, participating in two causes remains a key part of the individual new homes.
That means community planning days in June and July 2003.
The first brought together housing.
Our engagement with and exercise.
working with our neighbours and policy makers and opinion formers Westbury culture.
community groups and residents with a wide range of Government agencies, homebuyers from the outset, to over the last year has included City Council departments and local service providers covering fields including Our regional businesses throughout establish and sustain good relations education, public transport, policing and environmental conservation.
Chaired contributing to Kate Barkers review For the last three years we have the UK have continued to support a based on mutual understanding.
of the housing market and to a participated in a corporate range of locally based charities.
by experts from The Princes Foundation, the day aimed to explore the key sponsorship with The British Heart Community involvement is structural, ecological and geological challenges that would influence consultation group set up by the encouraged from an early stage of Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Foundation, which raised significant development of a masterplan for the site, and to establish the concerns and site development, to ensure that our John Prescott.
We are also closely amounts through Group donations aspirations of local people.
The second event provided an opportunity plans are in tune with the wishes of for residents to make a hands-on input into detailed planning of the involved with the Housing Forum, and fund-raising events devised by local residents.
Wherever possible, Major Housebuilders Group, The our staff.
Some of the money raised development, including the preparation of their own plans for the layout was used to buy defibrillators within we participate in community planning of residential areas, workplaces, community facilities and transport links.
Housing Corporation and English days at which residents can engage Partnerships, along with many other each of the Westbury regions, and 20 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 21 OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW Teaching responsibility Westbury believes in engaging with local communities and this includes making children aware that building sites are dangerous places on which to play.
It is our practice for senior managers to approach and engage with local schools, visiting them to spell out the dangers and distribute warning literature, but also encouraging supervised site visits so that young peoples natural curiosity can be satisfied.
Like all members of the public visiting our sites on accompanied visits, school parties are provided with appropriate protective footwear and hard hats.
supportive Our policies Equal Opportunities Policy Ethical behaviour We have formal policies that clearly Westbury provides a working Westbury is totally committed to a state our position and aims for every environment that actively opposes code of ethics designed to promote area of our business.
These include: any form of discrimination being honesty, integrity, fairness and practised against its job applicants mutual respect in each and every Health and Safety Policy and employees on the grounds of business transaction undertaken by This is made available to all staff via their sex, race, marital status, creed, the organisation.
Training is given to all disability or sexual persuasion.
A on-site staff to support its effective formal policy is held on the Westbury In all our operations we act as application.
intranet to give guidance on equal responsible corporate individuals opportunities.
in respect of safety practices and Environmental Policy environmental standards.
We conduct Also given to all staff and suppliers, Westbury is committed to upholding our relationships with all external the Environmental Policy is its equal opportunities policy and to organisations to high ethical published on our website at acting in accordance with both the standards.
It is our duty to provide www.
co. uk letter and the spirit of this policy.
a safe working place and to operate in an environmentally sound manner.
When it comes to the law, there is no deviation.
We seek to comply with all laws, bylaws and regulations, local, national and European Union legislation.
Protecting our past During the last six months Westbury Central has hired Foundations Archaeology to excavate the evidence of up to 10 Iron Age houses in Lechlade, as well as extensive features from the later medieval period.
In addition to tracing the design and layout of the buildings, the dig has yielded a wealth of fascinating artefacts including pottery and copper thimbles.
This has proved an important and exciting site, yielding a great deal of information about Lechlades history.
Once the excavations are completed Westbury is planning to build 31 homes on the site.
22 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 23 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS board of directors Geoffrey Maddrell for the housebuilding industry.
Martin of our West Midlands region before Chairman 67 also acted as Chairman of the House taking up his current appointment in Builders Federation Training and April 2000 and has the additional roles MA Cantab MBA Colombia University has been non-executive Recruitment Council until 2002.
In of Divisional Chairman for three regions addition, he is a member of the Major and Chairman of the Health and Safety Chairman of Westbury since 1992.
He has had a long-standing involvement Housebuilders Group.
Colin is currently and strategic interest in the building a non-executive Director of Rockwool John Bennett Ltd and NHBC Building Contract Services.
sector, initially on the board of Bowater where he was responsible for Finance Director 56 FCA is a chartered accountant and was Ian Durant developing their building products activities.
In 1999 he was appointed appointed as Finance Director when he Non-executive Director 45 Chairman of the UNITE Group plc, the joined the Company in 1992.
He has BA, FCA, FCT has been a non-executive wide experience of this sector and was director of Westbury since October 2003.
UKs leading specialist provider of student and key worker previously a director of Beazer plc, with Ian has a wealth of experience in financial responsibility for its UK international and commercial accommodation and is also Chairman of BuildStore Limited, the growing hub operations.
He was Finance Director for the self-build market.
His other responsibility for the financial of Thistle Hotels Plc from 2001 to 2003 management of the Group and is also and for the previous twelve years was major area of interest is in private investor and employee shareholder responsible at Board level for based in Asia working in the retail and Personnel and Business Systems.
During that time he was participation in company equity, as former Chairman of ProShare UK Finance Director of both Hong Kong Limited, which he set up in 1991.
He is Nigel Fee Land Holdings and then Dairy Farm Managing Director of the Homes International both UK listed companies.
non-executive Chairman of ISIS UK Select Trust plc.
He was also formerly Division 53 BSc Econ joined Westbury in 1991 as Derek Wilson Chairman of Glenmorangie and of LDV Ltd, the van specialists.
He was also a Regional Managing Director.
He was Non-executive Director 59 Chief Executive of Tootal Group plc appointed Group Operations Director BA FCA has been a non-executive in 1996 and Managing Director of the director of Westbury since 1996.
Derek during a period of international development.
Finally he is also a civil Homes Division in 2000.
In that role he has wide ranging experience in the is responsible for the management and sector and was, until December 2002, service commissioner.
co-ordination of all regional activity to Chief Executive of Slough Estates plc, 12 3 Martin Donohue achieve the business goals and the one of the UKs largest property implementation of Group policies.
investment companies, following Chief Executive 58 FCIOB joined the Group in 1972 and Nigel has extensive experience in the periods as Group Managing Director new homes market and has previously and Finance Director.
He has held was a member of the management 45 6 buy-out team in 1984.
A member of the worked with Wimpey Homes and senior positions at Cadbury Schweppes Board since the Groups flotation Charles Church.
plc, Wilkinson Match Limited and is currently a non-executive director of 1986, he acted as Operations Director prior to his appointment as Chief Colin Cole Candover Investments plc.
78 Deputy Managing Director of the Executive in 1995.
He has vast experience and knowledge of the Homes Division 45 Neil Chandler housebuilding industry, both in the UK FCCA was appointed to the Board in Company Secretary 48 February 2001.
Colin joined Westbury FCMA is also Deputy Group Finance and in North America, and is deeply committed to supporting growth and in April 1984 as Group Accountant, and Director.
Neil joined Westbury in was Finance Director of both the South November 1981.
He became Finance development in the sector.
He has 1Geoffrey Maddrell 2Martin Donohue served on the Board of the Housing Wales and South West regions before Director of the Southern region in 1987 3John Bennett Forum and was the Chairman of their becoming Deputy Group Finance and moved to the Northampton region 4 Nigel Fee Director in 1994.
He carried out the as Finance Director in 1991.
He was Customer Satisfaction Committee, a 5Colin Cole working group responsible for role of Company Secretary between appointed to his current position in 6Ian Durant 1995 and 2001 and also spent two October 2000. developing customer satisfaction 7Derek Wilson 8Neil Chandler measures which provide benchmarks years as Regional Managing Director 24 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 25 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 26 FINANCIAL REVIEW This has been another excellent year for the Group with The Group has in place hedging instruments to ensure that 300 pre-exceptional earnings growth of 23% to 65.3p per share.
million of the Groups debt is covered by caps, fixed rate loans or fixed rate swaps to ensure that the Group has protection against These results deliver an eleventh consecutive year of growth in adverse interest rate movements through to 2007 and 2010. pre-exceptional earnings and profit before taxation.
The dividend has also grown in each of those eleven years and by or more than The Groups policy, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is to 10% per annum for the last eight years.
be in a position to take advantage of floating rates on part of its debt but also to be protected against significant increases in Accounting policies The Group has adopted the same interest rates through the use of fixed rate loans or straightforward accounting policies as last year in drawing up the financial hedging instruments.
As discussed above, the Group has a statements.
In accordance with our normal practice the financial mixture of floating and fixed rate debt at year end as shown on statements are made up to the nearest Friday to 29 February, page 56.
Net interest payable was covered 6.1 times by operating which this year was 27 February 2004. profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, in the Going concern The directors, after making enquiries, consider financial year.
that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation for The Group has no significant foreign exchange exposure.
the foreseeable future and have, therefore, continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Profit and loss account Turnover for the year increased by 11% As with all business forecasts, the directors cannot guarantee that to 879.0 million.
The number of private house sales for the Group the going concern basis will remain appropriate, given the was 4,400 2003: 4,461.
The average sales price for the Group was inherent uncertainties about future events.
The turnover for the year includes 31.4 million 2003: 19.0 million from land sales.
Capital structure and treasury policy During the year, the company issued 419,315 ordinary shares for a cash consideration The operating margin for the Homes Business, before goodwill of 927,000 nominal value as a result of the exercise of executive amortisation and exceptional costs, was 16.0% 2003:14.8% for share options.
This represented 0.4% of called up Share Capital.
The average sales price for the year benefited from the sale of certain Prowting properties on underperforming sites The Groups overall policy is to finance its operations through a identified at the time of the acquisition in 2002.
These sales combination of shareholder funds, long term loans, medium term marginally reduced the overall operating margin in the year.
bank loans and short term bank overdrafts.
The Space4 business progressed in line with our expectations The Group has over 475 million facilities available comprising and produced a loss for the year of 2.0 million 2003: 3.5 million the following: loss.
This business is now in line to achieve a minimum of breakMedium Term Bank Loans even in financial year 2004 05.
215 million revolving credit facilities to 2007.
Incresco achieved break even over the year, a significant and 45 million facility, secured to finance the Prowting expected improvement from the loss of 1.2 million in 2002 03.
Acquisition in 2002, which amortises progressively in the period to 2007.
Westbury Direct has continued to increase its contribution to Group operating profit with 3.6 million 2003: 2.75 million for Long Term Debt the year from the sale of a range of value added products and 50 million eleven year unsecured loan note due in 2010. services to our customers.
US Private Placement arranged in April 2003 which provides: Group profit before taxation and exceptional item has increased $75 million senior unsecured loan note due in 2010. by 24% for the year to 108.6 million 2003: 87.6 million.
$160 million senior unsecured loan note due in 2013.
During the year, and as discussed in the Chairmans Statement These US dollar loans have been converted to sterling through and Chief Executives Review, the Group undertook a restructuring cross currency swaps which leaves the Group with no exposure exercise as part of its drive to produce further operating to the US dollar.
In November we combined our West and Southern Short Term Debt regions which will produce annual savings of approximately 20 million overdraft facilities renewable annually.
3.5 million and in January 2004 we announced the departure of 15 million uncommitted bank lines.
The overall cost of this restructure was 1.9 million.
26 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 27 FINANCIAL REVIEW The table shown below is included as the directors believe that it Balance Sheet will assist shareholders to understand the underlying trading Fixed assets The decrease in tangible fixed assets during the performance of the Group year represented the sale of certain freehold properties acquired through the Prowting acquisition in 2002.
The decrease in Space4 & intangible fixed assets represents the amortisation of goodwill in Homes Incresco Group accordance with our accounting policies.
m m m Turnover 875.1 3.9 879.0 Current Assets Operating profit 140.4 2.0 138.4 Land and work in progress During the year, the Company Exceptional item 1.9 1.9 secured 5,200 plots 2003: 4,700 plots.
The 2003 figures included Goodwill amortisation 7.1 7.1 those acquired with Prowting.
The average cost of plots acquired Statutory operating profit 131.4 2.0 129.4 was 43,400 for the year 2003: 45,000.
At the financial year end Interest 22.8 22.8 the average cost of a plot in the balance sheet was 38,200 Profit before tax 108.6 2.0 106.6 2003: 37,500.
Operating margin 16.0% 15.7% At the year end the Group owned or controlled 16,100 plots before exceptional item and goodwill amortisation including 3,800 plots secured but conditional upon planning consent.
Taxation The Group would anticipate, in normal circumstances, incurring a standard tax charge except that the amortisation of At year end, the strategic land bank stands at 22,200 plots with goodwill arising from the Maunders acquisition in 1998 and the over 1,300 plots being transferred to our consented land bank Prowting acquisition in 2002 is not tax deductible.
The effective from this source during the year.
tax charge on current year profits is 32% Debtors Earnings Earnings per share before exceptional costs increased At the end of the year debtors amounted to 31.4 million, a to 65.3 pence from 53.2 pence in 2002 03, an increase of 23%.
reduction of 7.2 million from the previous financial year mainly The Group has achieved a compound growth in annual earnings, as a result of a reduction in land debtors.
before exceptional costs, of more than 20% over the last eight years.
Unadjusted earnings per share increased by 27% to 64.2 Current liabilities Creditors decreased by 27.9 million during pence.
the year, mainly as a result of the reduction in land vendor creditors from 93.0 million in 2003 to 70.4 million in 2004.
Dividends The final dividend has been increased to 9.55 pence The bill of exchange method of financing land purchases has per share, giving a total dividend of 14 pence per share: been discontinued with the liability for bills of exchange reducing an increase of 16% when compared with the previous year.
to nil during the year from 12.2 million last year.
The dividend is covered 4.6 times by earnings.
In each of the last The Group will continue to defer land payments wherever eight years, our dividend has increased by a minimum of 10% possible to improve its return on capital employed.
During that period the dividend has increased by 131% compared with inflation of 22% providing significant real Creditors policy The policy for payment of creditors is to agree growth in income to shareholders.
payment terms in advance with a supplier or sub-contractor when an order is placed.
These will not necessarily be in Cash flow, liquidity and gearing The Groups policy remains the accordance with the standard payment terms of the supplier reduction of gearing whilst continuing to provide sufficient concerned.
In general, payments are made on a monthly basis investment to achieve its growth targets.
and the Group endeavours to comply with the agreed payment Net debt at year end was 247.9 million compared with 255.4 terms where the amounts are not in dispute.
This level of net borrowings provided a gearing relating to trade creditors outstanding at the year end excluding ratio of 58% at February 2004 compared with 69% in February land vendor creditors were 27 days 2003:28 days.
Our medium term target is to reduce gearing below 50% through delivering profitable growth which requires debt to be in Net assets Net assets increased by 57.3 million to 430.4 million 250 million to 350 million range during the year and for which during the year resulting in net assets per share of 377 pence the Group has more than sufficient facilities.
compared with 328 pence at the beginning of the year.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 27 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 28 FINANCIAL REVIEW Return on average capital employed A key focus for the Group The employee contributions for the Westbury and Prowting is its return on average capital employed.
For this calculation the Schemes are 7% and 5.75% respectively.
Group uses operating profit before exceptional items and All other new employees are offered membership of a personal goodwill amortisation as a percentage of the sum of average pension plan under which they build up an individual fund to monthly shareholders funds and average monthly borrowings for purchase a pension at retirement.
The Company contributes at the year.
The return on average capital employed for the year varying levels to the individuals plan dependent upon their age under review was 19.2% compared with 18.8% in 2003. and their own level of contribution.
Post Balance Sheet Event On 11 March Westbury plc entered The Company has accounted for the pension costs in accordance into a joint venture with Bank of Scotland Corporate Banking with SSAP24, the details of which are set out in note 20 on which was the first of its kind by a major UK housebuilder and page 57. which provides the joint venture with access to 150 million of new capital.
The transitional arrangements of FRS17 Retirement benefits have been adopted in the year ended 29 February 2004 and are The new 50:50 joint venture company, Wescott Holdings Ltd, will disclosed in note 20 on pages 58 and 59 for both final salary operate through two wholly owned subsidiaries.
The deficit under FRS17 for the two final salary schemes Ltd will develop aspirational houses and apartments throughout is 22.9 million at financial year end 2003: 25.4 million.
the UK and Wescott Land Ltd will be a land trading company.
Wescott is funded by a combination of equity provided by Non-audit fees for services provided by Westbury and Bank of Scotland and a syndicated loan facility  In accordance with best practice we from major UK banks.
set out below an analysis of audit and non-audit fees for services provided by our auditors, .
To provide Wescott Homes Ltd with a sound foundation, Westbury sold one of its major urban schemes into the joint Group and Company audit work 180,000 venture.
The transfer at asset value of Leftbank, Westburys Taxation including VAT 117,000 prestigious high rise scheme comprising 391 apartments Other 47,000 currently under construction in the centre of Manchester, ensured that the new company was up and running from the outset.
This The audit committee has an adopted process in place for the disposal generated 30 million for Westbury, net of its investment provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
in the joint venture, which has been used to reduce debt.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Pension arrangements The Group operates two final salary Westbury will adopt IFRS for the year commencing 1 March 2005. schemes defined benefit and a personal pension plan defined The implementation of IFRS is a major change and we have contribution.
established a project team to address the issues involved.
The impact of the change to IFRS on our reported capital and The Prowting final salary scheme is closed to new entrants whilst reserves and on our reported net profit is being assessed.
Our the Westbury Scheme is also closed other than to senior core policies for turnover and profit recognition and the value of managers and directors.
The decision to close both schemes to land and work in progress should be unaffected.
IFRS may impact new entrants was primarily as a result of escalating costs of accounting policies, in particular for retirement benefits, goodwill, running such schemes.
financial instruments and long term shares based incentives.
Both schemes were the subject of a triennial valuation in April We will continue to keep shareholders informed as issues arise.
As a result the Companys contribution for both schemes has increased significantly.
The rate of contribution for the Westbury scheme is now 9.4% 2002: 14% plus 1.8 million per annum to eliminate the scheme deficit over the prospective life of the scheme.
The rate of contribution for the Prowting scheme increased to 17.7% 2003: 10.9% plus 178,000 per annum to eliminate the scheme deficit over the prospective life of the John Bennett scheme.
Finance Director 28 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the directors The directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 29 February 2004.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group has remained that of housebuilding.
Further details of the Groups activities during the year under review and of its prospects are included in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operational, Environmental and Social review and the Financial review.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, amounted to 72,151,000 2003: 56,903,000.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 9.55 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend paid in January 2004, will make a total dividend of 14.0 pence per share for the year ended 29 February 2004.
The total dividend cost is 15,777,000, leaving a retained profit for the year of 56,374,000.
The final dividend will be paid on 5 July 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 June 2004.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 2 June 2004.
Directors The names of the directors are shown on pages 24 and 25.
J H Bennett and C J Cole retire from the Board by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
I C Durant was appointed as a director of the Company on 28 October 2003.
As his appointment was made since the last Annual General Meeting, he retires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
During the year no director has or had an interest in any significant contract or arrangement to which the Company or any subsidiary undertaking is a party.
During the year G P F Inge and R J Davies resigned from the Board on 28 October 2003 and 9 January 2004 respectively.
Directors interests The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 36 and 37.
Share Issue The details of shares issued in the period are given below under the Share Capital heading.
Payment of creditors The policy for payment of creditors is given within the Financial review on page 27.
Environment Information relating to the Groups responsibilities towards the environment is given within the Operational, Environmental and Social review on pages 7 to 22.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of movements in the share capital during the period, are described in note 21 to the financial statements.
During the year 419,315 ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 41,932, were issued for a consideration of 927,000 in respect of the exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Plan.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 29 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Substantial shareholders At 27 April 2004 the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Institution Current holding % Threadneedle Asset Management 12,538,920 10.98 Schroder Investment Management 8,543,186 7.47 Baillie Gifford & Co 7,105,806 6.22 Morley Fund Management 5,831,436 5.10 M&G Investment Management 5,329,495 4.66 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4,882,145 4.22 Henderson Global Investors 3,966,514 3.47 Save as above, the directors are not aware of any person or corporation who has an interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 64.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 28,796 2003: 103,079.
No political donations were made during the year 2003: nil.
Employees The directors recognise the importance of good communications and relations with employees and these are maintained at Head Office and local operational level through team briefing, management meetings, monthly news sheets, internal company statements, departmental meetings and presentations.
It is Group policy to give fair consideration to the employment of disabled people and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 17 June 2004 at 12.00 mid-day at The Queens Hotel, The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 1NN.
Authority to allot shares Resolution 9 The directors authority to allot securities in the capital of the Company expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Resolution 9 is to renew that expiring authority and to give the directors general authority to allot, pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, 35,294,914 ordinary shares representing the Companys unissued ordinary share capital as at 29 February 2004, which is less than one third of the Companys issued share capital.
This authority would, unless previously renewed by shareholders, remain in force up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the Companys executive share option schemes.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 10 The directors authority, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to issue equity securities for cash as if section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 does not apply expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors consider it appropriate for a further authority to be granted and to remain in force up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005.
Accordingly, Resolution 10, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, is to give the directors authority to issue ordinary shares for cash to holders of ordinary shares on a pre-emptive basis subject to special arrangements relating to fractional entitlements or practical problems.
In addition, the directors will be authorised to issue ordinary shares for cash otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal value of 571,025, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 29 February 2004.
By order of the Board C N Chandler Secretary Westbury House Lansdown Road, Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL50 2WH 27 April 2004 30 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 31 REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction In preparing this Remuneration Report to shareholders, the Board has followed the provisions in Schedule B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 1998 the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations this report will be placed before shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 June 2004.
The vote will be advisory in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not, therefore, be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for advising and making recommendations to the Board on all aspects of each executive directors remuneration within agreed terms of reference.
Throughout the year and to date, the Committee comprises G K Maddrell Chairman, D R Wilson, G P F Inge to the date of his resignation and I C Durant from his date of appointment, each of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee but is absent when his own remuneration is under consideration.
In determining levels of remuneration, the Committee were informed by the Boardex research facility in the year and also consulted the Chief Executive and the Groups Personnel Director, Mrs C P Hipkiss.
Policy The Committees policy is to provide a remuneration package which will attract and retain directors with the ability and experience required to manage the Company and to provide superior long term performance.
It is the aim of the Committee to reward directors competitively and on the broad principle that their remuneration should be in line with the remuneration paid to senior management of comparable public companies whilst recognising the particular features of the housebuilding industry.
For guidance, the Committee uses specific job-matched surveys of similar companies and from time to time commissions specific surveys.
This report sets out the Companys policy on executive directors remuneration for 2004 05 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The report also sets out the remuneration policy which has applied in 2003 04.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors.
Basic salary Annual cash bonus Long Term Incentive Plan Benefits Pension It is the policy of the Committee to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration package is delivered through variable pay with payment dependent upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Total remuneration is aligned with Group performance against a range of short and medium term strategic, financial and operational goals.
Basic salary Salaries are reviewed annually on 1 March and are based on market competitive salaries for quoted UK housebuilders.
Salary levels reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the executive and are generally set at around the median level for each job function.
Annual bonus The annual bonus is payable in cash following the completion of the financial year concerned.
These bonuses are performance related and are not pensionable.
The performance conditions are based on targets related to Group earnings per share, regulated for return on average capital employed ROACE and quality targets, and Business Operating Profit growth regulated for targets within those businesses.
There is a cap applied to bonus as a percentage of basic salary.
The performance targets for each executive director for 2003 04 were as follows: Name Performance criteria Bonus limit as % of basic salary Martin Donohue EPS 75 John Bennett EPS 75 Colin Cole EPS Profit of Homes Business 100 Robin Davies EPS Profit of Space4 100 Nigel Fee EPS Profit of Homes Business 100 regulated for ROACE and quality targets regulated for other business targets left on 9 January 2004 For 2004 05 the maximum bonus limited as a percentage of salary will be 100% for all executive directors, the performance criteria for each will be EPS Profit of Homes Business regulated for key business targets Space4 performance, operating margin, ROACE, customer satisfaction and level of land bank.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 31 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 32 REMUNERATION REPORT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee believe that the LTIP closely aligns the interest of shareholders and the Executive Directors as it motivates those directors to achieve demanding performance targets which are in the best interests of shareholders.
During the financial year ended 29 February 2004, all the executive directors received awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders at the 1997 Annual General Meeting.
Under the rules of the scheme, a participant may receive in respect of any year a maximum award of options over shares with a market value when the award was made equivalent to 50% of basic salary.
Each award is made subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria and the options may only be exercised at the end of three years.
There is no cost to the participants in the scheme of exercising the options.
The extent to which the awards may be exercised will be determined by two measures of performance: Total Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS growth, each measured over a three-year performance period.
For awards granted for 1997 to 2000, each of the performance measures related to half of the shares awarded.
For the awards granted in 2001, 2002 and 2003, 70% of the shares were subject to the EPS measure and 30% to the TSR measure.
Under the TSR measure the performance is judged against the following companies: Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley, Bovis, Persimmon, Redrow, Taylor Woodrow, Wilson Bowden and Wimpey.
There will be no vesting of shares under the TSR measure for below median performance, with 10% vesting at median performance and full vesting at upper quartile performance.
The vesting under the EPS measure is determined by the excess of the annual rate of growth of earnings per share above the annual rate of increase in the Retail Prices Index.
If the growth rate excess is less than 2% per annum then no shares vest.
If the growth rate excess is at 2% per annum then 10% of the shares vest and if at 8% or above then 100% of the shares vest.
For both measures vesting on a pro rata basis applies between the lower and upper limits.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting on 16 June 2000 the Long Term Incentive Plan was amended to allow more than 50% of salary to be awarded to directors.
Any awards made in this manner would be termed Achievement of Excellence awards and the performance measures applying to any such awards would be more than usually stretching.
Following the decision by the Remuneration Committee not to implement the Long Term Performance Bonus Plan see below, Awards of Excellence equivalent to 50% of salary were made during the year.
If delivery of the shares is deferred for a further two years then the number available will be increased by one quarter.
The performance targets for the Awards of Excellence are as follows: M C Donohue and J H Bennett each element is equal to a third of the award earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the three financial years ended 28 February 2006 to be equivalent to, or exceed, compound annual growth of RPI plus 12% when compared to earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the year ended 28 February 2003.
Space4 ROACE to be not less than 25% for financial year 2005 06. process improvement measures by end of the 2005 06 financial year covering: reduction in build cycle NHBC build rating customer satisfaction.
N T Fee and C J Cole each element is equal to a quarter of the award earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the three financial years ended 28 February 2006 to be equivalent to, or exceed, compound annual growth of RPI plus 12% when compared to earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the year ended 28 February 2003. achievement of minimum operating profit in aggregate for the Homes Business for the three financial years ended February 2006. for the financial year 2005 06 whichever is the lower of 50% of the aggregate of homes built for the Homes Business, or 2,500 homes built using Space4.
process improvement measures by end of the 2005 06 financial year covering: reduction in build cycle NHBC build rating customer satisfaction.
The Committee believe that the use of these measures closely align the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
For the financial year ending 28 February 2005, the Committee will issue awards under the LTIP at similar levels and with similar measurements to those described above.
32 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 33 REMUNERATION REPORT Long Term Performance Bonus Plan A resolution to introduce a new Long Term Performance Bonus Plan the Plan was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 20 June 2003.
However it was clear from the proxy voting that there were significant shareholder concerns about the Plan.
The Company consulted a number of major shareholders and as a result decided not to implement the Plan.
Employee Share Schemes The Group operates an all-employee Share Incentive Plan and allocations are made to eligible employees in May each year.
Executive directors are eligible to participate on the same terms as other employees.
The Company operates two Executive Share Option Schemes approved by shareholders in 1984 and 1995.
The 1984 Scheme expired on its tenth anniversary in December 1994.
Under the rules of the schemes, options cannot be exercised under three years from the date of grant.
At an Extraordinary General meeting on 16 June 2000 certain changes were made to the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The total value of all shares which a participant is permitted to acquire is limited to no more than one and one-half times remuneration each year.
Adirectormay be granted options in the same year in which the director is granted options under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
This has only occurred on one occasion during the year ending 28 February 2001 when options were granted to N T Fee, C J Cole and R J Davies.
No options were granted to executive directors under the 1995 Scheme in 2003 04.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors who are appointed after 1 March 1994 should have service contracts terminable on one years notice from the Company.
In accordance with this policy, N T Fee and C J Cole have service contracts 9 July 1996 and 1 March 2001 respectively which are terminable on one years notice.
The service contracts of M C Donohue and J H Bennett which are dated 27 March 1986 and 2 November 1992 respectively are terminable by the Company on two years notice.
These contracts pre-date the adoption of the policy referred to above and, when entered into, were considered necessary to secure the requisite calibre of executives within the housebuilding industry.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that, at the current time, it is in the Companys interest to seek to alter the terms of these existing contracts, as the executives concerned are relatively close to the normal retirement dates at which point the contracts will terminate.
The directors service contracts do not make specific provision for compensation payments in the event of early termination.
The Remuneration Committee will consider individual cases when necessary, with the objective of minimising termination payments in the event of poor performance, whilst dealing fairly with individuals and complying with any legal obligations.
Benefits The executive directors remuneration package includes a fully expensed company car or cash allowance, private medical insurance and long term illness insurance.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve the Company under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts.
They are paid a fee which is non-pensionable.
The Board as a whole determines the fees of the non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Performance graph The Company share price performance against the FTSE All Share Index is shown below.
The Board believe this is an appropriate index as it represents a very broad range of quoted UK companies, and the Company is a constituent of that index.
