Chief Executives review of operations I am pleased to present my first review since joining the Group as Chief Executive in October 2003.
We are in good shape, having made demonstrable progress in returning to profitable growth.
Our markets are healthy and our continued focus on cost management and targeted turnover growth is delivering improved margins.
Prospects for the future are good.
The outlook for our core markets is robust, underpinned by the commitment of the UK Government to continued investment in upgrading and maintaining the public infrastructure.
Best value procurement methods represent an increasing opportunity for organisations which can deliver consistently high levels of quality, while increasing barriers to entry for competitors without our impressive record in these areas.
As reported at the half year, the Groups reporting segments have been consolidated into Transport, Design and Engineering Solutions and Management and Project Services, supported by Equity Our markets are Investments.
The trading operating result is reconciled to operating profit in Note 1 to the accounts.
healthy and our Transport 2004 2003 continued focus on Turnover 410.3m 337.3m cost management and Trading operating profit 23.5m 10.1m Margin 5.7% 3.0% targeted turnover Transport is one of the largest providers of design and technical growth is delivering support to the UKs road and rail sector.
Our significant technical capabilities are underpinned by extensive experience and expert project and safety management.
We can, where required, enable improved margins.
critical transport infrastructure to remain in use while upgrading and maintenance is carried out.
We have a strong reputation for quality.
Our transport businesses have both attained international standards for quality and environmental management ISO 9001-2000 and ISO14001, and our Highways and Transportation H&T business achieved the highest sector score in a recent capability assessment by the Highways Agency HA.
We are well placed to respond to the increasingly sophisticated procurement models which are targeting best value for major new contracts under the Governments long term plans to improve the transport infrastructure.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 16 The recently concluded review by the UK Rail Regulator has set the In system integration, we assisted Network Rail in demonstrating industry agenda for the next five years, including a 23bn funding the safety case for two new Computer Based Interlockings CBIs.
plan to upgrade the rail infrastructure.
We expect the medium term These are the next generation of signalling technology and offer our future of the highways market to focus on demand management client enhanced performance and reduced maintenance costs.
We and continued investment in asset maintenance.
prepared the Engineering System Safety Case for the CBIs installed by Network Rail at Stockport and Dorset Coast.
Turnover in Transport was 21.6% higher than last year at 410.3m primarily due to work generated from the Metronet PPP companies Successful starts were made on a number of new long-term projects, and growth of existing contracts.
Trading operating profit increased including the first year of our 10-year Structures Examination by 13.4m to 23.5m as the Group benefited from an increase in Contracts for Network Rail in the South of England and Scotland.
workload from Network Rail and the elimination of loss-making In addition more than 300 Atkins Rail staff were mobilised to begin contracts.
This increase in profits resulted in a trading operating work on upgrading the London Underground.
The segment contributed 43.2% our teams had carried out approximately 8,000 civil structure of the Groups turnover from continuing operations and 50.6% inspections and completed initial designs for the refurbishment of trading operating profit from continuing operations.
of several stations, with work on a further 30 underway.
Rail In Scandinavia, we are the largest privately operated rail We provide a range of rail engineering consultancy services from consultancy.
Here, our operations had another successful year, multifunctional rail design, asset management and bridge inspection winning a commission to develop a new relay interlocking system to vehicle acceptance testing.
Our role as a major design engineer at Flintholm station in Copenhagen and bringing their specialist for signalling, civil engineering and overhead line works enables skills in acoustics and control rooms to the station design work on us to make significant contributions to important rail projects such the London Underground.
as Network Rails ongoing upgrade of the West Coast Main Line WCML, the largest rail investment project in Europe.
Our team Highways and Transportation includes leading industry experts in signalling, systems integration, We are Managing Agent for three of the HAs 15 Areas, and electrification, civil engineering and telecommunications.
They are Managing Agent Contractor for a fourth in the Optima partnership.
engaged on most of the UKs major rail enhancement projects Under these contracts we have responsibilities for network and and on numerous projects overseas.
maintenance management, including planning, design and supervision of network improvements, safety inspections and We completed a number of significant projects during the year, operational management of abnormal loads and network enhancing our reputation for reliable delivery of well-engineered incidents.
As Managing Agent, we co-ordinate routine and winter infrastructure schemes on time and to budget.
maintenance: as Managing Agent Contractor, we also undertake this work.
The extended blockade of the WCML in North Staffordshire was a key element in the upgrade to the UKs busiest mixed traffic railway We also support the development of new roads and road line.
The Strategic Rail Authoritys strategy of closing key stretches of improvement programmes such as the widening of the M25 near the railway for longer periods, rather than the traditional overnight Heathrow Airport and the provision of spur road access to the new and week-end working, has shown real benefits in reducing costs fifth terminal.
During the year, our designers won an award for and co-ordinating alternative transport for passengers.
However civil engineering excellence and innovation for the new Medway it places a very clear requirement on the engineers to plan and Bridge, which forms part of the A2 M2 widening project.
The execute the project to the highest standards of efficiency and quality.
opening of the UKs first toll road, the M6 Toll, marked the end of During the blockade we were responsible for the disconnection, many years of planning during which we co-designed the new reconnection and testing of all the signalling equipment and motorway, helped develop the business case and presented traffic overhead power lines along 56 miles of track.
We also upgraded evidence at the Public Inquiry.
the power signal box at Stoke, automated level crossings and upgraded the digital axle counters, a new technology designed to improve safety.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 17 1 In Scandinavia, we are the largest privately owned rail consultancy.
2 We have made a significant contribution to the upgrade of the West Coast Main Line.
3 Atkins co-designed the UKs first toll road, the M6 Toll.
Chief Executives review of operations continued Consistent delivery of a high quality service continues to form the foundation for strong and enduring relationships with our major clients.
In this respect we had a particularly successful year.
In December 2003, we were assessed by the HA using a new vendorrating system, the Capability Assessment Toolkit CAT.
The CAT system reviews in depth the quality of supplier capabilities to determine who can bid for new HA contracts.
We were proud to achieve the highest CAT score of all consultants in the sector, a tribute to the capability of our people and the quality of our market offering.
Strong relationships with existing clients enabled us to expand and extend the scope of a number of contracts in the year.
These included the extension of our Northamptonshire Highways 1 Partnership to include Northampton Borough Council and the renewal and extension of our Stirling Consultancy Services Term Commission to include Clackmannanshire and Falkirk.
2004 marked the successful completion of the first year of our 5-year partnership renewal for integrated highways and transport services with Somerset County Council.
We continue to work closely with our partners in Optima to deliver best practice network management and maintenance on behalf of the Highways Agency.
The mid-term of the Governments 10-year Transport Plan has seen a marked shift in focus from planning to delivery of transport improvements.
During the year, we continued to work closely with national, regional and local agencies to deliver key elements of their strategic and local transport plans to reduce congestion through improved transport integration, better traffic management and 2 improved travel information.
Our work on developing the software for a new National Journey Planner is nearing completion.
The Planner, covering all modes of transport, will enable people to understand all the travel options available to them before embarking on their journeys.
The strength of our position in intelligent transport systems was reflected in the award of a multi-million pound contract from the Welsh Assembly to develop, implement and operate telecommunications and intelligent transport services on motorways and trunk roads throughout Wales.
In total, we are currently designing and implementing six national, regional and local authority control centres throughout the UK to collect, analyse and disseminate real time data on aspects of traffic flow.
These will all be operational within the next year.
3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 18 Design and Engineering Solutions In Lytham St Annes we won the competition to design a major 2004 2003 integrated leisure and residential development.
In Glasgow we worked in partnership with architects Richard Rogers on a Turnover 264.3m 241.7m competition-winning design for a new pedestrian bridge over the Trading operating profit 13.4m 3.2m Margin 5.1% 1.3% Clyde.
In London our widely acclaimed pedestrianisation and landscaping of Trafalgar Square won a Civic Trust award.
August saw the successful completion of the rebuilding of Hornsea town Design and Engineering Solutions provides clever design and promenade as part of a pilot scheme under the Market Towns engineering.
Our multi-discipline teams draw on the expertise of Initiative for regeneration in Yorkshire.
We prepared the designs architects, planners and engineers, as well as environmental for the new seafront facilities, which won an award from the consultants and specialists in other key related disciplines.
Landscape Institute, and managed delivery of the project.
Conditions in our key markets were good in the year, with ongoing The trend for the public sector to procure services through public sector investment providing a steady stream of work.
framework contracts continued during the year.
We benefited from Looking ahead, public sector initiatives such as the 8bn education such agreements with key clients such as the Environment Agency programme announced by the Chancellor in the recent budget where work included design of new flood defences in the Severn are expected to present ongoing opportunities in areas of proven Valley and the Department for Work and Pensions where we strength.
Regeneration and environmental improvement schemes designed and project managed the re-branding of over 120 are also likely to present opportunities for us in the coming year.
JobCentre offices throughout the UK.
Turnover in Design and Engineering Solutions was 9.4% higher Internationally our operations in the Middle East continued to than last year at 264.3m reflecting better market penetration and benefit from high levels of investment in the region.
In Bahrain we work on the Colchester Garrison design contract.
Continued were appointed masterplanners and engineers for the $1bn Durrat progress on reducing costs, combined with concentration on core Island resort development.
2004 saw completion of the worlds activities, helped lift trading operating profit to 13.4m 2003: 3.2m tallest residential tower in Dubai, which we designed, and we are and trading operating margin to 5.1% 2003: 1.3%.
The segment currently working on a number of other similar towers in the contributed 27.8% of the Groups turnover from continuing region.
In Libya we have completed the concept design for a new operations and 28.9% of the Groups trading operating profit from tourist resort at Sidi Benure.
The strongly performing Chinese continuing operations.
During the year, our review of the Shanghai masterplan led to several follow up Design, Environment & Engineering commissions including masterplanning for a new town in Jiading Our 3,100 architects, planners and engineers design buildings, and the urban regeneration planning of the South Station area provide town planning and urban design services and act as with links to the Shanghai 2010 Expo site.
consulting engineers for a wide range of infrastructure projects.
UK construction continued to be driven by public sector investment during 2004, enabling us to consolidate our position in education and health.
We have designed over 50 new schools in the last three years and prepared refurbishment plans for over 1,000.
In health we work for all of the 15 NHS Boards in Scotland.
Important new contracts during the year demonstrated the scale and scope of our activities.
Alongside specialists from Atkins Rail, we began work on designs for the refurbishment of stations on the London Underground under the Metronet Public Private Partnership.
The Private Finance Initiative project to re-develop the army facilities at Colchester Garrison reached financial close in February 2004.
Our design team had been working on the project pre-closure, but has since been fully mobilised to support this project.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 19 1 We are working on six traffic control centres throughout the UK.
2 The Welsh Assembly has appointed Atkins to develop intelligent transport systems.
3 We worked on the award-winning design for a new pedestrian footbridge in Glasgow.
Chief Executives review of operations continued Industry Atkins Industry is one of the largest engineering consultants in the UK utility, defence and oil & gas markets.
Our services include engineering, planning, design, analysis and project management.
We re-focused our operations during 2004 to concentrate on defined segments within each of our target markets, and we have a strong presence in each of these.
Regulatory requirements and UK Government targets drove increased investment in utility infrastructure.
We continued to undertake work for the majority of the water and wastewater companies in the UK as well as for the Environment Agency with whom we have a significant framework contract.
Work on our water technology products also bore fruit with the receipt of the 1 IWEX innovation award for the SONIX technology, which we developed to enhance traditional wastewater treatment process.
In the power sector, demand was healthy for design and project management services in transmission and distribution.
Support of nuclear generation assets provided a healthy workload.
Renewable energy is a specific growth area and we are working with both established and emerging technologies.
Demand for our project services in Telecoms also strengthened over the year.
In the defence sector, opportunities exist in high-end technical equipment and systems development.
We are involved in significant projects supporting Rolls-Royce in designing the lift fan and F136 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter, and Airbus in designing the wing for the A400M, the Hercules replacement.
While the civil aerospace market is generally challenging there is significant demand for our 2 services from Airbus and Rolls-Royce on the A380 super-jumbo and Trent 1000 engine respectively.
Improved extraction techniques are extending the life of oil fields, while the need to find new sources of hydrocarbons is driving exploration and development into deeper waters offshore.
Both these factors are creating a growing demand for the safety, process and structural services that we provide to the sector.
We focus on performance efficiency, reducing costs and extending the life of key assets.
Recognising the increasingly global nature of the sector, in 2004 we expanded our presence in Houston and opened a new office in Paris, strengthening key relationships with clients such as BP, Total and Exxon Mobil.
3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 20 Management and Project Services In the retail sector, we act for Selfridges in their UK capital works 2004 2003 programme.
During the year, we provided lease negotiation, project management, contract administration and planning supervision Turnover 209.0m 188.1m services for the base build and fit out of their iconic Birmingham Trading operating profit 3.6m 2.1m Margin 1.7% 1.1% store, as well as supporting development work at Manchester and Oxford Street.
Management and Project Services supports the development and Our US operation continued to build on key relationships with Intel, ongoing operation of our clients assets, providing a variety of services BP, American Airlines and DHL.
We provided cost management on including cost planning, IT implementation and facilities management Amgens bio plant development on Rhode Island, and to the Lower FM.
We are well placed to support forthcoming public sector Manhattan Development Corporations redevelopment of the initiatives in urban regeneration and IT infrastructure development.
In the Far East we are supporting investment In FM the range of services covered by outsourcing arrangements is into Singapore and China by pharmaceutical and petrochemical expanding, encompassing service delivery and increasingly providing companies including Merck, Schering Plough, Novartis, BASF routes to market for professional and project services.
Turnover in Management and Project Services was 11.1% higher Asset Management than last year at 209.0m, mainly as a result of the inclusion of a full We provide a range of FM services, including strategy development, years turnover from Hanscomb acquired in June 2002.
The sector service delivery, helpdesk provision, operational asset management contributed 22.0% of the Groups turnover from continuing and maintenance and procurement support.
Our ability to draw on operations in the year.
Trading operating profit from continuing the expertise of other parts of Atkins is key to our market offering.
operations was 3.6m compared to 2.1m in 2003, after provisions in respect of under-performing FM contracts.
Trading operating Following last years review of operations we have focused on margins increased to 1.7% 2003: 1.1%.
margins and cash generation during 2004.
We also secured a 35-year contract to provide estate management and maintenance Faithful & Gould services to the redeveloped Colchester Garrison, and new contracts Faithful & Gould F&G provides cost and project management with Bexley Council and the newly restructured Littlewoods Group.
services, playing an integral part in many of the Groups complex projects as well as supporting external clients in the UK, USA and Management Consultants Far East.
We support complex programmes of business change.
We are a significant supplier of management consultancy services to central We continued to support the Governments investment agenda, Government, with particular strengths in project and programme providing project management and planning supervision services management.
to HM Prisons and cost management services to Derbyshire County Council under framework contracts.
We provided PFI technical 2004 saw a near doubling in the market for public sector work.
advice on nine separate Local Authority school developments, and Programme and project governance is emerging as an important project and cost managed a number of regeneration initiatives for area of growth and we worked closely with the Office for National the Sunderland Area Regeneration project and in the Lea Valley for Statistics, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Department the London Development Agency.
for International Development to help them achieve aspects of the Office of Government Commerces initiative to improve process for In the transport sector, we worked on the transfer of maintenance managing major projects.
works contracts back to Network Rail.
We also secured appointments to provide cost planning on the major Kings Cross We also grew our IT Managed Services practice, negotiating longer redevelopment and cost estimating on the multi-modal transport and broader contracts with, amongst others, Swindon Borough infrastructure for the Olympic bid masterplan.
Council where we have successfully delivered technology refresh and implementation projects, amongst other services.
We divested ourselves of some low margin local Government business process work, improving our focus on high value consultancy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 21 1 Our designs for the pedestrianisation of Trafalgar Square won a Civic Trust award.
2 We designed new seafront facilities for Hornsea, Yorkshire.
3 We are supporting Rolls-Royce in designing key elements of the new Joint Strike Fighter.
Chief Executives review of operations continued Equity Investments 2004 2003 Turnover 66.8m 66.6m Trading operating profit 5.9m 4.7m Margin 8.8% 7.1% Joint Venture turnover 152.8m 17.1m Joint Venture profit before tax 12.8m 0.8m Equity Investments represents the Groups interest in Joint Ventures, PFI and PPP initiatives and Lambert Smith Hampton LSH, a wholly owned subsidiary company run as a stand alone brand in the commercial property market.
1 Turnover in Equity Investments, which primarily relates to LSH, was in line with last year at 66.8m and accounted for 7.0% of the Groups turnover from continuing operations.
Trading operating profit from continuing operations increased to 5.9m 2003: 4.7m due to the inclusion of fees and other income generated from the Metronet PPP companies.
The Groups share of the profit before tax of its Joint Ventures rose substantially from 6.7m last year to 20.6m this year, primarily due to the inclusion of the first years trading in Metronet.
The results for the year included profit before tax of 6.1m from Joint Ventures that were sold in the year.
Metronet In April 2003 the Metronet consortium, in which we have a 20% 2 share, achieved financial close on two contracts with London Underground.
These represent the Groups most significant PPP project to date.
Metronet runs the London Underground infrastructure companies Metronet Rail BCV Limited, incorporating the Bakerloo, Central, Victoria and Waterloo & City lines, and Metronet Rail SSL Limited, incorporating the Metropolitan, District, Circle, Hammersmith & City and East London lines.
Together these account for over two thirds of the London Underground network.
Metronet is now beginning a programme of repair and refurbishment that will in time deliver substantial improvements to the infrastructure and enable London Underground to operate a more frequent and reliable service.
London Underground will remain responsible for the management of the network, including drivers, signalling and station staff and 3 the Safety Case.
It will also be responsible for ticketing and fares.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 22 Trans4m Ltd, a Joint Venture company in which Atkins has a 25% Lambert Smith Hampton stake, has contracted with the Metronet PPP companies to undertake Lambert Smith Hampton LSH provides a broad range of property the civil engineering work and the refurbishment and modernisation consultancy and transactional services.
Its activities include commercial 1 of the stations.
Trans4m Ltd has signed a 7 2 year contract with agency and investment advice, valuation services, landlord and Atkins for premises and civils design, inspection and assessment tenant advice, property management, building surveying and work and the design and build of new communications systems.
With staff based at 29 offices across the UK and the The year to 31 March 2004 was the first full year of operation, with Republic of Ireland, it offers the benefits of both in-depth local the main focus on establishing the organisational structures and knowledge and consistently high service standards nationwide.
resources for the Joint Ventures and their supply chains, introducing new systems for financial and asset management and ensuring that Weakness in the London office market throughout the year was safety standards were maintained and enhanced.
offset by relatively better conditions in the regions.
The key city offices of Manchester, Birmingham and Bristol all had successful Intensive maintenance activity including targeted removal of graffiti years, and in St Albans we entered a new contract to provide and litter and deep-cleaning of stations and rolling stock have estates and valuation services for Hertfordshire County Council.
resulted in noticeable improvements for passengers in the first year Estates Gazette named LSH Most Active Agent in the UK for the of the PPP.
Operational performance was significantly impacted by third year in succession.
the Chancery Lane accident which occurred in January 2003 prior to the transfer of responsibilities to the Metronet PPP companies.
The retail market remained robust, supported by consumer The inquiry into the accident recommended a number of actions spending growth.
The industrial sector continued to under-perform which delayed planned maintenance activity.
In spite of this, service in the light of weak occupier demand and the difficulties faced by reliability targets were being achieved by the end of the year.
the manufacturing sector, although the distribution sector remained active.
The investment market continued to be dominated by There have been delays to the capital works programmes for station overseas and private investors with intense competition and the and rolling stock refurbishment.
This is not surprising in the context sheer weight of money resulting in hardening yields.
of the scale and complexity of the investment programme.
Measures are in hand to compensate for the delays with the objective of The year saw strong growth in consultancy services, particularly mitigating any potential impact on delivery timetables.
We are professional and rating advice.
Growth in the market for outsourced committing substantial senior management resource to ensuring property advisory services provided opportunities, and new delivery of the Metronet supply chain contracts and overseeing contracts were secured with Kwik-Fit, Land Securities Trillium and our investment.
Equity Management Improving economic conditions are expected to revive the office and Equity Management provides financial and technical support to the industrial sectors, although rising interest rates may curtail growth Groups participation in PFI PPP initiatives.
in the retail sector as consumer spending slows.
Investor appetites appear to be undiminished, but activity levels may fall due to scarcity In May 2003, as part of the Connect Roads Joint Venture, we of product.
The trend for companies to outsource non-core property achieved financial close on the M77 Design Build Finance Operate services and award contracts on a national basis is expected to DBFO PFI Road project.
In February 2004, as part of the Holdfast grow, meaning that agents with an extensive geographic reach consortium we achieved financial close on the Colchester Garrison will be well positioned to meet customer requirements.
Outlook The maturing PFI PPP market has led us to refine our PFI model.
I am confident that the Group is well positioned.
The outlook for our Third party equity is increasingly available at an earlier stage in the markets is robust.
We will continue to focus on our core competencies, concession, allowing Atkins to focus on design, bidding and with margin improvement and cash generation remaining key.
procurement rather than long term equity investment.
During the year, we disposed of our interest in all but one of our Schools PFI projects and all of our Connect Roads projects for a total consideration of 17.2 million.
We also disposed of our interest in Atkins Rebserve Proprietary Ltd, the company established to undertake the Telkom South Africa facilities management contract.
Keith Clarke Chief Executive 19 July 2004 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 23
