Operational Review Our strength is our ability to manage the Group to perform strongly, minimising risk whatever the state of the housing market or the economic conditions that prevail.
developing excellence with marketing flair.
The Introduction It is now 28 years since I founded The Berkeley skills required are hugely varied hence the intensive nature of our management approach.
At that time, my vision which has remained constant over these three decades We have a highly trained management team in was to create a property company which was not only highly successful but which also place to continue delivering our strategy for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
This team has a pioneered new ways of working in partnership with all the stakeholders involved in the process natural size and combines extensive experience alongside a carefully selected group of younger of land development.
I believed then and still do that there was a path that could create people.
Together this management team offers succession in abundance and this preparation for true harmony between the requirements of our shareholders, employees, customers, the future is something for which we continue to plan and nurture our talent.
government, regional bodies and local authorities.
This is the journey that has taken At the heart of Berkeleys success is a uniquely Berkeley to its position today as Britains premier urban regenerator.
talented and experienced management team, driven by entrepreneurial flair and an unrivalled Reaching this point has only been possible practical understanding of the land and property market.
Berkeley has always recognised that part by a strategy of genuine partnership and the alignment of interests of our stakeholders.
of its strength has been built on the committed, hard working and imaginative people it employs.
Our shareholders have always looked for value creation over the long term and the security of But the success of our business model also rests on the manner in which we create our knowing that their business is being managed by safe hands.
I believe that our strategy has teams, generating results far in excess of the simple sum of individuals.
Such a performance achieved these objectives and will continue to do so going forward.
is not achieved without the commitment, dedication and expertise of our staff.
On behalf Berkeley has always had a well-founded, clear of the Board and shareholders, I would like, in addition to the Chairman, to express our sincere and consistent strategy and the vision and expertise to deliver it.
At the heart of the appreciation and thanks to them all.
Our people are our life blood.
company is a recognition that adding value to land through development requires a hands-on Meeting the needs of our customers has been approach.
Our ability to closely manage the development process has been critical to the key to the success of Berkeley and will continue to be our central focus.
Every customer has their success of Berkeleys strategy.
own requirements and each looks for a different experience whether an investment opportunity, Berkeleys objective has always been to own and develop an unrivalled land bank and have a house to live in on their own or with their family, a weekend retreat or a pied--terre in the centre the expertise to build and sell the homes created.
In our view, to maximise shareholder value our of one of our great cities.
To meet these many 1 and varied expectations, Berkeley must produce business has to combine planning and 1 St George Wharf, SW8 7 7 www.
co. uk Operational Review homes in locations which appeal to our These achievements include: being prepared to pioneer and through the ability customers and create the communities of its management to undertake the most of tomorrow.
Turnover and profits at a record level.
complex and challenging urban regeneration schemes, creating mixed-use schemes and As an issue of public policy, housing is growing The conversion of net debt of 143 million at places for people to live.
in importance whether as a result of the 30 April 2003 into positive net cash balances Barker Review into the supply of housing, the of 145.2 million as at 30 April 2004.
The Housing Market work of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Since 2001, the housing market has gone the Greater London Authority or other national, A strong sales performance with the forward through a number of mini cycles, as can be regional and local statutory agencies or sales position at 30 April 2004 being even seen in terms of reservation levels.
The first half representative bodies.
Berkeley is well placed healthier than the previous year.
of 2001 2 May 2001 to October 2001 was a to capitalise on this public policy focus.
normal market, while the second half November Only through active partnership between all The creation of a new approach and structure 2001 to April 2002 was unexpectedly buoyant, stakeholders of the sort Berkeley has always for Crosby that generates significant cash for returning to more normal conditions in the first pioneered will we be able to deliver the urban the Group and motivates management.
This gave way to weak market regeneration projects required in order conditions in the second half of 2002 3, as a to meet housing needs in a sustainable manner.
The exit from the Gunwharf Commercial result of uncertainty caused by world events.
One example of this partnership approach is the Partnership, and once again generating The market then returned to more normal Royal Arsenal at Woolwich where Berkeley is significant funds for the Group.
conditions through the financial year 2003 4. working with the London Borough of Greenwich, In addition, reservations to investors in 2003 4 the London Development Agency and English The further strengthening of our strong have exceeded 50% a reassuring Heritage on a large-scale development project land position.
demonstration of the continuing strength of which will make a major contribution to the the investment market.
Business is not about chance and these achievements have been the result of a well The market, particularly in London and the SouthTrue partnerships have at their heart an founded and consistent strategy and have East, continues to provide a stable environment alignment of interests and the bringing together been delivered through the dynamics of our in which to operate.
Increases in sales prices of Thames Water and The Berkeley Group people who add value at every stage of the depend heavily on location, type of development through St James to bring redundant land back development process, be it land optimisation and stage of construction and are running at into use to create sustainable communities is a or product enhancement.
3.0% to 8.0% above our business plan forecast, great example of this.
These partnerships meet at levels similar to the first half.
Build costs remain the ambition of local and central government to Much is currently being written about the under pressure and this has intensified in the meet housing needs in a sustainable manner prospects of the housing market, the challenges last six months with the continuing shortage of while providing attractive places to live for people of land supply and the planning system and the labour coupled with the improvement in world across all income ranges who are looking for future of the economy.
Our strength is our ability economies.
Indirect costs, including landfill tax homes to live in.
to manage the Group to perform strongly, and insurances, have also increased in the year.
minimising risk whatever the state of the When coupled with the planning uncertainties, Review of the Year housing market or the economic conditions that an increase in the affordable housing requirement The year under review has been very prevail.
We believe that the current strategy of and Section 106 planning gain payments, it is significant for Berkeley as we have very Berkeley to focus primarily on being an urban clear that sales price inflation may no longer largely completed our transformation from regenerator will enable us to continue to deliver a cover increased costs, thus putting pressure on a traditional housebuilder into a mixed-use strong performance for our shareholders and all land values and operating margins.
high employment levels, especially in London and the South-East combined with interest rates This has gone hand in hand with a number of Berkeley is now one of the leaders in the that are still historically low despite recent other notable achievements that have all been transformation of regeneration in urban Britain increases continue to underpin consumer part of our strategy to refocus Berkeley as a and our views and expertise are widely sought confidence.
At the same time, constraints in more simple business but one capable of by policy makers all over the country.
Berkeley supply are likely to continue as a result of carrying out the most demanding and complex has achieved this respect by its willingness to planning delays and the complexity of regeneration schemes.
work in partnership with key stakeholders, by delivering urban regeneration schemes.
co. uk 1 Wycombe Square, Kensington, W8 2 The Vulcan, Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Prior to refurbishment 1 The normal housing market that now exists in the UK plays to Berkeleys key product 2 strengths: location, quality and choice.
co. uk Operational Review 1 The Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, SE18 2 Lyme Wharf, Camden, NW1 Our sales results this year were excellent and I am especially pleased at the improvement from a great start in our forward sales position.
This is the strength of a strategy that secures an early commitment from the customer enhancing the quality of future income and security in the profit and loss account.
co. uk Berkeley has been very selective in the land generating more than 350 million from operating market and has found prices to be extremely cash flow and working capital.
Berkeley now competitive, especially for sites below 10 million, controls 26,654 plots.
This compares with or for ready to go sites with planning permission.
The land market remains highly competitive and Berkeley In the Groups full year targets for 2004 5, 57% maintains strict investment criteria that have of sales are of units with selling prices under led the Group to withdraw from a number 300,000 and 87% of sales are of units under of opportunities.
Given that this end of the market has been performing most strongly, we should Notwithstanding this, the Group has acquired achieve these forecasts as long as we produce a number of significant urban regeneration sites homes in locations where people want to live.
The most notable of these is the development agreement entered into with the The housing market is now what I would regard London Development Agency for 2,000 homes as normal but thats the type of market we at The Warren, a site adjacent to the Groups like at Berkeley.
It plays to our key product existing development at Royal Arsenal, strengths: location, quality and choice.
In addition to this, the Group has enables our innovative marketing teams to make acquired a site of 800 units in Gillingham, a full use of our distinctive brands to communicate 550 unit site at Stanmore, a 290 unit site on those strengths.
a cold storage facility in Sevenoaks, and agreed a 600 unit site at Hillingdon.
Furthermore, during Forward Sales the year, the Group has continued to review its Our sales results this year were excellent and existing holdings, maximising densities where this I am especially pleased at the improvement is compatible with local planning objectives and from a great start in our forward sales position.
This has been achieved at Redbank in This is the strength of a strategy that secures Manchester where the development has been an early commitment from the customer enhanced by a further 350 units, Clarence Dock enhancing the quality of future income and in Leeds a further 270 units, St George Wharf security in the profit and loss account.
a further 140 units and the residential phase at Gunwharf Quays a further 200 units.
Berkeleys strategy continues to be to sell homes at an early stage in the development cycle as At 30 April 2004, of the plots controlled by the this secures purchasers commitments and, Group, 21,449 2003: 19,459 are owned and consequently, the quality of future revenue.
This on the balance sheet, while 4,315 2003: 3,358 strategy has always stood the Group in good are contracted and a further 890 2003: 3,033 stead but is particularly important when there is have terms agreed and solicitors instructed.
less vigour in the market.
It is positive, therefore, Over 95% of our land holdings are on brownfield that the Group has increased its forward sales or recycled land.
This is the backbone of position from 920.9 million at this time last year, our business.
Of this, 156.4 million 2003: 229.0 million is included Joint Ventures as debtors in the balance sheet, with the Berkeley currently has 67.9 million of capital remaining 788.9 million 2003: 691.9 million employed in joint ventures, an increase of benefiting the current year and future years.
11.2 million from last years figure of 56.7 million.
Our share of joint venture Land Holdings bank borrowings has risen by 7.8 million Berkeley has always been known for the scale to 78.7 million.
and quality of its land holdings.
This year weve taken that to a new level.
During the year the Berkeleys largest joint venture company is Group has more than replaced the number of St James, which is jointly owned with Thames plots used in production while at the same time Water.
St James is currently developing 2,416 Berkeley has always been known for the scale and quality of its land holdings.
co. uk Operational Review 1 Our patient approach to development brings value to redundant land and generates real return for our shareholders as well as immense benefits to local communities.
2 1 New River Village, Hornsey, N8 2 Chelsea Bridge Wharf, SW8 12 www.
co. uk Few other companies have such a breadth and depth of management experience, gained at the cutting edge of the home building industry.
homes within the business, with a similar number This is a fantastic achievement for Berkeley and which to operate.
We continually work to reduce being worked up with Thames Water on potential is a perfect example of how our patient approach the number of incidents that occur to the future sites.
to development brings value to redundant minimum possible.
Last year we committed land and generates real return for our ourselves to achieving a 10% reduction in our Berkeley is committed to developing our shareholders as well as immense benefits notifiable incident rate which stood at 10.2 per partners land holdings through joint ventures to local communities.
I am delighted to be able to if there is a mutual benefit so to do.
report that we have exceeded that target with Its also a demonstration of how Berkeley a reduction in notifiable incidents to 7.26 per Crosby Group can meet challenges that some others shy 1,000 workers.
This is a great tribute to our On 28 August 2003, we announced the away from.
health and safety team and our entire workforce.
transaction whereby the Crosby management team, led by its Chairman Geoff Hutchinson, Management Structure Awards subscribed for shares in Crosby which, after the Berkeleys confidence flows in part from the This year, The Berkeley Group has once generation of 450 million of operating cash flow, experience weve built up in our management again won a number of notable awards for its will entitle them to 50.01% of the economic and teams over the last decade.
I am delighted by this external voting rights in Crosby.
companies have such a breadth and depth of recognition of the commitment and hard work management experience, gained at the cutting of our staff and the excellence of our business.
I am delighted that at 30 April 2004, Crosby edge of the home building industry.
But we are A highlight of the year was Berkeley Homes was ahead of its business plan and generated constantly looking at new ways to apply that great success in winning English Partnerships 74 million of operating cash flow in the year.
experience in more potent ways for the benefit coveted Partnership in Regeneration Award for I am particularly pleased that, despite taking over of our shareholders and customers.
its exemplary partnership with Portsmouth City 1,000 units to sales in the year, Crosbys land Council in regenerating Gunwharf Quays.
bank has increased to 5,124 plots at 30 April Last year we accelerated the simplification of our The scheme was chosen out of 180 entries and 2004, compared to 4,815 a year previously.
management structure as we continue to move also picked up a prestigious BURA British Urban Given the reduced level of land buying within away from developing small sites to large and Regeneration Association Best Practice Award Crosby, this largely reflects the value optimised much more complex urban regeneration as an example of outstanding regeneration.
from the land bank and is just one example of projects.
These much more complex projects Berkeley Homes was also awarded the how this innovative transaction has motivated require dedicated management teams focused Commission for Architecture and the Built the senior management team to achieve an on individual sites.
It also means we can grow Environment Five Festive Fives Award in enhanced performance.
Indeed, in the last recognition of its role in championing great year our overhead cost was down by over 5%.
Gunwharf Quays I am very proud of Berkeleys contribution to the At the year end, the Group had ten divisions, and Berkeley Group divisions also gained awards historic city of Portsmouth.
Our Gunwharf Quays 26 operating companies, six of which are single from the Evening Standard, What House and development has been an engine of regeneration project-led operations.
Last year, the Group the British Safety Council as well as Health and for the city and I hope this will spread in the recorded sales from in excess of 130 sites.
Safety Awards from the Royal Society for the future to new schemes, such as Royal Clarence This year that will reduce to around 100.
Health, Safety and the Environment Barker Review During this year our partner in the commercial The Berkeley Group remains committed to its This year saw the publication of the Barker property development at Gunwharf Quays, Land objective of continuous improvement of health, Review into the under supply of housing.
Securities, took full control of this element for safety and environmental standards to ensure The Berkeley Group welcomed its recognition of which we have been paid 163 million to date.
that our sites and workplaces are safe places in the significant constraints placed upon housing 13 www.
co. uk Operational Review I am delighted that Berkeley has become Britains premier urban regenerator.
As a result, Berkeley is now in a unique position with a model that is cash generative and which adds value through the development process.
supply by a combination of the shortage of land is now, normal.
This is another reason why we available for development and the planning are so keen to preserve our unique approach.
We believe that there is a need for And our positioning is also well aligned with regeneration to be more actively championed the public policy debate on housing.
The among decision makers at local level to ensure Government has recognised the need for a that there is a clear understanding of the benefits significant expansion in the construction of new to local communities and to balance the negative homes and that this will require action to remove voices which are traditionally the loudest in the the blockages in the planning system.
Over the coming year Berkeley is committed to playing its full part in the public The Barker Review was an important recognition debate over planning and to continuing to of current constraints on the housebuilding improve the means by which we consult and industry but this agenda is going to develop communicate with local people.
over the coming years and the focus is on regenerating exactly the sort of brownfield The Future sites that Berkeley has such an expertise So, thats the last year, and the story of how in transforming.
our strategy has taken us here.
But what about the future?
I am delighted that the Board has set out a clear strategy for the future and has the expertise to Berkeley is a very special company, with a execute it.
The alignment of the aims of our business model different to other major shareholders, our people and our customers is housebuilders.
We concentrate on large-scale of paramount importance and Berkeley is well urban regeneration, extracting value from placed to continue producing an enhanced redundant land.
That process is complex and performance whilst minimising risk.
requires huge vision, determination and patience.
That needs a certain kind of professional I look forward to the year ahead and moving management, with a large dose of Berkeley towards being the most efficient entrepreneurial skill property company performing at its natural size.
And we have been very successful at transforming Berkeley into a company that specialises in this most contemporary form of development.
Our results speak for themselves and everyone with a stake in the Company gains as a result.
Tony Pidgley Managing Director We also feel our business model is one that performs whether the market is in boom or, as it 1 14 www.
co. uk 1 The Granary & Bakery, Royal Clarence Yard, Gosport Prior to refurbishment 2 No.
1 Deansgate, Manchester 3 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth 2 3 15 www.
