Aviva plc 2004 Long-term savings We have focused on improving cost-efficiency over the past two years, an important factor in sustaining our profitability.
This, along with our operating model, customer service improvements and geographical spread, has put us in a strong position to benefit from further market upturns.
Avivas leading market positions in the UK and continental Europe mean we are well-placed for further growth.
Our operations in the developing markets of Eastern Europe and Asia provide us with excellent opportunities for the long term.
Business strategy Distribution Our long-term savings business is the groups major engine for growth, We believe that a strong multi-distribution capability is a fundamental accounting for 73% of total net premiums written.
Our strategy is to part of offering choice and excellent service to our customers.
achieve profitable growth by providing customers with a wide choice Independent advisers continue to be our largest source of new business, of high-quality products through a mix of distribution channels.
providing around 47% of worldwide sales.
Bancassurance is important, We operate in a combination of mature and developing markets, which generating 23% of the groups business, and is the dominant sales offer excellent opportunities for both short-term and long-term growth.
channel in a number of our markets.
Direct sales represent 26% of the We have leading businesses in the UK and continental Europe, and total and partnerships with non-banking organisations provide the more recent businesses in India, China and Eastern Europe where we remaining 4% of sales.
see opportunities for substantial long-term growth.
Our diverse and Our strategy is to align our distribution model to each market and our cost-efficient business model puts us in a strong position to benefit distribution mix continues to evolve as we develop our businesses.
from further market upturns, particularly with the need for increased retirement savings in many countries.
We share product knowledge and Multi-distribution capability distribution expertise across the group to benefit all our businesses.
In more developed markets, such as the UK, the Netherlands and France, we have built the capacity to meet customer demand for a Market position wider choice of products sold in a variety of ways, including through Aviva is one of the leading providers of life and pensions in Europe, independent advisers.
the UKs largest long-term savings company, and has a leading In the UK, independent financial advisers IFAs continue to be our bancassurance business in the Spanish life market.
Norwich Union main channel, producing around 75% of sales.
In the run-up to consolidated its position as the UK leader, and continues to focus on depolarisation, we have announced multi-tie agreements with leading retaining its position while growing both value and market share.
It has IFA networks Bankhall, Sesame and Milleld, the Portman Building over six million customers.
We have grown our Spanish business Society, Barclays and Fidelity.
considerably in the past few years and we have a life market share of around 10%.
Our distribution platform is supported by our joint venture bancassurance agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, a Hibernian consolidated its position as Irelands number three life and strategic partnership with Tesco, and sales through 19 building societies.
pensions company, with a market share of 11%.
We are also among the top five in the Netherlands, Poland, Turkey, Lithuania and Singapore, We are also building our new product development capability.
Norwich among the top 10 in France, Italy, Belgium, Romania, Australia and Union is developing a market-leading wrap proposition through India, and have significant operations in the United States and Germany.
Lifetime, now a Norwich Union subsidiary company following an Our long-term savings operations in India and China are developing increased equity investment in October 2004.
This provides an IT service well, with large potential for growth over the longer term.
platform that allows financial advisers to manage and transact a range of different client investments online.
Through Lifetime we aim to secure new distribution relationships, open new revenue channels through fees charged, and further strengthen relationships with our distribution partners.
Including share of associates premiums.
