The European buyout market enjoyed a Operational review record year in terms of amounts invested during 2004, rising 15% on the prior year to 76.6 billion.
The mid-market sector, deals between 150 million and 1.5 billion, where Candover focuses, continued to be the backbone of the industry, enjoying consistent growth in both the UK and on the Continent.
We continued to see strong deal flow across our network, and in line ALcontrol with the buoyant market and the favourable investment environment, In December, Candover led the acquisition of ALcontrol, a leading Candover led several significant transactions.
In total, Candover European laboratory-based environmental and food testing invested 60.6 million in five new transactions and six follow-on company, headquartered in the Netherlands.
The companys investments during the year: 55.1 million of this 60.6 million was key competitive advantage is a production driven approach, invested alongside the 2001 Fund, which invested 431.3 million in employing sophisticated IT systems which enable it to offer high these new transactions.
quality testing at a very low cost.
ALcontrol operates in a market which will continue to benefit from strong growth as regulators New investments impose increasingly tight standards of health in areas such as Vetco International food and the environment.
Candover invested 12.9 million and In July, Candover co-led the private equity syndicate that the 2001 Fund invested 100.0 million.
completed the US$925.0 million acquisition of part of the oil and gas business of ABB, now renamed Vetco International.
Vetco is Thule a major participant in the global oilfield services sector, servicing Also in December, Candover completed the SEK4,215.0 million all the major oil producers around the world.
Candover invested buyout of Thule, the worlds leading sports utility transportation 7.5 million and the 2001 Fund invested 58.6 million.
Headquartered in Sweden, Thule manufactures and has significant market positions, strong, long-established brands, distributes car racks and boxes, trailers, roof rails and snow chains.
and a reputation for innovative and robust technology.
These factors, It owns a group of strong brands and is the global number one in combined with the growing market forecasts for the capital spending its core activity of car racks and boxes.
It also holds either global of oil exploration and production companies driven by global or European market leading positions in all its other product areas.
demand for oil and gas, made this an attractive investment Candover invested 14.6 million and the 2001 Fund invested opportunity for Candover.
Innovia Films Other investments In September, Candover led the 320.0 million buyout of UCB Six follow-on investments totalling 5.5 million were made.
Three Films, now renamed Innovia Films.
The company is a manufacturer were further participations in a mid-market French buyout fund of specialist polypropylene and cellulose films for speciality and two mezzanine funds, and three were further commitments to packaging and labelling, as well as being the only manufacturer of investee companies.
The most significant of these was an investment polymer banknotes in the world via a joint venture with the Reserve of 1.4 million by Candover and 10.7 million by the 2001 Fund in Bank of Australia.
Candover invested 9.9 million and the 2001 Swissport, a global ground handling business, to enable it to acquire Fund invested 77.9 million.
Groundstar, a leading UK ground handler.
Bureau van Dijk In November, Candover led the buyout of Belgium-based Bureau van Dijk, a publisher of specialised financial and company information products via the internet and CD DVDs.
The products contain information on over ten million companies worldwide, with a strong emphasis on private companies.
The acquisition presented Candover with the opportunity to invest in the next phase of development of a profitable, growing business that had a unique and defensible competitive position.
Candover invested 10.2 million and the 2001 Fund invested 80.3 million.
Candover Report and accounts 2004 07 Operational review continued During the year, two 2001 Fund investee companies, Kabel Realisations Deutschland and Springer were refinanced, and a further investee Net realised gains over cost achieved by Candover and its managed company, Gala, has been refinanced since the year end.
As a result, funds amounted to 396.7 million, of which Candovers share was Kabel Deutschland has now returned all of its cost and a gain of 75.5 million.
During the year, Candover had six full realisations: in 4.0 million for Candover and 32.6 million for the 2001 Fund: and February, Bourne Leisure was sold generating gains over cost for Springer and Gala have returned approximately half of the original Candover of 4.8 million and 40.0 million for the 1997 Fund.
In addition, agreement has been reached in March, the disposal of three investee companies took place: Baxi, relation to a refinancing of Vetco, which is expected to complete with gains over cost of 1.9 million for Candover, 0.4 million for in late March, and which will result in Vetco having returned the 1991 Fund and 7.4 million for the 1994 Fund: Clondalkin, with approximately one third of the original investment.
gains over cost of 4.8 million for Candover and 39.8 million for the 1997 Fund: and Centaur, which was listed on AIM, with gains Outlook over cost of 3.6 million for Candover.
In May, Earls Court & Olympia 2004 was an active year, both in terms of realisations and new was sold with gains over cost, including deferred consideration investments.
With the outlook for buyouts across Europe positive now received, of 2.9 million for Candover and 24.1 million for on most fronts, we believe we are well positioned to continue to the 1997 Fund.
In December, Picard Surgels was realised with see interesting investment opportunities over the coming year.
gains over cost of 13.6 million for Candover and 112.2 million As always, we will monitor the performance of all investee for the 1997 Fund.
These six realisations generated an aggregate companies closely to ensure performance is in line with return of three times the residual investment.
expectations, and formulate exit strategies as appropriate.
In April and July we sold our residual shares in Inveresk, generating gains over cost of 14.9 million for Candover and 123.8 million for the 1997 Fund, giving an overall return of C J Buffin 4.6 times the original investment.
M S Gumienny C L P Chevrillon 23rd March, 2005 08 Candover Report and accounts 2004
