Operational review As youve heard, 2003 04 was a year of massive root Boots The Chemists As customers responded to lower prices on around 2,000 lines, wider choice and better change for Boots.
From rebuilding our entire management availability, Boots The Chemists BTC made real progress in 2003 04.
Sales grew throughout structure to laying the foundations of a new store-friendly the year, and we enjoyed our second excellent Christmas in succession.
With renewed focus on our core healthcare business, we had our best year since 2000.
We were specially supply chain, we focused our efforts on initiatives pleased to regain market leadership in vitamins.
And, at the very heart of our business, our designed to transform our business over the next five relaunched Prescription Collection Service helped us to secure the loyalty of many of our dispensing customers.
In all, an encouraging year, as a visible improvement in our all-round years.
Yet, while looking to the future, we continued customer offering began to produce results.
to perform very solidly, in the here and now.
Boots The Strategy We believe the way forward for BTC is to build our future success on our Chemists delivered good sales growth throughout the traditional strength in healthcare.
That, of course, is what has made the Boots brand so widely trusted: and its also the common thread that runs through all our stores.
No less year, holding market share.
Boots Healthcare International important, its a growing market with an exciting future.
recorded sales of over 500m for the first time, growing Alongside our healthcare expertise, we need to offer the kind of products that give at around twice the rate of the market, and comfortably customers a compelling reason to shop at Boots.
To this end, were continuing to develop our own brand ranges, ensuring that within our product offering, there is a clear structure over-delivering on its strategic targets.
that enables customers to differentiate easily between good, better and best, and choose the brand which meets their particular needs.
Next, we must ensure that our customers feel they can expect fair prices from us, and real value for money.
Lower Prices Youll Love is a step in the right direction.
Strong promotions and our massively successful Advantage Card will lend strong support in this key area.
Boots The Chemists Sales m 4,475.7 Sales split m Increase % 4.5 Health 1,806.7 Profit m before exceptionals 531.1 Beauty & Toiletries 1,992.5 Decrease % 6.6 Lifestyle 676.5 08 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A further plank in our strategic platform: better, more welcoming stores, offering the right Beauty & Toiletries grew overall by 4.7%, with cosmetics and fragrances continuing to do product mix for the location.
A very important development here, is our new focus on very well, up in terms of both sales and market share.
Growth of only 0.9% in toiletries introducing three clearly defined simple store formats: destination, convenience and reflects our very substantial price investment in this area.
Were also beginning a major move into edge of town locations, Sales in other categories were flat overall.
Our Baby business grew by 4.5% as we seek to where we see significant potential for sales growth.
We opened 19 new stores last year, broaden our ranges to provide a more competitive offer, including the successful launch of with around 40 more to follow in 2004 05.
MiniMode clothing in our larger stores.
Our Food business grew by 2.5% helped by the Finally, it almost goes without saying that the outstanding level of expert customer care relaunch of our own Shapers brand.
Our Photo business declined by 6.0% as the market provided by our people will continue to give Boots a major competitive advantage.
for traditional film processing shrinks with the onset of digital photography.
To offset this, we are leading the market in offering digital film processing.
Management structure A critically important change in the structure of BTC was introduced during the past year.
We created a single commercial function, responsible Advantage Card The Boots Advantage Card has proved itself very well named in recent for every aspect of our customer offer product ranges: price and promotion: store years and is a real bonus for customers.
With over 16 million in circulation, its one of the environment: and communication.
By integrating these key functions, weve been able UKs most generous loyalty cards.
Not only is it a major sales driver for us, but also a source to work in a far more efficient and co-ordinated manner to ensure that were getting of invaluable customer information.
the retailing basics right in all our stores.
In September last year, the introduction of a new instant Advantage Card gave us an Trading Overall, BTC sales rose by 4.5% over the year 3.9% like-for-like.
Sales grew in even bigger competitive edge and a great incentive to our customers.
Tempted by the every quarter, and by 5.1% over the Christmas period, following on from an 8.1% increase opportunity to start collecting points on purchases immediately, over a million more the previous year.
Boots customers signed up for the card.
Renewed focus on our healthcare business resulted in sales growth of 6.0%, our best Health As youve read, we had an excellent year, as major investment in this key area of our performance since 2000.
As more customers signed up for our relaunched Prescription business reinforced the traditional strength of the Boots brand in all matters health-related.
Collection Service, dispensing was up by 6.3%, though this represented a small loss of In particular, the very large sums were spending on modernising our pharmacies enabled market share, which we are addressing through the introduction of our new health us to provide customers with a faster, more efficient service.
efficient and customer centred pharmacies were unveiled during the year.
And our new SmartScript IT system, was installed in over 550 stores, greatly improving the quality of our dispensing operation.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 09 Operational review We were very pleased, with the success of our advertising campaign for Prescription In food, where sales were up 2.5%, the years biggest story was the relaunch of Shapers, Collection Service.
For people with busy lives, as well as those who find getting around our second biggest brand after N7.
The lunchtime market is very large, and getting larger difficult, the advantage of us collecting their regular repeat prescriptions from their GPs is all the time.
And we believe that the new improved Shapers range, created with the help obvious: all they have to do is pop into Boots when their prescription is ready.
But there are of top chefs, has the potential to grow substantially over three years.
Customer reaction real business benefits for us, too.
Not only does the scheme greatly increase customer so far has been enthusiastic.
loyalty, it also means that we can dispense prescriptions at times planned to avoid the busy Photo sales were down by 6.0%, as the market for traditional film processing continued parts of the day when customers are wanting immediate service.
As a result of these its inevitable decline.
But even here, we have a positive story to tell: printing from digital developments, dispensing sales were up 6.3%.
cameras helped to offset the loss of sales.
And, as we continue to roll out our new digital Good sales of over the counter OTC medicines especially vitamins were driven by kiosks, well soon be able to process digital media cards in every store.
product innovation, as well as more competitive prices and promotions.
Products New and improved own brand products launched in the year included Boots Beauty & Toiletries The health of our customers may have been our highest priority, Basics, an entry level brand which was launched in Spring 2004, offering best quality at but we certainly didnt neglect their appearance.
Beauty & Toiletries sales were strong supermarket prices.
The new Soltan range was launched for summer 2004 with a market throughout the year.
leading claim, developed by inhouse suncare experts.
The Shapers brand was relaunched in January 2004 and won the British Sandwich Industry Awards 2004 for Cosmetics and fragrances were the star players here.
New fragrance launches for example, Sandwich Retail Multiple of the year.
New healthcare products included multivitamin Chance from Chanel, and more stores with prestige brands, such as Clinique and Clarins, gummy bears for children, and for adults, dissolve in your mouth vitamin strips.
And our biggest Boots brand, N7, had another excellent year, due to the continued success of Intelligent Colour Foundation, and some strong promotions.
Store development We know from customer feedback that our stores havent been inviting enough, and were addressing this through our store modernisation programme.
Sales in toiletries were up slightly as a result of price deflation.
But its no less important to ensure that each of our stores does the job that customers Lifestyle During the year we renamed this category which includes baby, food, photo and need it to do, according to its location.
We considerably improved our baby offering.
A number of our To this end, we have begun a programme of store development based on three simplified larger stores extended their baby departments, enabling them to carry a much wider formats: community chemists, with healthcare at the heart of our offer: convenience product range, including clothing and accessories: and smaller stores now have a better stores, offering rapid turnaround shopping, with food heavily featured: and destination selection of baby essentials.
As a result, sales increased by 4.5%.
stores, offering the entire Boots shopping experience, and worth a special trip.
10 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Introducing these new formats across our store portfolio will take time, but during the year, During the current year, boots.
com will develop a more compelling and complete offer we made an encouraging start.
July 2003 saw the launch of our Kingsway convenience with the addition of pharmacy medicines and prescription fulfilment online.
This will have store in London.
And in February 2004, we opened a pilot new-look community chemists gone live by the time you read this report.
Importantly, this initiative puts us in a strong in Urmston, near Manchester.
Both have been well received by customers.
position to benefit from the planned introduction of the new NHS IT systems, which will enable GPs to send their patients prescriptions direct to pharmacies.
The other major development last year was the rapid acceleration of our edge of town programme.
In the high street, we have 35% of health and beauty sales, out of town just We will also provide our customers with even more choice in our larger stores by allowing them 5%.
So we know that theres a great opportunity.
During the year, we opened 19 new to access the extended range of products available at boots.
This is achieved through the stores, and well be opening another 40 during 2004 05. development of new in-store ordering technology to be launched in summer 2004.
We also opened seven new health centre pharmacies giving Boots the opportunity to offer Boots Healthcare International our traditional dispensing expertise where the patients need it.
Boots Healthcare International BHI, over-delivered on year two of its four-year strategic plan, achieving sales of more than half a billion pounds for the first time.
Services including Opticians and Dentalcare For reasons of cost and efficiency, these This represented sales growth of 7.8% and profit growth of 14.9% at comparable businesses are now being integrated into BTC enabling us to cut costs by eliminating exchange rates.
duplication of functions such as marketing.
Previously, our opticians and dentists operated as stand-alone businesses, within our stores but largely independent of them.
Strategy BHI aims to become a top 10 global player in OTC healthcare, and to establish, through brand innovation, a top three leadership position in our three core consumer Previously this was especially valuable in the case of Boots Opticians, which had a tough healthcare categories of analgesics Nurofen, cough cold Strepsils and skincare Clearasil, year in a highly competitive market.
Sales were down by 3.0% like-for-like, but improved while also developing new brands.
buying terms and costs control meant that profitability nevertheless improved.
In February 2002 we announced a four-year plan to step up investment in marketing and Meanwhile, our decision to restructure our dentalcare business, began to pay off.
In order to achieve growth targets as rapidly as possible, it was dentists are now self-employed and their productivity has increased significantly during also part of this strategy to acquire brands with potential for rejuvination and development.
Sales were up by 11.1% like-for-like.
At the same time we set out financial goals for the four-year period.
com Underlying sales increased by 59% to 14.8m, bringing the business close to Trading With sales of 504.6m, we grew our business by 9.6% 7.8% at comparable break-even.
A 67% increase in the Christmas period, rising average transaction values and exchange rates, roughly twice the rate of the total OTC market.
Our core brands grew high customer interest in the Boots online offer are strong indications of the potential for at 10.0% comparable fuelled in particular by the new product development.
Opticians and Dentalcare Boots Healthcare International 1 Sales m 241.6 Sales m 504.6 Core brand sales m Increase % 1 Decrease % 6.6 Increase % 7.8 Nurofen 140.3 15.3 Operating loss m before exceptionals 5.1 Profit m before exceptionals 80.6 Clearasil 89.7 6.3 1 Increase % 83.5 Increase % 14.9 Strepsils 84.8 8.9 Dermocosmetics 51.3 5.7 1 at comparable exchange rates Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Operational review Operating profit was up by 14.9% comparable to 80.6m, and net margin grew by Country highlights BHI performed well in many of its established markets, particularly the 0.8 percentage points to 16.0%.
We maintained brand investment at 28.2% of sales, UK, Ireland and Australasia.
It was also a good year for BHI in development markets, with while operating costs reduced by 1.2 percentage points in relation to sales to 27.9%, double digit growth in Poland, Russia and India.
In Continental Western Europe, results compared with 29.1% last year.
were held back in part by uncertainties about healthcare reforms in France and Germany.
Analgesics Sales of Nurofen grew to 140.3m, up 15.3% comparable, against global Outlook Were confident BHI will continue to deliver on its strategic targets.
Well also be analgesics market growth of just 3.1%.
We achieved particularly strong sales, and pressing ahead with two important programmes: a major restructuring of our supply chain, increased market share, in Australia, UK, Ireland, Central Europe and Russia.
which will cut product costs and release working capital: and the introduction of new business processes and systems, which will significantly improve our efficiency and Key Nurofen product developments included a packaging relaunch: new easier to swallow speed to market.
tablets, and the launch of a new Migraine Pain variant.
In Australia, the switch from pharmacy only to general sales list status gave a further boost to sales.
Boots Retail International We are starting to see if theres real demand all over the world for Boots own Nurofen for Children continued to grow rapidly, gaining share in all markets.
brand products, and our expert customer care.
This was the year when Boots Cough & Cold Sales of Strepsils grew to 84.8m, up 8.9% comparable, against global Retail International BRI began to make real progress towards meeting that sore throat market growth of 5.8%.
Here, sales and share grew most strongly in Western demand, profitably.
Europe and the Middle East Africa.
Strategy Our long term vision is to help consumers throughout the world to look and Important brand developments included a global packaging relaunch, and the launch of feel their best.
Originally, we aimed to achieve this by opening stores: but we have since Streps Douceur in France.
developed a new implant strategy based upon taking the very best Boots own brand products currently, around 600-800 of them and offering them to shoppers in a Skincare Sales of Clearasil grew to 89.7m, up 6.3% comparable, in line with global market Boots-branded environment, within a host-retailers store.
Our strongest sales performances were in the UK, Australia, Russia and France.
The success of this strategy depends, crucially, on finding the right local partners.
And North America shipments were flat, but understate strong in-market consumption growth since we started to evolve this new approach in 2000 01, weve made exciting progress.
of 14.2%, due to the timing of the launch of Total Control a year ago.
Our most notable achievements to date have been in Hong Kong where we now have just over 30 highly successful implants in Watsons drugstores.
Boots Retail International Sales m 43.0 1 Increase % 20.8 Operating loss m before exceptionals 10.4 1 Increase % 54.3 1 at comparable exchange rates 12 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The challenge for BRI over the last year has been to continue to build on the success The expected cost of our redundancy programme is 45.5m.
Cost savings related to those of this new model, while rationalising unprofitable elements of the business.
departures amount to 31.4m in total, of which we invested 5.8m in creating 290 new jobs in our stores.
Trading Operating losses were down by 54.3% comparable last year.
Our Asia and exports businesses are now profitable at a regional level, and weve grown sales by By the time you read this, most of these jobs will already have gone, and we will be 16.1% 20.8% comparable, exceeding our projections.
looking ahead to a further round of job cuts in the current year, with the aim of bringing our total head office team down to around 1,500 people.
In South East Asia, our business is now profitable.
Our stores in Thailand are now trading profitably: a very significant milestone.
Weve worked very hard to make Getting in Shape as painless as possible for our people.
We announced the changes as soon as we could, and maintained open and honest In the USA, BRI USA are trialling our implant concession business, in partnership with two communication throughout the process.
And, as well as financial support, we provided leading retailers.
Weve now opened 18 implants with Target, mostly in Denver: and 12 those affected with expert advice and counselling on job opportunities.
As a result, we with the drugstore chain CVS, in Connecticut.
Its too soon to draw any conclusions, but were able to achieve almost all the redundancies voluntarily.
Supply and support services Outlook We are gaining confidence in the strategy for BRI.
We are starting to find that We want every customer to find exactly what they are looking for on our shelves, customers around the world like Boots products, and that our retail partners are seeing at a price they are happy to pay, every time they visit Boots.
The massive an enhanced offering with a Boots presence in their store.
programme of change necessary in order to deliver that gathered pace in 2003 04, Getting in Shape as our supply chain, manufacturing operation and IT function all underwent In 2002, we announced Getting in Shape, a cost-cutting programme intended to transformation.
Moving forward with this initiative was among the most important Store-friendly supply chain Despite fundamental restructuring of our supply chain, steps in making our business more modern, competitive and efficient.
and the opening of 35 new stores, we held availability at high levels throughout the year.
It was clear that our Nottingham head office had grown too large.
With a headcount of over 3,000, there were too many people, too many layers of management and nowhere near enough scope for quick, responsive decision-making.
Following a top-to-bottom organisational review, we announced in January that we would be cutting around 900 jobs, reducing numbers in virtually every department.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13 Operational review In 2002 03, we announced our plans to rebuild our supply chain which, rather like our The new picking and packing system means that stock fits much better into delivery head office, had become over-complicated.
Working backwards from what our customers vehicles, and the fact that goods now go directly to the stores greatly reduces want, the ultimate aim was to create a supply chain capable of delivering any stock item, unnecessary mileage.
in any quantity from singles upwards, direct to the shelf in any of our stores, every day.
A further environmental benefit is that, with the vast majority of goods unpacked at In the year under review, we made huge structural changes in preparation for rolling out the warehouse, we will improve the efficiency of our recovery and recycling operations.
Manufacturing In February 2003, we announced the closure of our factory in Airdrie.
Recognising the need for specialist logistical expertise, we outsourced our two largest Transferring production of many key lines to other manufacturing facilities has been a Nottingham warehouses to Unipart in August.
Under this deal, 600 Boots people were major logistical exercise: and we were also anxious to give our employees as much time transferred to employment with Unipart, and an extra 300 jobs were created, to handle as possible to find alternative employment.
So, for both these reasons, we scheduled the greatly increased workload involved in picking, packing and delivering to stores.
the closure to take place over a two-year period.
The principle that underlies this modernisation is simple: all the hard work will now Most of the Airdrie factorys production has now been transferred, with full supply being be done in the warehouse, enabling our stores to focus on selling, and caring for our maintained throughout.
To absorb this extra output, weve increased productivity at customers.
In addition, of course, stores will no longer need to hold large quantities existing factories, without adding to headcount.
As a consequence, productivity in our Nottingham Beauty Care Operation is up by 40% Even with the vast experience of Unipart, bringing our store-friendly supply chain into and unit cost down by 20%.
Weve also taken the opportunity of these changes to operation is a mammoth undertaking.
But already, our stores and, more importantly, our organise the way we make our products.
In many categories, weve been able to move customers are starting to see the benefits: and our plan is to ensure that the new system from making large batches to short cycle production, which is enabling us to respond is fully bedded down in time for Christmas this year.
much more quickly to the needs of our stores, and the demands of our customers.
As part of our store-friendly supply chain initiative, we also transferred the management Finally, weve been able to improve our capacity utilisation quite markedly as we filled of Boots transport services to Tibbett & Britten.
And the greatly increased efficiency of the up our factories in Nottingham, France and Germany.
new system is beginning to deliver important benefits in terms of better vehicle usage.
14 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Purchasing Building on last years success, we continued to make good use of innovative In our Wolverhampton and Burton-on-Trent stores, we trialled new wireless stock methods of purchasing, including internet auctions.
As a result, we saved a further 30m management systems, enabling store staff to carry out stock and price checks in real time, on goods not for resale.
without leaving the shop floor.
The time savings were very impressive, so well certainly be pursuing this.
Making IT Easy The massive programme of organisational change and modernisation which youve read about in this report would not be possible without a company-wide IT Two customer-facing IT successes during the year: our new gift card, an electronic version infrastructure of the highest quality.
During the year, we made very important progress of the traditional Boots gift voucher, was well received: and the launch of an instant towards putting that in place.
Advantage Card enabling customers to start collecting points straight away was an enormous success, contributing to the recruitment of around a million further Advantage Throughout our business, our aim is to invest heavily in the IT systems.
We need to make Card holders.
it easier for our people to do their jobs better, and to improve our customers shopping experience.
Our innovative outsourcing partnership with IBM and Xansa, now well Theres still a lot to be done.
But were committed to making the necessary investment, established, is enabling us to move forward towards this goal around three times and the benefits of our outsourcing partnership have already proved even greater than faster than was previously possible, and at much lower cost.
Were well on our way to delivering upon the working title of our systems investment programme: Making IT Easy.
Our new SmartScript pharmacy system, for example, was implemented in over 550 stores during the year.
Around 6,000 new generation touch-screen tills were installed in 2003 04 in nearly 500 stores, at a rate of eight stores per night and this will continue through 2004 05.
Importantly, these tills are also compatible with the new chip and PIN technology, currently being introduced to combat card fraud.
In addition, we launched a series of initiatives aimed at making stores more efficient.
Among these, were installing an advanced high capacity wide area network, making our stores a truly integrated part of our business for the first time.
All of our key systems from finance and HR to space and range planning can now be accessed from anywhere within our business.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15
