Operating Review A particularly buoyant first half of the year was followed by lower levels of activity in quarter three and a generally more active quarter four.
ICAPs Group turnover rose by 21% to 801.4 million for the year to 31 March 2004.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange movements, turnover growth was 12% compared with a 7% growth in the global interdealer broker market.
GROUP TURNOVER BY ACTIVITY 2004 m 365.0 GROUP TURNOVER BY ACTIVITY 2003 m 347.4 Securities markets Derivatives and money markets Group turnover in the securities markets Derivatives and money market Group 1 grew by 5% to 365.0 million and profit turnover grew by 17% to 309.2 million and 1 by 17% to 66.5 million with an improved profit by 31% to 68.5 million, with an margin of 18%.
The securities markets improved margin of 22%.
There was have had mixed results: US Treasuries and reasonable volatility in the medium term Mortgages, UK Gilts, Eurobonds and interest rate markets in 2003 and our Japanese Government Bonds have all interest rate swaps and options desks been active as a result of higher levels of have been very busy.
The Americas and new issuance for government deficit Europe are by far the largest markets and financing or movements in the medium the most significant contributors to profits.
and longer end of the yield curve.
Credit Inflation swaps have continued their rapid derivatives in London, New York and Hong expansion in Europe.
ICAPs significantly Kong have been very busy.
In the increased market share in US TIPS has Americas and Europe the low interest rate added the potential to expand the inflation environment boosted the volumes of swaps market.
Having got off to a slow Repurchase Agreements as customers start at the beginning of 2004, activity in were reluctant to undertake longer term the interest rate swaps market picked up trades.
BrokerTec, which operates mainly significantly as a run of economic data in the shorter dated Repurchase Agreement announcements from the US caused huge markets, benefited with an increase in swings in market sentiment regarding the volumes.
US agencies saw slower markets.
outlook for the US economy.
This, in turn, Overall corporate bond markets were slower has exerted a strong influence on medium than the very busy markets in the previous and long term interest rates.
However volatility returned to these markets in the second half.
Note 1 Profit is defined as pre-tax operating profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items, interest and share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates.
We continue to believe that this measure better reflects the Groups performance and it is reconciled to statutory profit before interest and tax in the segmental analysis shown in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 10 SECURITIES BROKING 309.2 41.4 62.0 23.8 264.9 28.5 10.8 12.7 Energy markets Following the BrokerTec acquisition, Acquisitions The energy businesses Group turnover ICAPs electronic broking footprint is much The key strategic objective in 2003 2004 1 grew by 45% to 41.4 million and profit more extensive than any other broker was to complete the acquisition of BrokerTec by 21% to 5.2 million.
Margins were slightly and currently includes active and offin May 2003 and to integrate BrokerTec reduced to 13% as we invest in building the-run US Treasuries, Bills, Notes, into the business.
The technology project to market share.
These results include the Bonds, Strips, TIPS and Basis trading as cross-connect BrokerTecs and ICAPs effect of a full year of the acquisition of well as Agencies and Mortgages: European, electronic platforms in the US Treasury APB Energy completed in October 2002 UK, Australian, Japanese and South African markets was completed in September and the results of Intercontinental Energy government bonds: US$ and euro providing combined voice and electronic Brokers since the acquisition in London repurchase agreements and Eurobonds.
access into a combined liquidity pool.
The overall market has not ICAP has seen significant growth in its seen significant volume growth this year There are significant opportunities to link market share in the US Treasuries market.
but we have strong market positions in ICAPs electronic broking capabilities with Estimated voice and electronic market electricity, natural gas, coal, oil and other other distribution channels.
In February share in US Treasury products increased energy related products and believe that 2004 ICAP and Trading Technologies to 51% in March 2004 from 41% in energy broking has significant long term International, Inc. agreed to launch an September 2003, thus making ICAP the potential.
Continuing turbulence in the alternative marketplace in US Treasury clear overall market leader in US Treasury oil market created ideal market conditions benchmark issues using Trading broking.
and made significant contribution to Technologies system.
It provides market US Treasury products include bills, notes and the results.
professionals worldwide with the ability to bonds, strips, TIPS and basis trading.
trade US Treasury issues with futuresElectronic broking style execution on ICAPs BrokerTec Electronic broking Group turnover platform.
We have also formed a strategic increased to 62.0 million largely as a alliance with MarketAxess Inc. to provide result of the successful acquisition of electronic trading of government bonds, 1 BrokerTec in May 2003.
Profit rose to including US Treasury benchmark securities, 4.7 million and the margin increased over the MarketAxess platform.
to 8% after a loss in the previous year.
We estimate that electronic broking now Information services accounts for 14% of the global interdealer Turnover increased by 87% to 23.8 million, broking market with most of the growth largely due to the addition of the BrokerTec in the securities markets.
Electronic information contracts in May 2003 and 1 broking is particularly successful in highly profit before tax rose from 8.1 million to liquid and commoditised products where 15.4 million giving a margin of 65%.
The trading volumes can be very high data vendors market remains tight but we compared with the revenues generated.
are working to expand new product coverage.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 11 DERIVATIVES AND MONEY BROKING ENERGY BROKING E-BROKING INFORMATION SERVICES
