Employee Benefits Revenue m USA 23.7 UK Ireland Employee Benefits 59.2 JLT is one of the very few employee benefit consultancies to offer a one-stop source for centralised pensions and flexible benefits packages.
Our strategy is based on putting together a cohesive programme of solutions, professionally managed in-house and delivered on a case-by-case basis.
Services include: Pensions consulting and administration Integrated healthcare solutions Flexible benefits Communication solutions Executive pensions Annuity services Key person and business protection Group marketing and risk broking Services for financial institutions The Employee Benefits group employs in the region of 1,300 professional staff in the UK, Ireland and the USA.
The quality of our people is the keystone of our business, because of the emphasis we place on efficient teamwork, innovative thinking and customer orientation.
Our clients include many major international companies, but our structure is designed to provide solutions for companies of all sizes.
The close relationships we build with our clients and their employees are, we believe, the key to the high levels of customer retention achieved.
In 2004 Employee Benefits revenue grew by 9% to 82.9 million 12% at constant rates of exchange.
Profit before tax for the Employee Benefits business segment was 11.7 million compared to 9.7 million, an increase of 20%.
Trading profit was 12.2 million, an increase on 2003 of 21%, giving a trading margin of 15% compared to 13% in the previous year.
13 Operational Review UK Employee Benefits Revenue for JLTs Employee Benefits business in the UK and Ireland was 59.2 million, 16% ahead of 2003.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenue growth was 10%.
Trading profit was 8.6 million, an increase of 30% on 2003, giving a trading margin of 15%, the level that has been targeted since 2001.
The business has continued to achieve a consistent level of new business and has a substantial pipeline as we enter 2005.
In the UK, the growth strategy has three strands: We are a leading provider of services to traditional occupational pension schemes.
We continue to expand services to pension and benefit programmes - increasingly integral parts of company HR strategies.
We are building on the marketing and service opportunities offered by our acquisition of Profund, a leading provider of pension software and related services.
We are determined to consolidate our position among the leading providers of services in relation to traditional occupational pension schemes: both defined benefit and defined contribution.
We see operation and administration becoming the preserve of a reducing number of outsourced service providers.
Given the prohibitive costs of winding-up schemes, run-off services will continue to be required for decades to come, providing long-term and predictable revenue.
This strategy will be underpinned by our continued focus on operating efficiency.
At the same time UK Employee Benefits continues to expand as a provider of services in relation to the pension and benefit programmes and products that companies are increasingly using as integral parts of their continuing HR strategies.
Now that the future legal and fiscal regime governing pensions is becoming clear, the expansion of our activities as a service provider for these programmes and products has become a major strategic focus for the business.
Major developments in 2004 included further substantial contract wins to provide pension product administration services to major life assurance companies.
Our work with Friends Provident, which began in June, has led to 100 former Friends Provident employees joining JLT.
Other significant business wins included work for a variety of large organisations such as Norwich Union, Big Food Group and the Tote.
14 In August we acquired certain assets of Profund, a leading UK provider of pension scheme software and related services.
Profunds Classic and oPen Pension Software platforms are extensively used in our administration business.
As a member of the JLT Group, Profund is trading strongly, with the vast majority of its customer relationships retained and sales and product development programmes already delivering profitable revenue.
We have many new business opportunities and several large contracts with life assurers and other financial institutions nearing completion.
In addition, we are progressing a number of strategic and operational projects, which we expect both to add to revenues and to improve margins still further.
USA Employee Benefits The Employee Benefits business in the USA produced revenue of 23.7 million in 2004, 6% down on 2003 5% growth at constant rates of exchange.
Profit before tax of 3.8 million represented growth of 6%.
The trading margin has increased from 14% to 15% for the year reflecting continued control of costs.
The USA Employee Benefits business operates in two principal areas: third-party administration and underwriting agency services.
As a third-party administrator, we provide insurance claim processing, premium billing and collection services.
This is a highly price competitive sector with a heavy reliance upon process efficiency and IT systems.
During 2004, the sector has seen a significant shift of business to offshore administrators, particularly in India.
This has increased further the downward pressure on pricing and, set against this backdrop, our modest increase in revenue over 2003 is satisfactory.
We are reviewing our activities in the sector during the first quarter of 2005.
We act as an underwriting agent for specific schemes of insurance, responsible for marketing, underwriting and administration.
Alternatively, we act for an association, providing broking, marketing and administration services, relating to a suite of insurance-based member benefits.
Trading as JLT Program Administrators and JLT Affinity Solutions, we achieved growth in this area in 2004 despite a challenging market environment.
