Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 7 Operating Review Operating Review Man Group has enjoyed an outstanding year both in terms of continued strong profits growth and asset raising.
We have continued to capitalise on our established presence and scale in both our businesses and more than achieved our financial targets.
Overview In July, we acquired the 50% of OM Strategic Our long-standing key financial and strategic Investments Limited OMSI which we did not objectives are: already own.
OMSI is based in Sydney and has operated for many years as sponsor and Delivering significant growth in underlying distributor of Mans products, principally in the earnings per share as defined on page 1.
In February 2004 OMSI Driven by strong growth in funds under renamed itself Man Investments Australia.
management, net management fee income before goodwill amortisation is up over In Brokerage we have completed the full 50% to 271.1 million.
Together with net integration of GNI, which has provided profits from our Brokerage business, up significant cost savings, with associated 47% to 70.8 million, this has resulted in first half exceptional integration costs of diluted underlying earnings per share 5.3 million.
Brokerage is well placed Stanley Fink increasing by 37% to 83.1p.
strategically in its main futures and options Chief Executive markets and is using its customer relationships Maintaining high levels of return on capital.
and market presence to develop an increasing Post-tax return on average equity in the range of product capabilities.
current period was a very satisfactory 32.2% 2003: 26.9%.
Asset Management In Asset Management, we have continued Alternative investment market to capitalise on our established presence Calendar 2003 was a record year for the and scale in the fast growing alternative industry with net inflows for hedge funds investment market.
estimated at $72 billion according to TASS Research.
This represents a significant jump We have made significant progress in building from 2002 when $16 billion was raised and the relationships with high quality new and previous highest year in 2001 with $31 billion.
established managers across a range of Large institutional investors appear to have complementary styles.
At 31 March 2004, been a key contributor to the growth, and high Man Global Strategies had agreements in net worth individuals and endowments also place with 32 affiliated managers, a net played a major role as investors increasingly increase of 15 since 31 March 2003. look to hedge funds as a way of achieving Likewise, RMFs sponsored programme, absolute returns and or diversification.
Hedge Fund Ventures, has now seeded nine managers.
Our fund of hedge funds Overall, assets under management in the businesses have also made continued industry have grown at a compound average progress in sourcing new managers and annual rate of 28% since 1990.
As of January we are now invested in over 270 managers 2004, total assets were estimated to stand at in total.
In December, we acquired 25% of $817 billion excluding private equity and real BlueCrest Capital Management, a hedge estate in some 6,300 funds, of which over fund manager focused on fixed income and 1,200 are funds of hedge funds.
The acquisition of the interest in BlueCrest is part of Mans Growth of the global hedge fund industry strategy to continue to access high quality Number of hedge funds managers with a material amount of additional Hedge fund assets capacity and as a consequence of this US$ bn Number of hedge funds transaction Man will receive preferential 7000 900 access to available capacity from BlueCrest.
800 6000 BlueCrest has a strong brand name and an 700 established track record and Man has been 5000 600 an investor in its core fund since inception.
4000 500 In the US, we have recently launched an 400 3000 SEC registered fund designed specifically for 300 2000 qualified individual retirement accounts and 200 1000 100 tax-exempt investors.
0 0 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 We will continue to invest in people, systems and infrastructure to provide scale to Asset Source: Hedge Fund Research As at 31 December Management to cater for continued strong growth.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 8 Operating Review According to HedgeWorld, approximately Funds under management US$ billion 75% of hedge fund assets under management March AcquisitionsSales Investment Redemptions FX March are invested in strategies that are oriented 2003 movement and other 2004 toward equities and the remainder is invested in strategies oriented toward fixed income, 3.0 4.2 1.5 futures, foreign exchange, and emerging 15.8 RMF markets.
Currently, assets are allocated by 11.5 the industry into the following broad categories.
0.6 11.1 4.9 Glenwood Global breakdown by strategy 5.0 10.3 AHL Equity Long Short 29% 6.3 Market Neutral Arbitrage 26% 7.5 Other 3.7 Global Macro 17% 26.1 38.5 Total Event-Driven 15% Managed Futures 9% Other 4% The hedge fund asset class is rapidly maturing.
As demonstrated by the continued strong 100% Investors are becoming increasingly well growth in funds under management, Man Source: HedgeWorld, Barclay Group educated about the asset class.
In a maturing Investments had another outstanding year.
Man has a deliberate focus on quantitative hedge fund industry, hedge fund managers The chart above breaks out the component strategies and those styles that have a low will increasingly need to have strong points of parts underlying this growth during the year.
They may set themselves apart As can be seen the key feature has been the Man has a much higher weighting to the through strong performance, value added continued strong level of sales.
managed futures sector, which accounts for product formation and investor services, or around one third of its assets, with most of all of these.
The industry is in good shape Sales and distribution this being offset by a lower weighting to the with an influx of new talent and trading Man had an outstanding year with sales of equity long short sector and to a lesser extent approaches matched by continuous attrition $11.5 billion, up from $6.7 billion in the prior global macro.
that is removing the less talented players.
Sales were strong across the different Going forward, funds of hedge funds will sectors of Mans business.
These include the Despite the growth of institutional investments increasingly become the gateway to the global launches, joint venture sales, openin hedge funds, the single largest source of industry.
ended sales and fund of funds sales aimed assets is still thought to be high net worth at institutional investors.
Funds of hedge Man Investments Sales in the year to 31 March 2004 US$bn funds vehicles are estimated in aggregate Man Investments is a leading provider of to allocate more than $300 billion of assets hedge funds to both private and institutional 1 Global launches: 3.3 2003: 2.2 to hedge funds due in large measure to their investors.
It provides innovative products and 2 JVs: 2.1 2003: 0.8 3 Open-ended private investor: 2.4 2003: 1.3 being the vehicle of choice through which tailor made solutions.
Man has focused its 4 Institutional: 3.7 2003: 2.4 institutions invest in the hedge fund industry.
Asset Management activities exclusively on The fund of funds sector is becoming alternative investments and our track record increasingly concentrated.
The top 10 fund stretches back more than two decades.
4 1 of funds managers have total funds under The length and quality of this track record is management of $114 billion, which critical in an industry whose central goal is to represents almost 40% of all assets managed provide diversification away from traditional by funds of funds and around 14% of total equity and bond investments.
hedge fund assets under management.
We have established a new management Top 10 fund of funds managers and governance structure based upon our 2 complete firm business model.
This model Funds under management 3 December 2003 has guided the recent success of the business Firm $bn and provides a rational and scaleable GAM Multi-Manager 17.9 6% arrangement of specialisms.
The model aligns We deliver our products through a powerful Man Global Strategies 16.0 5% the key components of the value chain under: distribution network that we have built up RMF 12.5 4% Distribution, Product Structuring and Content.
over the previous two decades.
We have Permal Group 11.1 4% The objective is to continue to achieve a level established offices strategically located to Union Bancaire Prive 10.9 4% of excellence in each component of the value serve our investors around the world.
Quellos 10.33% chain, thereby enabling us to sustain our Historically the largest markets have been Ivy Asset Mgmt 9.5 3% growth momentum.
Western Europe excluding the UK and Asia UBS Global Asset Management A&Q 9.4 3% Pacific including Australia and New Zealand.
Financial Risk Management 8.6 3% We have also taken continuing measures Sales this year have broadly reflected this mix Goldman Sachs Asset Management 8.3 3% to scale the business and have recruited with Europe, and in particular Switzerland, 114.5 38% several key employees in most of the major being strong.
Source: Investhedge, Company departments, which have further increased the strength and depth of those departments.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 9 Operating Review Sales - year to 31 March 2004 RMF Four Seasons Strategies and RMF Absolute Return Strategies.
These and other 1 Europe 64% 2003: 53% 2 Asia Pacific 20% 2003: 26% products continue to be offered to investors 3 Americas 10% 2003: 12% on a world-wide basis and are complemented 4 Middle East 6% 2003: 9% by products focused on particular markets.
4 For example, during the year we launched 3 our first domestic product in Switzerland, 1 Man Multi-Strategy CH Fund and are expecting to launch a second product focusing on the Hong Kong market during the autumn of 2004.
2 Fund of funds sales to institutions accounted Chris Chambers for $3.7 billion.
These are generally the result Chief Executive, Man Investments of direct relationships with the client institution, in some cases working with consultants.
Before the acquisition of RMF, Man Investments had been active in the institutional market, We have an extensive intermediary network mainly in Japan and the Middle East.
The covering a very wide array of institutions and acquisition of RMF brought, in addition to a financial professionals with a client base of highly respected track record as a leading private investors.
These intermediaries fund of hedge fund manager, a professional include asset managers, banks, brokers and sales team focused on institutions in Europe, IFAs.
We seek constantly to grow the quality with a particularly strong client base in and absolute size of the network.
Following the integration of RMF last year, and the Number of intermediaries combination of sales forces, we have been as at 31 March 2004 working to broaden this client base across Europe and have had success in winning 1800 mandates in France and the UK, and made 1,644 1600 good progress elsewhere, most notably in 1400 1,282 The Netherlands.
1200 1,011 1000 805 Outside Europe, as interest in these products 709 600 continues to develop, other strategic areas 504 for institutional sales include Asia Pacific, 400 285 particularly Japan, and the Middle East.
To take 200 advantage of this growth in the institutional March March March March March March March market, Man has strengthened its consulting 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 capabilities to provide added value in the development of institutional relationships.
The increase in funds under management in the year from Mans four global launches In North America, we continue to support the Man Multi-Strategy Series 5 and 6, Man objective of building a distribution network to AP Unison Series 1, Man Global Strategies address a mass-affluent investor universe, Diversified was a record $3.3 billion, up from and to structure attractive products within the $2.2 billion in the prior year.
The global launch US onshore regulatory framework.
We have of Man RMF Multi-Style raised $819 million of signed up 64 intermediaries and are continuing investor money and started trading in May to see sales of our registered product.
It is therefore not included in the sales the end of the year, Man launched the Groups figures for the year to 31 March 2004. first US SEC registered fund of hedge funds designed specifically for qualified individual Sales of our joint venture or white label retirement accounts and tax-exempt investors business accounted for $2.1 billion.
where we work with another financial institution, typically a bank, and construct a customised Redemptions product to meet their specific requirements for Redemption levels in private investor products distribution to their client bases.
in the year at 12% were at the bottom of the 12-18% range that we have typically experienced Open-ended sales accounted for $2.4 billion.
We have observed little These represent sales of products which correlation between redemptions and fund are continuously open to investment.
Redemptions are a function of include a large range of products such as a number of factors that determine investor Man AHL Diversified plc, which offers weekly behaviour including geographical diversity.
liquidity to investors, Man Arbitrage Strategies Furthermore, early redemption charges and and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund.
the extended tenor of most structured note We also offer a range of products utilising the products encourage investors to maintain the skills of RMF, including Man RMF Diversified, long term view.
Our success has been based on delivering high-quality hedge fund investment content to investors, in the form of attractive fund structures.
Our aim is to continue to focus on this core activity.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 11 Operating Review Institutional redemptions totalled some Man Multi-Strategy Series 5 and 6, the first in the US.
The structure of the fund allows $2.5 billion.
Of this, around $400 million and last global launches of the financial year, eligible investors with tax advantaged status represented switches at RMF whereby are part of our successful multi-strategy pension plans, employee benefit plans, investors redeemed from one fund product family of products focused on four broad foundations and endowments and individual and reinvested in another, which is included categories: Securities Selection long short, retirement accounts IRAs access to the in both redemptions and sales.
Other outflows Event Driven, Managed Futures and Market portfolio of an already established multiin RMF amounted to $0.9 billion.
They target returns of strategy fund of hedge funds with a ten-year redemptions were $1.2 billion, which is mainly 15-17% per annum with the aim of restricting track record.
due to management changes and undervolatility to around 10-12%, and benefit from performance up to the beginning of the year.
an investment exposure of US$ Euro 150 for Investment Managers Glenwoods funds under management have every US$ Euro 100 invested.
Our core investment managers provide the now stabilised.
investment content for the products and Man AP Unison Series 1 represents the solutions we structure.
They focus exclusively Product structuring and financing latest addition to the innovative Man AP on portfolio construction and management, Man has spent two decades understanding product family.
It continues the AP familys while benefiting from Man's solid business investor requirements, identifying opportunities conservative investment theme whilst providing and corporate infrastructure.
Each has and developing leading-edge products and even greater diversification.
It targets returns distinct expertise as manifested in a diverse tailor-made solutions that cater to the varied of 14-16% per annum over the medium-term range of portfolios offering different target needs of institutional and private investors.
with targeted volatility of 8-10% and benefits risk reward profiles.
During the year, 61 new products were from an investment exposure of US$ Euro successfully developed and we currently 150 for every US$ Euro 100 invested.
We aim to access high-quality hedge fund actively manage 344 products.
capacity through a range of methods.
These Man Global Strategies Diversified was include partnerships with new start-up Our structuring expertise enables us to offer structured to provide access to a wider managers through our Man Global Strategies a range of product types.
For the private range of managers and strategies that give and Hedge Fund Venture programmes, investor, our structured products have been even greater diversification for lower volatility, optimising the more diversified capacitythe most sought after, and these products while still providing the clear advantages accessing capability of our two fund of currently account for about 72% of our private of principal protection, profit lock-in and hedge fund engines, RMF and Glenwood.
The bulk increased investment exposure.
It targets Most recently, Man has broadened its of our structured offerings provide principal returns of 13-15% per annum over the strategy to include the taking of equity stakes protection in the form of capital guarantees, medium-term with targeted volatility of 7-8% in developed Managers and in December with a fixed life to maturity and monthly liquidity.
and benefits from an investment exposure it acquired 25% of BlueCrest Capital of US$ Euro 150 for every US$ Euro 100 Management, an alternative asset manager We adapt principal protection structures to invested.
focused on fixed income and currencies meet investor needs and continue to offer based in London.
existing features such as variable capital Man Multi-Strategy Series 5 was the first guarantees, which make provision for profits product in the Man Multi-Strategy product As can be seen from the table below, the to be locked-in, so that the level of principal family to offer investors a choice of both one, three and five-year performance records protection at maturity is raised above the capital and income bonds as well as carrying have continued to be strong.
In addition, we provide a guarantee of return of capital at maturity innovative solutions to particular markets, along with a profit lock-in feature that may Performance records both in terms of product characteristics allow the guarantee level to rise.
Man RMF Compound annual rate of return to for example, variable coupons and capital Multi-Style was the first product to combine 31 March 2004 protection levels and in terms of structuring RMFs investment selection expertise, asset 1 year to 3 years to 5 years to 31 March 2004 31 March 2004 31 March 2004 features, often working with other financial allocation and risk management skills with the AHL Diversified institutions to wrap products to suit investor added benefits of Man Investments' structuring 1 Programme 18.3% 12.5% 16.6% needs.
Structuring advances and sophisticated capabilities.
It also offered a CHF-Class 2 RMF 12.3% 7.4% 9.6% financing arrangements enable us to optimise Bonds, in addition to the usual USD-Class 3 Man-Glenwood 5.4% 2.5% 8.7% cash usage for increasingly diversified and EUR-Class Bonds.
Man Global 4 4 portfolios that include cash-intensive hedge Strategies 9.1% 7.6% n a fund strategies.
Our approach to creating The OM-IP 130 Plus, OM-IP 140 Plus and HFRI Fund of Funds Composite and managing principal protected structures OM-IP 220 Series 9 have a similar structure Index 14.1% 5.9% 8.8% continues to be guided by the requirement to the Man-IP 220 family based around S&P 500 35.1% 0.6% 1.2% that every portfolio should be able to withstand the core investment approaches of the AHL FTSE 100 25.2% 5.0% 4.0% market shocks and maintain the trading capital Diversified Programme and the Man-Glenwood Source: Man database, Standard & Poors Micropal and HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index.
required to achieve its target performance.
However, OM-IP 130 Plus and 1 AHL Diversified: represented by Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited.
2 140 Plus are the first to be launched by Man RMF: represented by RMF Absolute Return Strategies I fund dividends reinvested.
The latest product launches covered a full which carry capital guarantees, from a highly 3 Man-Glenwood: represented by Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited.
range of investment strategies and offered rated bank, to return at least 130% and 140% 4 Man Global Strategies: represented by Man Multi-Strategy varying levels of targeted returns and volatility.
respectively of subscribers initial investment.
Inception July 2000 so five year track record not available.
These products also offered investors a range OM-IP Multi-Strategy has a similar structure Note: All figures are shown net of fees and commissions, where applicable.
S&P 500 and FTSE 100 figures include gross dividends of features including: increased investment to the Man Multi-Strategy product family.
exposure through leverage: capital guarantees from highly rated banks to return at least After the year-end, we launched Man- 100% of subscribers initial investment at Glenwood Lexington TEI, LLC, the Groups maturity: profit lock-in features that may allow first SEC registered fund of hedge funds the guarantee level to rise: and giving investors designed specifically for qualified individual a choice of both capital and income bonds.
retirement accounts and tax-exempt investors Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 12 Operating Review AHL Diversified Programme performance The overall performance of AHL is illustrated In addition, RMF maintains an incubator of 20 December 1990 to 31 March 2004 by the AHL Diversified Programme, as shown hedge funds HFV with a separate team in the table opposite.
The programme has focusing on this area.
To date it has seeded AHL Diversified Programme proved its ability to outperform world stocks nine managers.
RMF utilises a fund, with World stocks World bonds with controlled risk and the AHL Diversified external investors, designed as a vehicle for fund has recorded a compound annual return sponsoring new managers.
The investment 13,000 11,000 of 20% from 20 December 1990 to 31 March terms usually involve holding equity in the 9000 2004.
The returns from AHL have an extremely management company along with capacity- 7000 low correlation to stock market returns over access agreements.
The situations in which 5000 the period since inception AHL has a 0.2 it invests typically involve a credible senior 3000 correlation to the MSCI World Stock Index.
management team setting up a new independent programme within the wellRMF Absolute Return Strategies established fide-consolidation tendency performance among hedge fund managers.
1000 1 July 1998 to 31 March 2004 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 The year to 31 March 2004 was strong for RMF Absolute Return Strategies I Index value US$ Log scale RMF with diversified multi-manager products, World stocks 1 AHL Diversified World stocks World bonds World bonds such as RMF Absolute Return Strategies I, Total return 1,002.9% 204.1% 224.3% generating returns in excess of 12% with a 1600 Annualised return 19.7% 8.7% 9.2% low associated volatility of under 3%.
The 1400 Annualised volatility 17.0% 14.1% 7.6% Event Driven and Global Macro strategy Worst drawdown 21.1% 46.3% 8.6% 1200 groups delivered the greatest returns.
In the Sharpe ratio 0.92 0.33 0.67 Event Driven category, strong gains from 1000 Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
distressed securities managers underpinned 1 AHL Diversified: represented by the performance of Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited prior to 1 October 1997, actual trading results have been 800 returns as an ongoing tightening in high yield adjusted to reflect the current guaranteed public fee structure.
World stocks: credit spreads proved beneficial.
A number of MSCI World Stock Index total return.
World bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond Index total return.
managers within the Global Macro strategy 600 profited from the downward trend in the US 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 AHL dollar, while the Managed Futures category Index value US$ Log scale AHL implements managed futures investment also performed well, despite sharp price programmes.
These programmes are RMF reversals in June July.
The Relative Value and Absolute Return quantitative and primarily directional in nature, Equity Hedged categories posted solid gains.
Strategies I World stocks World bonds meaning that they seek to take advantage of Total return 56.8% 7.6% 59.0% upward and downward price trends.
Funds Glenwood portfolio performance Annualised return 8.1% 1.3% 8.4% under management in the programme 1 January 1987 to 31 March 2004 Annualised volatility 3.8% 16.9% 8.5% increased during the year from $6.3 billion Worst drawdown 7.3% 46.3% 8.6% Glenwood to $10.3 billion.
Sharpe ratio 1.26 n a 0.59 World stocks World bonds Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
The ability of the AHL programmes to World Stocks: MSCI World Stock 6000 manage higher levels of assets whilst Index total returns.
World bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond 5000 avoiding performance degradation depends Index total return.
4000 on a process of continuous refinement, including trading model improvements, RMF 3000 sophisticated portfolio construction, the RMF provides fund of hedge funds and 2000 addition of new markets and the introduction bespoke solutions for institutional investors of higher capacity products.
as well as convertible bond and leveraged finance products.
This content has been 1000 The AHL Diversified Programme, as attractive to institutional investors and represented by the performance of Athena increasingly has been applied also in structured 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Guaranteed Futures, recorded a strong return and open-ended products directed at private Index value Log scale of 18.3% in the year to 31 March 2004. investor channels.
The process of progressively Glenwood Portfolio World stocks World bonds Profits from foreign exchange, metals and deploying RMF fund of hedge fund content Total return 468.0% 321.8% 359.0% stock index markets bolstered the programmes in higher-margin retail-directed product has Annualised return 10.6% 8.7% 9.2% returns, with the broad-based downward reached a significant stage of maturity with Annualised volatility 6.1% 15.3% 8.0% trend of the US dollar proving particularly the recent global launch of Man RMF MultiWorst drawdown 13.6% 46.3% 8.6% beneficial.
Established short positions in Style, a global offering of a capital-protected Sharpe ratio 0.96 0.26 0.56 the US currency thrived after the US dollar retail product with underlying RMF content, Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
tumbled on the back of concerns over which raised a record $819 million.
Glenwood Portfolio: represented by the performance of Glenwood Partners L. P. net of fees and commissions from 1 January 1987 to 31 the size of the countrys budget and current December 1995 and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited from 1 January 1996 to 31 March 2004.
World Stocks: MSCI World Stock account deficits.
In the metals sector, long Index total return.
World Bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond base metal positions were well placed to Index total return.
benefit from a general upward trend in prices during the year, while long stock index positions captured gains amid strengthening equity markets.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 13 Operating Review Glenwood Man Global Strategies Man Global Strategies constructs a number Glenwood has been a pioneer in providing Man Global Strategies constructs and manages of separate products designed to target multi-manager funds of hedge funds hedge style and multi-strategy portfolios, varying levels of risk.
The manager has portfolios that target stable risk-adjusted including the portfolios for Man Investments shown a consistent ability to produce returns, activities not correlated to other asset structured products.
As a result, its funds as shown by the first multi-manager launch classes.
Glenwood has been selecting and under management comprise allocations Man-IP 220 in 1996 which has returned 261.8% combining hedge funds to generate strong to both affiliated managers and to Man at a compound annual return of 19.2%, from risk-adjusted returns since 1987 making it Investments core managers, AHL, Glenwood inception to 31 March 2004.
As more managers one of the most long-established fund of and RMF.
In the funds under management have been sourced and have been developed hedge fund managers.
It seeks to minimise chart, shown above, we have broken down so Man Global Strategies has been able to manager, strategy and market risk by the Man Global Strategies products into the pass the benefits of this diversification on investing across a diversified range of constituent parts to avoid a double count.
to clients by improving risk adjusted returns.
approved managers that implement As a stand-alone multi-manager provider, Such products include the Man-AP Stratum complementary investment strategies.
Man Global Strategies would rank as one of the and Man Multi-Strategy portfolios which largest fund of funds managers globally being are increasingly diversified but continue to Glenwood delivered good results in the year responsible for around $17 billion at 31 March produce annualised returns of 17.0% and to 31 March 2004 on a risk-adjusted basis, 2004, up from $11 billion at 1 April 2003.
13.0% from their respective inceptions to although the absolute risk and return levels 31 March 2004 at respectively lower risk were relatively low.
Performance from the The manager sourcing activities form levels.
The approach which has led to this Glenwood Portfolio was positive over the alliances with selected managers through ability to offer better risk adjusted returns period.
In achieving a profit of 5.4%, the strategic relationships, affiliations, capacity provides access to multiple investment Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund posted agreements and joint venture structures.
strategies, most of which have relatively gains in each month of the year and recorded The manager portfolio reflects a wide range low correlation to traditional assets.
As can a volatility of under 1%.
The Equities Either of relative manager maturities, from established be seen in the chart, Man Multi-Strategy Long Short, Sector Investments and Distressed managers through to start-up incubation Guaranteed Limited has demonstrated Securities strategies registered healthy profits, projects, some of which are nurtured through its value as part of a diversified portfolio, with long short equities managers achieving a trader hotel concept that enables Man generating a return of 9.1% in the year impressive returns amid an upward trend in to provide a supportive environment for the to 31 March 2004. equity markets.
Other strategies that achieved early stages of managers businesses.
In all gains included the Mergers & Reorganisations activities manager sourcing, due diligence, and Multi-Strategy categories.
Overall portfolio construction, monitoring there is performance was restricted by losses from a strong emphasis on risk management and short sellers, while disappointing returns from on operational financial control at both the Equities Balanced and Commodities & Futures manager level and in the disciplines of the managers also weighed on performance.
Man Global Strategies content engine itself.
Man Global Strategies currently has 11 strategic Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited alliances, 21 capacity relationships and four performance others in early stages of sponsorship.
The range 15 July 2000 to 31 March 2004 of hedge fund styles represented in the portfolio includes arbitrage, directional, equity hedge, Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited long short equities and managed futures.
World stocks World bonds 1800 1600 1400 1200 1000 900 2001 2002 2003 2004 Index value US$ Log scale Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd World stocks World bonds Total return 58.0% 17.6% 46.9% Annualised return 13.0% 5.0% 10.8% Annualised volatility 11.2% 16.6% 8.6% Worst drawdown 11.1% 44.6% 7.1% Sharpe ratio 0.94 n a 0.97 Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
The performance record shown for Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited is based on US$ denominated returns.
World Stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
We have successfully integrated RMF and GNI, acquired last year, into our existing businesses and their contribution has met, or exceeded, our expectations.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 15 Operating Review further driving volumes.
Technology is not only Brokerage Man Financial is one of the worlds largest having an increasing effect on costs but is also futures and options brokers and commands increasing market access as online trading a global financial presence with offices that products link to the exchanges.
As Man include New York, Chicago, London, Paris, Financial grows its market share, it benefits Singapore, Sydney and Taiwan.
Today the further from the growth in overall market division provides intermediary and matched volumes.
The following graph shows the increase principal broking and other related services in futures volumes over time.
It demonstrates to a worldwide client base, which ranges organic growth of around 18% per annum from financial institutions, asset managers over the last 12 years.
and industrial groups to professional traders and private clients.
World volume of exchange traded futures and options on futures Man Financial has achieved a record profit millions of contracts before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional GNI integration costs of 70.8 3500 Kevin Davis million, an increase of 47% over the previous 3000 Managing Director, Man Financial year.
This accounted for about 15% of the 2500 Groups total pre-tax profits before goodwill 2000 amortisation and exceptional items.
Of equal 1500 importance it has achieved this growth while 1000 maintaining its profit margins during a period that saw the absorption and rationalisation 500 of a major acquisition.
The strong results were reflected Source: CFTC, BIS in excellent performance across the span Note: excludes options on individual equities and Asian equity indexes.
A leading market position in the products we Pre-tax profit of Man Financial m trade.
The volume of business transacted through Man Financial on a single day has 80 been as high as 4.5 million lots, making us 70 comparable to a major global derivatives 60 exchange.
We now execute, on average, in 50 excess of one million contracts per day and 40 clear over 2.5 million contracts per day.
This 30 tremendous pool of liquidity enables us to 20 both attract new clients and recruit producers 10 who are able to enjoy the benefit of the 0 significant flows of business being transacted March March March March March March through Man Financial.
This in turn gives us 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 significant economies of scale and market Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items information, which further enhances our The factors behind this success are the ability to react, participate and benefit from following.
the changing nature of the derivatives markets.
The table shows Man Financials Tremendous growth in the underlying current rankings on the worlds major futures markets.
The derivatives markets have grown exchanges.
each year for the last 25 years almost without exception.
The increasing sophistication Man Financial exchange rankings of users of the derivatives markets and As at March 2004 broadening of the customer base has been Man Financial Share of a primary influence.
The culture of risk Exchange Location Measure volume Ranking management in institutions and corporations Eurex Europe Execution 13% 1st has continued to grow, driven by regulatory Euronext Europe Execution 18% 1st developments.
Balance sheet risks are CME US Cleared 9% 1st increasingly hedged off and there has been CBOT USExecution 4% 6th an increasing appreciation of the value of the NYMEX US Cleared 12% 1st credit intermediation of the clearing houses IPE UK Cleared 18% 1st versus bilateral credit risk.
Another major LME UK Cleared 8% 2nd driver of market volumes is the continuing SFE Australia Cleared 7% 6th growth of the asset management industry SGX Asia Cleared 9% 2nd and its expanding use of the listed derivatives Source: Exchange publications estimated no official rankings published markets.
The demand by investors for price excludes single stock options transparency by hedge funds has been met by the exchanges daily settlement structure.
In addition fund managers increasingly view derivatives as an efficient source of leverage with low transaction costs.
The ongoing decline in these transaction costs is also Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 16 Operating Review Revenue Diversity.
Revenues flow from four contracts at the CBOT are now over 90% Revenue by business line March 2004 sources: execution fees, clearing fees, matched screen traded while the CMEs large 1 Interest rate products: 31% principal spreads and interest income.
Our Eurodollar futures contract has rapidly moved 2 Equities: 13% focus has been on the high margin and higher in recent months to over 20% screen traded.
3 Forex: 13% 4 Energy Metals Agriculture: 15% growth execution and matched principal As this evolution continues, Mans experience 5 Hedge Funds CTAs: 7% functions to complement our extensive clearing in Europe is helping to strengthen its position 6 Private Clients: 17% business, whose significant client balances, in the US markets as evidenced by our recent 7 Progressional Traders: 4% 7 currently in excess of $7 billion, will benefit us increase in market position at the CBOT from as interest rates rise.
tenth to sixth in a matter of months.
6 1 Revenues by type US$m The convergence of the cash and futures markets has been the other transformational Interest change in the worlds derivatives markets in 5 Matched Principal Execution only virtually all market sectors.
This has provided Clearing an enormous opportunity for Man Financial and is increasingly a major focus of its efforts 700 2 4 to provide value to its clients.
The cash 600 markets in interest rates, equities, energy and 3 500 metals were until recently closed communities 400 of large institutions with less well developed 300 Managing Market Change is a core trading protocols and clearing structures 200 competence of Man Financial whether that where they existed.
Today cash bonds are change be the evolution of the markets to traded electronically and cleared through 100 electronic media or the convergence of the large clearing houses making them 0 cash and derivative markets.
The conversion accessible to a larger range of participants.
FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 of the futures markets from floor-based This allows asset managers to take advantage Source: Man database exchanges to electronic markets has of the changes in relative value between the diminished the role of the passive broker futures and cash markets, which momentarily Focus on overheads.
Man Financial has been while providing enormous opportunity to lag each other in value.
This is equally true in able to achieve its growth while successfully those with a fundamental understanding of the equity and foreign exchange markets and integrating its acquisitions in a timely fashion.
Man has been able to the energy and metals markets.
Man Financials This has resulted in a significant drop in its ratio expand its position significantly as the unique position at the centre of liquidity in the of fixed costs to net revenues.
The continued markets have moved on screen.
futures markets has put us at the nexus of migration to electronic markets with their straight this development and has allowed it to bridge through processing provides continuing As the world futures markets moved on these markets for our clients.
We have opportunity for cost rationalisation.
screen, first in Europe and subsequently in significantly strengthened our cash market the rest of the world, market liquidity in the capabilities in all of these market sectors Product Diversity.
Man Financial has established most actively traded front months of the large which is having a positive impact on our a leading presence in the institutional brokerage interest rate markets were increasingly selfprofit margins and return on capital.
of Interest Rate Products, Foreign Exchange, executed by clients.
At the same time, the Energy, Metals, and Equity Derivatives, while large volumes in the less liquid deferred In the financial year all business areas also having a strong position in providing months and options saw the liquidity on the performed well.
Man Financial achieved execution and clearing services to the professional screen dissipate as institutional traders were outstanding returns from our Interest Rate trader and private client market.
We enjoy reluctant to put firm bids and offers on the Products business, enjoying active markets, strong positions in both the traditional phone screen.
Spreads widened, increasing the growth in the client base, successful recruitment serviced market as well as the growing value of the broker who could effectively of producers and the successful inception of e-commerce sector of these markets.
access other traders with opposite interest cash bond business in London, New York and to provide liquidity to the institutional trader.
These offices plus the strong franchises in The diversity of customers and products Man Financial recognised this process and Chicago, Singapore and Sydney have achieved means that Man Financial is not impacted became a leader in accessing market interest leading positions in their markets.
significantly by a downturn in a specific market.
within the applicable exchange regulations The chart below shows the percentage make on behalf of large institutions and asset Our Foreign Exchange business had a up of net revenues by business line.
The growth of this business record year.
The successful integration of attracted more clients and brokers to our GNIs FX business into Mans complementary growing position at the centre of market institutional business expanded our client liquidity in many of these products and base and service capabilities, as markets continues to feed on itself as Mans client base became increasingly active.
The units in grows further expanding its sources of liquidity.
New York, London and our Asian offices bridge the cash and derivative markets for The European financial futures markets at clients looking for seamless market access.
Eurex and Euronext are now exclusively screen-traded while the Chicago exchanges Our institutional equities business was also have just passed the 50% mark in screen significantly strengthened with the acquisition trading.
This is largely because on the of GNI and its leading position in equity Chicago exchanges, agricultural markets are derivatives, including the contract for still floor-based as are effectively all options differences CFD product which is actively markets.
The leading interest rate futures used by the fund management community.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 17 Operating Review This business is being expanded to provide Private Client business at Man also enjoyed execution services in individual shares for a record year, particularly in Europe.
The institutions looking to access market liquidity integration of GNIs retail CFD business and in the changing market-place.
the roll out of the GNI Touch electronic platform underpinned a significant expansion Our Energy business enjoyed another strong in clients, volumes and profits.
The pending year as it continued to lead its markets.
The rollout of the online FX product is expected energy industry is also seeing a convergence to further this growth.
Our offering in these in its cash and futures markets as the markets includes both an execution and exchanges now provide a clearing mechanism clearing service in electronic or full service for selected OTC products.
GNI Touchs e-commerce business for us with the opportunity to expand our traditional the professional trader community also had focus from industry to the asset managers a record year as market volumes soared with growing success.
Significant recruitments in both interest rate products and the in both London and New York have given increasingly popular equity index products.
added strength and breadth to our team as we increasingly bridge the cash and futures We enter the new financial year confident markets for our clients.
The business has about the opportunities ahead for our been repositioned from a clearing driven brokerage business.
Revenues are diversified, business to an execution driven business overheads controlled and market share while maintaining a strong share of the strong all in a rapidly expanding marketenergy clearing industry.
Our Metals business has continually expanded its client base, market share and profits in recent years during subdued market conditions.
It achieved a strong position in its market with an 8% share.
This year our efforts have been amply rewarded as the growing economic Stanley Fink recovery generated significantly higher prices, Chief Executive volatility and volumes.
As a result profits have grown 59% over the prior year with strong prospects for active market conditions for some time.
Fund Clearing Services saw significant growth in profits as the division expanded its client base.
This area also provides clearing services to our affiliate Man Investments for their activities in these markets.
The asset management community is a primary focus for our clearing services.
The Groups ability to identify, assess, monitor and manage each type of risk to which it is exposed is an important factor in its financial soundness, performance, reputation and future success.
