Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Operating review Group overview UK and Republic of Ireland 6 Carpetright is now the market leader for floor coverings in the UK and the Objectives Benelux.
The business has proved over the 16 years since it was founded For the UK and Republic of Ireland we have reviewed our key objectives that it can consistently grow market share, sales and profits.
Following the and will now look to achieve the following over the next three to five years: acquisition of the business in the Benelux and its subsequent progress the Group believes it has taken the first step towards creating a platform for Carpetright Stores grow to 450 stores across the UK, including growth in mainland Europe similar to that achieved in the UK.
The Group the new small store concept for smaller towns.
Continue to improve lays out its plans for the medium term below.
These build on the core the portfolio mix and relocate from A1 to bulky goods parks strengths and success of the existing operations.
Keep the business operations simple and centred around the stores In House Carpets build on the current 38 concessions within Allders to create an over 100 strong concessions operation within department Focus on floor coverings stores across the UK.
Provide the best range, best prices and the best service for New channels develop our Carpetright at Home business the customer and Insurance business towards 10% of total UK turnover.
Provide an inclusive offer which appeals to all segments of the market Product maintain our leadership position in carpets and grow our Achieve leading market positions and grow market share share and position in other floor coverings, to create similar number one positions.
Expand into mainland Europe where the potential is significant Service constantly invest in our service levels to improve into the best The Group will drive its operations and strategy from these key in the market and make this a source of competitive advantage.
statements in the medium term and will look to build the infrastructure and support operations to ensure they can be executed effectively.
People continue to train, develop and reward our staff so that all may share in our success.
Infrastructure continue to invest in our infrastructure to simplify our processes, and improve efficiency in order to better support our stores and customers.
Results overview The combination of continued market share growth, gross margin gains and rigorous review of variable costs has resulted in another strong year of profit growth for the UK and Republic of Ireland business.
These factors have enabled the underlying operating profit pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation for the business to grow to 64.8 million, an increase of 14.1% compared to the comparable 52 weeks last year, which have been adjusted down by 0.6 million to reflect the impact of FRS5 Application Note G. This growth was achieved despite the floor coverings market as a whole being down over the year.
Furthermore, initiatives taken during the year position the business well to grow share, sales and profits into the future.
Market The UK retail floor coverings market saw a decline in value during the course of the year.
At the same time the supply to the market remains in surplus and the industry saw a number of large manufacturers consolidate over the year.
We continue to work closely with a small number of selected manufacturers who can meet the demand from the customers we serve.
These relationships remain critical to our business and enable us to provide the latest ranges at the best prices.
As we predicted last year there has continued to be a trend towards smooth floor coverings vinyl, laminate and wood although the pace of change away from carpet has slowed considerably.
Our investment in both the laminate offer and expansion of vinyl has proven well timed to capitalise on this change and our market share in both categories has grown considerably.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Stores and selling channels Whilst laminate and vinyl have been a growing part of the flooring market, 7 We continue to expand our store portfolio and ended the year with an carpet still makes up the majority of the UKs flooring sales.
Our sales of additional 13 Carpetright stores giving a total of 364 stores trading from carpet have continued to improve during the year with the roll stock some 3,488,000 sq.
This net gain of 13 stores was a result of 38 showing consistent performance throughout, once again illustrating the openings and 25 closures as we continue to improve both the quality of importance of this offering, where the average room cost remains at under our locations as well as gradually rebalance our portfolio from A1 parks to 95.
The cut length product range had a more difficult start to the year bulky goods parks as opportunities become available.
but came back strongly in the second half when the business managed Many of the new openings were in our new small store format to grow sales and market share following the introduction of new ranges, in smaller towns.
These stores enable us to trade in areas dominated improved offers and better point of sale as well as the updating of our by the independents and where up to now Carpetright has been own brands.
Having successfully developed the smaller store Service concept we are now searching for up to 80-100 additional sites over the During the year we have continued to invest in service through providing next three to five years.
We believe this will enable us to gain market share better product information, improved labelling and more training for our in towns and areas where we have previously not been represented and store teams.
This has led to further improvements in both our qualitative will give us an excellent platform for further growth in the UK.
Our programme to assess and train Including this expansion programme we have revised our store floor covering fitters, run in association with the Flooring Industry Training targets to 450.
We expect to add a net 10 stores to our estate this year Association FITA, has progressed well over the year.
At the year-end weighted towards the second half.
The business generated 3.1 million we had assessed over 700 fitters, with over 60% of our regions of property profits in the year as a result of the active management of the completed.
We will complete the programme towards the end of the portfolio and we expect to continue to make property profits from similar current financial year and we are already seeing the benefits of improved activity in the future.
During the months of December to March we completed the roll-out of flooring departments to 38 Allders stores, five more than indicated at People in our stores our interim results.
These flooring departments average 1,600 sq.
ft. and We continue to invest in the most important part of our operation: our sell a wide range of carpet, laminate and vinyl to Allders customers, people in the stores.
These members of the team are the difference providing both excellent value and a strong focus on service as a critical between the success and failure of our business as they provide the key part of the offer.
The rollout has enabled us to reach a market sector not interaction with the customer.
During the year we have introduced further currently served by the Group whilst bringing benefits for the Groups training and new management development programmes as well as buying scale and investment in centralised cutting and infrastructure.
This year our staff manifesto paid particular focus to the key incentives and rewards for all our people and With the concessions up and trading we have decided to now rebrand them in order to create a specialist department store brand, this, together with our annual conference, best enables us to which can be rolled out to other locations and department stores.
communicate our results, our objectives and the rewards for success This brand is called In House Carpets and provides a distinctive look, in our business.
point of sale and marketing platform for the department store concessions We also constantly work on ways to improve the in store processes environment.
The rebranding of the existing 38 departments within the and our major initiative this year has been the roll out of fork lift trucks to Allders stores was completed during June.
some 70 stores to improve the efficiency of our operation and remove Our Carpetright at home business has continued to show good sales some of the physical work from running the store.
These have already and profit growth during the year.
The van fleet has been expanded to 40 proven a great success and will be rolled out across further stores this and we can now provide coverage for all areas of the country.
year in line with a detailed training and implementation plan.
We want our The Insurance business also continues to grow market share, sales and stores to be busy, vibrant and fun places to work.
We are committed to profits.
We now have a well-established, professional operation serving providing the right tools, training and reward to our people so that we can many of the countrys leading insurance groups.
As the year closed we all contribute to and share in the success of the business.
agreed two further contracts which will start later in this financial year.
Central support office Product The central support office continues to develop in line with the operational The rollout of the laminate offer was completed at the end of the first half demands of the business.
Our centralised cutting operations continue and has provided a significant contribution to the improved second half to improve efficiency and productivity helping us drive down costs.
Sales of laminate during the second half were more The additional volume from both the extra Carpetright stores and the than double the previous year as the appeal of our wide range, good In House Carpets operation has been taken up within the current prices and excellent service provided a compelling offer to the customer.
infrastructure and, from the improvements made, there remains sufficient The offer and range will continue to be further refined in the next six capacity to cope with further significant growth within the business.
months as we implement the lessons learned from the period of trading post rollout.
Our vinyl sales have also grown strongly due to the impact of the improved ranges of takeaway roll stock, better in store display and the success of our wood-effect vinyl flooring.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Operating review We have continued to invest in people at the centre to support the Benelux 8 development of a larger Group and maximise the synergies across our Background and objectives trading formats.
At Executive Director level we have realigned As we set out last year when we acquired the business in the Benelux, responsibilities.
John Kitching has taken direct responsibility for the we want to create a leading floor covering specialist based on similar Benelux operations and he is building a management team along similar principles to the UK business to deliver excellent returns over a three to lines to that in the UK.
We have brought the buying and marketing five year period.
We see this very much as an opportunity to trial and test functions together under Martin Harris in the newly created role of our proposition and ideas in new markets in a low risk way but where the Commercial Director, which will help better plan and co-ordinate activity upside potential is significant.
across the critical trading arena.
Additionally we have recruited specialists The focus of the first six months of our ownership last year was on in logistics and supply chain management to help us take advantage of rationalisation and reorganisation as we sought to take quickly the big the significant opportunities still available within the business.
decisions required to clarify both the proposition to the customer and the Carpet Express back up organisation.
The second stage in this financial year has focused As previously announced, on 11 March 2004 Carpetright entered into on three key areas: an arrangement with Associated Weavers International AWI to purchase Customer learn more about the market, refine the offer, and look to from the receiver the assets and operations of Carpet Express Limited.
build a trading proposition, of widest range, best prices and excellent Carpet Express operates a nationwide carpet distribution service and service to grow market share, sales and profit.
counts both Carpetright and AWI amongst its many customers.
The business made an underlying operating loss pre exceptional costs Support services bring our Group sourcing advantage to the buying and goodwill amortisation of 0.6 million in the 7.5 week trading period process to improve the margin whilst reducing costs through the from 11 March to 1 May 2004.
The 0.6 million loss has been simplification of the business processes.
consolidated into the Groups financial results and has been included Planning evaluation of the key elements of the market, stores, within the UK and Republic of Ireland geographical sector.
The AWI share products and service to produce a clear defined plan for the longer of the loss based on its 33% shareholding is 0.2 million.
term development of the business.
Since acquisition the focus has been to stabilise the operations, improve the systems, reduce losses and ensure that the business is As we move to the third stage in the business growth we have now operating effectively.
This has now been largely completed and we have set some clear objectives for the further development of our Benelux commenced a review of the longer term requirements and infrastructure.
business over the next three years.
We expect this review to be completed by the end of the first half of the current financial year.
Increase our stores coverage to over 100 across Belgium and Holland in total: Complete the store modernisation programme to deliver the latest format to all of our stores: Continue to sublet excess trading space and improve processes to reduce costs: Capitalise on the lessons learned over the last 18 months to further refine the proposition, product and promotional offer in order to gain market share: Invest in service on the same lines as the UK to improve our offer to the customer and make this a source of competitive advantage: Use our Benelux business as a platform to move further into mainland Europe.
Results overview The combination of growth in same store sales over the comparable period, as well as improved margin and reduced costs has meant the Benelux business has produced its first full year underlying operating profit pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation of 1.8 million.
This compares to a loss last year of 2.9 million and has been delivered against a backdrop of a weak market for floor coverings and economic uncertainty.
The progress made during the year and the lessons learnt as the trading year developed should position the business well to move towards its medium term objectives.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Stores and operations Financial summary 9 We closed the year with 88 stores trading, having closed three stores The business remains in a good financial position with strong operating during the year and opened one.
The business was trading from cash flows in both the UK and Republic of Ireland business and the 60 stores in Holland and 28 stores in Belgium at the year-end with a Benelux.
The Group intends to maintain its dividend policy of about combined trading space of 1,158,000 sq.
ft. During the year we 1.5 times earnings in future years and any excess cash that the Group completed our evaluation of all the stores and market opportunities in both generates will be invested to purchase freehold properties, further countries and are now working to a target of over 100 stores to achieve expand our store portfolio or buy back shares as long as our financial our full potential and market coverage.
We completed our first new store criteria are satisfied.
opening at Venlo, Holland, during March and the second new store at Calendar and investor update Deventer, Holland, opened just after the year-end.
Last year we introduced additional trading updates to the market and We have continued to sublet excess trading space to complementary our shareholders to bring the Group into line with best practice for a retail retailers during the year.
We had completed five such sublets by the yearbusiness of our size.
This will now continue on an ongoing basis and end and a further three were completed in May and June.
Whilst this does the details of the trading updates calendar can be found on the inside cause some business disruption in the short term, we believe the benefit back cover.
The first update on trading for the 2005 financial year will be of additional footfall, better store economics, as well as rental income, made on 10 August 2004, the day of the Annual General Meeting.
should improve the profitability of these previously over-spaced stores.
The store modernisation programme has also restarted following a Summary and prospects period of review whilst we assessed the performance of the first phase The Group has had a good year with strong profit growth in the UK and modernisations and learnt more about the customers and the market.
Republic of Ireland business as well as a first profit from the business in The stores in Belgium have now all been rebranded and modernised the Benelux, despite what have been difficult trading conditions for both of except where a sublet opportunity remains.
The remaining stores in Holland our businesses.
We remain confident that the proposition of widest range, will be completed by the autumn in time for the peak trading period.
best prices and excellent service will enable us to continue to grow market Whilst we are still only 18 months into our first acquisition on share.
This along with the continued drive to grow margin and maintain mainland Europe we believe we have established the foundations of a tight costs as well as a number of new growth opportunities should good long-term business.
Our objective remains to create a focused, enable us to grow profits into the future.
market-leading, floor covering specialist generating good returns over a three to five year period as well as providing a platform for further expansion into mainland Europe in the medium term.
People and infrastructure As with the UK business the greatest assets acquired in the Benelux were the people both at the stores and the central support office.
We continue to develop our Benelux organisation in line with that in the UK and are making similar investments as well as improving controls, technology and processes across the business.
We do, where possible, share resources with the UK operations and look to adopt a best practice approach.
This has enabled us to both reduce costs as well as take advantage of opportunities for synergy across our business.
Group summary Results overview The Group recorded an underlying operating profit pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation after interest of 65.0 million, an increase of 23.4% compared to last year which has been restated to reflect the implementation of FRS5 Application Note G. The growth in profits has been driven by the turnaround of the Benelux business as well as good growth in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Both of our businesses have operated in difficult markets and whilst sales have improved and market share grown there has also been an important contribution from better margins and reduced costs compared to last year.
