Operating review shopping centres Left: Ken Ford, Chief Executive The Mall Below:The Mall Executive team Left to right: Mark Bourgeois Matt Chambers Gaynor Gillespie Isobel Willamson-Jones John Wood The shopping centre market Since then the portfolio has grown from 11 centres to 21 2004 was a record year for investment transactions with a 22nd was acquired in early 2005 after the reference date over 5 billion worth of centres traded.
Average lot size for this report.
Total gross assets are now approximately also increased to circa 75 million with nominal equivalent 2.25 billion, making The Mall one of the largest owners yields hardening in Mall-type centres to 6.25%, on par with and operators of covered retail space in the UK.
The Malls portfolio yield of 6.3%.
The investor base has grown from the two founding It is hard to see a softening of pricing in the short term.
New investors have contributed property, Indeed the weight of money for retail investment in new equity or a mixture of both.
The gearing of the fund particular suggests further yield compression during 2005 has remained on average at 50% and the investment criteria albeit at a lesser rate than the last two years.
continue to focus on: l In-town covered shopping centres with integrated As to rental growth, there is general concern in the market car parking and good public transport links: and about the fundamentals of cooling consumer demand l A minimum size of 150,000 sq ft in a shopping and general retail price deflation pressurising the retailers catchment of more than 100,000 people.
capacity to support increased occupational overheads.
Investors appear to be prepared to take at least a mediumDuring 2004 The Mall expanded by six new centres, investing term view on this.
650 million, circa 12% of total shopping centre standing investment transactions for the year.
Five of these acquisitions Our view is that The Mall is well placed in such a were made off market, testimony to The Malls market market scenario, as outlined in Malls market position credibility.
One centre, Bristol, was acquired for investment on pages 10 to 11. units in the fund: all others were bought with cash.
The Mall Fund The Malls market position In early 2002 Capital & Regional injected its portfolio of The Mall is seeing continuing strong tenant demand across shopping centres into The Mall Fund, a Limited Partnership all format sizes particularly so, however, in the 10,000 sq ft set up with Morley Fund Management.
This is reflected in a low void rate of 2.8% Property Management became the Property and Asset which in itself includes strategic vacations for refiguration Manager, with Morley Fund Management becoming the and reletting.
10 Capital & Regional Mall management The Mall is managed by C&Rs 48-strong dedicated team based in London and Glasgow working with The Mall Fund Manager at Morley.
We operate the Malls directly: no third-party managing agents are retained.
In this way we enjoy direct relationships with both our retailers and shopping customers.
The C&R team includes: l Retail Development Managers, who are responsible for retailer relations, retail mix and space creation strategies.
They work with our over 775 retail partners occupying nearly 2,000 units.
l The Operations Team of retail professionals provide the day to day management link with the At Mall Teams.
l Retail Surveyors supply tenancy, management and valuation services to the business.
l The Mall Facilities Management Team is responsible for statutory compliance and for ensuring that best practice and purchasing scale economies are applied across all Malls.
l A Project Management Team co-ordinates the procurement and delivery of construction services.
The Mall delivers shopping as it should be from great customer service at our l The Marketing Team devises and co-ordinates delivery Ask Me points, to Mall TV.
of marketing and promotional activities at The Malls.
In addition this team is responsible for developing the commercial revenue and brand partner sponsorship The Mall model is intended to be robust in a more programmes and The Mall brand.
It offers: l The Accounts Team collects and accounts for a rent roll of 132 million pa and a total service charge budget l UK-wide geographical diversity currently of 31 million.
l No reliance on any single occupier: top 20 retailers liable for only 32% of rent roll This Mall Central Team operates to support the delivery of l Competitive costs of occupation: average unit rent, individual Mall business plans by the At Mall Teams.
A high 70,000 pa degree of local M-powerment is therefore necessary and l Mass-market tenancy roster this structured programme is delivered by The Malls human l Convenient and accessible local locations resources unit, also a Mall central function.
l Emerging Mall brand loyalty Performance The Mall Fund performance 2004 2003 Property level returns 19.6% 21.7% Fund level returns 26.0% 33.5% IPD benchmark 17.1% 15.2% Performance fee 22.8m 11.1m The Mall Fund has significantly outperformed its IPD shopping centres benchmark on both a geared and ungeared basis.
We believe that this has been driven by the scale of the portfolio, the benefits of branding and most of all by the strong teams which we have actively managing each centre in partnership with retailers.
Capital & Regional 11 Operating review shopping centres At Mall teams On-site management is provided by 278 people based at The Malls.
These At Mall Teams are the front line of the business and are closely aligned with The Mall brand values and operating culture.
A typical At Mall Team includes: l A General Manager: a key individual, normally with a retail management background.
The GM is responsible for the daily running of the individual Mall business and the delivery of the business plan objectives.
l An Operations Manager: effectively the GMs deputy, the Operations Manager is actively involved in business plan delivery and service charge management.
In addition the OM is responsible for statutory compliance issues at their Mall.
l A Marketing Manager: manages the marketing, promotional, advertising and PR activities at their Mall.
l Mall Administrator: provides administrative services to Mall management and monitors financial controls.
The Malls We now have a portfolio of 22 centres across the UK, one of the largest in the sector: Centre Size sq ft The Mall, Aberdeen 200,000 The Mall, Barnsley 170,000 The Mall, Bexleyheath 400,000 The Mall, Birmingham 400,000 The Mall, Blackburn 535,000 The Mall, Bristol 320,000 The Mall, Camberley 360,000 The Mall, Chester 232,000 The Mall, Edgware 199,000 The Mall, Epsom 400,000 The Mall, Falkirk 190,000 The Mall, Gloucester 250,000 The Mall, Ilford 300,000 The Mall, Maidstone 542,000 The Mall, Middlesbrough 430,000 The Mall, Norwich 400,000 The Mall, Preston 270,000 The Mall, Romford 320,000 The Mall, Southampton 200,000 The Mall, Sutton Coldfield 500,000 The Mall, Walthamstow 280,000 The Mall, Wood Green 570,000 Total 7,468,000 acquired in January 2005.
The retailers We regard our retailers as business partners.
We are aware that our success depends on theirs and we will work with them in every way we can to improve their businesses.
The Mall retailer base is unashamedly mass market, appealing to the majority of shoppers focused on value, 12 Capital & Regional convenience and choice.
We also actively seek to accommodate local heritage retailers who have an association with their local communities.
Our scale encourages UK-wide, multi-Mall relationships.
Over 60% of our multiple retailers are represented in two or more of our Malls.
We also operate where possible a flexible leasing policy which enables us to better manage the retail offer within individual Malls.
Open, direct and honest communication lies at the heart of our retailer relationships.
The top five Mall tenants are: % of rental Number income of units Boots the Chemist Limited 2.74 18 Arcadia 2.58 28 Woolworths Plc 2.35 14 Clinton Cards 2.00 19 Alexon International Ltd 1.85 25 The Mall brand The Mall has three brand values Caring: Dynamic: Easy.
They describe a way of behaving whether interacting with business partners or shoppers.
Over the last three years we have put considerable effort into building the consistent experience we believe The Mall represents.
We have made this investment because it is good business.
All our customers and suppliers are discerning.
The Mall has a constant dialogue with its customers bringing them familiarity with If we do not give them what they want they will shop surprise Whats on boards, Mall TV and innovative freshen up toilet areas.
We feel that our commitment to the brand values will help us deliver consistently for the customer.
We can thus encourage customer and supplier loyalty and create success.
Our marketing and promotional campaigns are a sustainable, profitable business.
designed to increase the popularity of The Mall, driving relevant footfall and sales to our retailers.
A brand for community: to our shoppers we aim to make The Mall more than a collection of shops.
The Mall is at the The Mall strives to understand the dynamics of each heart of the community.
A place where shoppers enjoy retailers business and has a flexible approach to leasing and spending time as well as money.
The Mall environment is retail mix.
We appreciate retailer sensitivity to non-rental designed to be welcoming, secure and fun.
Mall branded costs of occupation and through our direct bulk-buying of facilities like car parks, toilets and Ask Me points all utilities and services, we create real cost savings.
contribute to the distinctive Mall shopping experience.
We try to reach beyond the centre through our relationships A brand for people: to our people, The Mall works hard with local authorities, police and local community groups.
to be the employer of choice in all of our areas of Through The Mall Cares we support locally-based operation.
The At Mall Teams include specialists in retail, charities.
If we do all this and provide the right retail offer, property investment and management, finance, human shoppers will reward The Mall with frequent visit loyalty.
We try to create a vibrant internal culture that eliminates barriers and encourages collective A brand for partnership: to our retailers, The Mall aims to be responsibility and creative thinking.
Our M-powerment an inclusive business partner, working together to create People Development Programme encourages all to be all the virtuous cycle of shopping satisfaction and commercial they can be within The Mall.
