Operating review leisure Left: PY Gerbeau, Chief Executive X-Leisure Below:The X-Leisure team Left to right: Alastair Bell Polly Farrell Pierre Hardy Arnaud Palu Robert Warner As the largest leisure landlord in the UK, the X-Leisure Fund and Xscape destinations continue to deliver the leisure destinations of the future, offering branded destinations, where our business partners want to be, where the customers prefer to go and as a result maximising sustainable returns to our investors.
Leisure market overview and trends Increasingly the leisure sector is attracting interest from a wider audience of investors.
This is not surprising when one looks at the initial yield across leisure investments compared to other asset classes.
The leisure sector is looking good value and the weight of money currently in the market is beginning to harden these yields as investor demand seeks out value.
There are also additional unique benefits that the leisure market offers to the investor that the market is now recognising when considering leisure as a property investment.
Unexpired lease lengths in excess of 20 years, good covenants and guaranteed rental uplifts at future reviews guaranteeing future reversionary income stream and the equivalent yields.
The X-Leisure approach At X-Leisure we have always passionately believed in the destination experience business model achieving differentiation and a unique selling proposal.
Thats why as a team we concentrate on the consumer experience, as well as our tenants partners success, and not just bricks and mortar.
In 2004 we have held 205 events across our portfolio supported by 2.5 million marketing leaflets, 18 Capital & Regional significant advertising spend, and provided customer service training to tenants partners.
The last year has seen footfall increases and positive rent review settlements: one can argue whether these positive results are down to marketing initiatives, or increase in consumer spending and operator demand.
Either way it has benefited returns to our investors.
It is evident that todays consumer has become more sophisticated: therefore, product differentiation is paramount.
Differentiation comes from range, price and location but increasingly the total consumer experience is vital.
Consumer experience and success comes from destination leisure, delivering unique, integrated experiences.
No longer can owners within these sectors sit back and collect rent and expect to outperform educated specialist owners.
C&R leisure divisions activities Capital & Regionals leisure team has four major responsibilities: Asset Description X-Leisure Fund A portfolio of 17 urban entertainment complexes Xscape partnerships Xscapes in Milton Keynes and Castleford near Leeds A third is being built in Braehead near Glasgow Snozone Snow slope operating business.
Pays rent to Xscape partnerships Great Northern partnership Large retail and leisure property in central Manchester Top and above: the X-Leisure approach is about creating industry leading leisure X-Leisure Fund destinations with complementary lifestyle retail.
The X-Leisure Fund was formally launched on 15 March 2004 with a gross asset value at inception of 502 million and nine investors with C&R holding 10.77% of the equity.
At the year end the Funds gross asset value 597 million with one additional investor Royal Mail Pension Fund.
The X-Leisure Fund is the largest leisure fund in the UK and the scale of ownership provides the opportunity to carry out cross-portfolio deals allowing expansion and restructuring with our occupiers.
Acquisitions disposals The major acquisition in 2004 was the Brighton Marina retail and leisure destination at 65 million.
There are capital gains to be made from both short-term asset management initiatives as well as longer-term and more ambitious development plans across the scheme.
The scheme also offers branding and destination marketing opportunities and will therefore benefit from X-Leisures specialist marketing Capital & Regional 19 Operating review leisure approach and expertise.
The asset is now a key holding within the fund.
The fund also acquired the 25% holding of the O2 London long leasehold interest from JV partner Burford.
This resulted in a significant capital value gain from the merging of the two interests and the benefits from 100% ownership and initiatives.
Other major activity: the combination of the three funds into one and the extension of the fund life has freed the fund to start a number of significant projects.
For example: l Tower Park, Poole planning permission was received for a 16,000 sq ft four unit extension.
Work has commenced with completion due in Summer 2005. l Star City, Birmingham the turnaround of this regional destination has commenced with the start on site of the construction of a mini snow slope, skate park, air park and climbing walls.
l At Great North, North Finchley, planning was granted and pre-lets were agreed for the reconfiguration of accommodation.
l Successful rent review settlements above estimated rental values were achieved at the O2 Centre, London and Lockmeadow in Maidstone.
Performance: over the nine months since inception, the fund level return was 18%.
Annualised this is an equivalent of 23.3%.
The funds annual hurdle rate of return is 12% and we are pleased to have earned a 1.1 million performance fee.
Top and above: skiers and boarders enjoying snow all year round at Castleford 20 Capital & Regional More than 45 million people visited X-Leisure attractions in 2004, enjoying a wide range of facilities from bowling, cinema and casinos to waterparks and extreme sports.
Xscape Snozone Ltd Xscape Milton Keynes: the property is fully let although Snozone operates the indoor snow slopes at the Xscapes various asset management initiatives have moved the value and has grown at both Xscape Milton Keynes and Xscape forward over the year increasing rental values and rental Castleford, exceeding profit forecasts year on year with an incomes by sub-divisions reconfigurations.
Xscape Milton excellent expansion strategy.
Year-on-year growth has been Keynes remains the flagship entertainment leisure seen in both destinations and, as awareness of the all year destination within the UK and welcomed 6.1 million round ability to ski within the destinations increases, the visitors in 2004. seasonal factor of the business, particularly in Milton Keynes, is becoming less acute.
Xscape Castleford, Leeds: 2004 saw its first full year of operation.
Over the year 550,000 of new rental income Great Northern Warehouse, Manchester was exchanged.
At the year end the property was 90% let This refurbished former railway warehouse is 50% owned by floor area.
The scheme is now trading successfully and in a JV company, Morrison Merlin Ltd, with Anglia Water year-on-year growth being experienced.
In 2004 an agreement for lease was exchanged with area has seen substantial development with the opening London Clubs International for a 40,000 sq ft casino.
Final of a 100,000 sq ft B&Q, reconfiguration expansion licensing and planning approvals are expected in the first commencing on the adjoining factory outlet and the half of 2005 enabling the casino to open in early 2006. completion of a 120-bedroom hotel.
Xscape Braehead: Laing ORourkes started construction on site in June 2004 and the 310,000 sq ft building is currently on target to open in Spring 2006.
A tremendous level of tenant interest has been experienced with 70% by floor area already pre-let.
This Xscape is being developed in a joint venture with the owners of the very successful Braehead Shopping Centre on the adjoining site.
It will offer additional attractions ensuring that the Xscape brand continues to be innovative and exciting.
