Operating Review Media geographic spread and skills.
This In 2004, Aegis Medias combined underpins the Groups strategy of investing operations increased turnover by 5.5% in key areas of its business to maximise 9.6% in constant currency and increased future growth.
revenues by 10.4% 13.9% in constant currency from 429.9 million in 2003 to Outdoor and Sports Marketing are key 474.6 million in 2004.
Organic revenue areas of investment and the Group is growth was 8.5% in constant currency.
focussed on developing them into Compared with last year, turnover in significant international networks in other Europe increased by 7.5% 8.8% at specialist market areas.
The Group has constant currency and Asia-Pacific rose been steadily building Posterscope as its 16.5% 22.0% at constant currency.
Sports marketing Impacted by the weak US dollar, reported has become a key communication medium turnover in the Americas decreased slightly and a vital part of the communications by 1.6% but was up 9.4% at constant planning mix.
In November, Aegis acquired currency.
Aegis Medias net new business Velocity, a leading US sports marketing billings for the year were $1,842 million agency, that will complement its existing 2003: $728 million.
European and Asian sport marketing operations.
The opportunities presented by digital delivery of media mean that there will be CARAT many more ways for marketers to connect Carat is at the centre of our media with consumers.
The expansion of media activities and is Aegis Medias major brand.
choice is resulting in further fragmentation During the year Carat continued to grow of the media market and this added the scale and diversity of its global complexity is leading marketers to operations.
In particular it developed fundamentally review how they promote its capability in return on marketing their brands.
The development of investment analytics and tool development communications planning, a media-neutral and made significant progress in process that looks at all the possible developing its communication planning routes to connect brands with consumers, philosophy and methodology.
greatly enhances the media agencys role.
Carat Europe Consequently Aegis has been building the Market conditions continued to improve in non-traditional parts of its media business most European countries in the second half high growth areas such as digital, of the year and Carat Europe sustained its interactive, outdoor and sports marketing long unbroken record of market share which provide good opportunities for gains.
There was a strong pitch pipeline revenue growth and margin enhancement.
and this resulted in a good run rate of local wins in the various individual In July, the Group announced the countries.
establishment of Isobar as the Groups digital one-to-one network, aligning and Towards the end of 2004, Carat France integrating all its digital assets under a experienced a number of client defections single umbrella brand.
Since the launch to a company set up by former Carat the business has been the focus of further executives.
However, the actions we have investment with a number of acquisitions taken seem to have stabilised the business made to develop the network in terms of and Carat France is once again winning 12 Carat Europe sustained its long unbroken record of market share gains in 2004.
The year ended with a strong pitch pipeline and a good run rate of local wins in various countries.
new clients and further progress is expected in 2005.
Looking at the other major European countries it is clear that Carats reputation and leading market presence has helped it to gain ground.
A new management structure in the UK has revitalised the business and wins included WH Smith, npower, Alliance & Leicester and Danone.
In Italy, Carat had a strong year with new business from mobile telecoms company Wind, Lottomatica and dairy products firm Muller.
In Germany, Carats most significant win was Electronic Arts and it also retained the Deutsche Post business.
Finally, in Spain there was a strong growth in the market and Carat enjoyed an excellent share of it.
In the Nordic region the management team was strengthened and Carat continued to retain its high market share.
Meanwhile in Central and Eastern Europe the agency experienced significant growth.
Carat Americas It was a watershed year for both the industry and for Carat, which was demonstrated by its win of Procter and Gambles communications planning business.
Organic growth was also excellent and the agency continued to expand its work with major brands such as Adidas, Hyundai, Philips and Pfizer among others.
Its strategic communications planning approach has placed Carat Americas as a thought leader in the industry, which has been widely commented upon in the trade press and elsewhere.
Media Magazine awarded it the title of The Agency Most Media Professionals Would Like to Work For.
This is especially important in the media business, which is more than ever a Jerry Buhlmann, CEO Aegis Media Europe talent driven one.
13 David Verklin, CEO Aegis Media Americas 14 Carat Americas had a watershed year demonstrated by its win of P&Gs communication planning business and being voted The Agency Most Media Professionals Would Like To Work For.
In the year the agency launched Carat has provided us with a unique platform for Brand Experience, Carat Sponsorship helping clients promote their brands in Solutions and the strategic purchase of China.
It has also been an extremely Velocity in the sport and entertainment profitable venture as the business was marketing space continued to show that successfully floated on the Hong Kong Carat is a diversified marketing services Stock Exchange at a level that represented company with media at its core.
Elsewhere a significant gain in value over the Groups in the Americas, Carat Canada had an initial investment.
Winning 13 out of 14 pitches including the hotly The RECMA media rating agency again contested Government of Quebec account.
gave Carat second place in its Vitality award, an index of new business wins and In Latin America, Carat Argentina returned losses, staff growth and the dynamism of to profit for the first time since the the organisation.
In addition we were countrys economic downturn in 2001 voted Agency of the Year in Taiwan.
In Mexico, Carat continued to develop its business model, increasing VIZEUM visibility and participating in most of Vizeum, our challenger brand network the major pitches.
Carat Sport was also begun from a standing start in June 2003, launched in Mexico in 2004, providing had an outstandingly successful year.
The sports and sponsorship consultancy best index of this is its success in winning services.
Despite being the smallest of the 12 major European agencies it was Carat Asia-Pacific the second most successful at wining new Carat Asia-Pacific had an excellent year mandates.
During the year Vizeum acquired fuelled by the dynamic growth in media 158 new clients with total new billings of generally throughout the region.
This included 10 major international clients among which In addition to outstanding organic growth, were Panasonic, Heinz and Kia Motors.
new business activity was strong in most Among its local wins were AOL, IKEA, DHL, Asian countries.
Key new business wins BMW and Coca Cola.
included Adams, Beiersdorf, Danone, BDF, Japan Postal, KFC, KFS, LOreal, Pantaloon, Retravision and Warner Bros. Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Australia provided the bulk of new business successes with a considerable number of wins from both local brands and international marketers.
According to a study mapping the global future, China and India will emerge as the new economic stars of the 21st century.
China is now leading the world with an estimated adspend growth of 30%.
Carats investment in Asia-Pacific has made it a major force in the region and it is constantly looking for new and innovative ways to support clients in this rapidly expanding market.
In particular, our venture with Qin Jia Yuan in the field of TV Eric Drancourt, CEO Vizeum programme sponsorship and production 15 Isobar was launched in July 2004 supporting our strategy of building the first genuinely global, full service, digital marketing network.
The business has done exceptionally well and is growing well ahead of the fast-growing digital services market.
Operating Review During the year the business completed its digital media grow.
It is an important product offering, providing a fresh approach feature of Isobar that it aims to encourage to media planning based upon consumer and nurture talent to keep pace with the motivation.
In this regard the close, speed of growth in these markets while continuing collaboration with Censydiam, spreading best practice across the network the Groups specialist consumer motivation for the benefit of our clients wherever in research consultancy, has contributed the world they may be.
We expect to significantly to Vizeums philosophy and extend our coverage and deepen our unique proposition.
Moreover, this year service capability through 2005.
Vizeum undertook the largest ever Europewide study of consumer motivation POSTERSCOPE covering 2,500 brands.
The results of this In 2004 Posterscope cemented its position should be available in early 2005. as the worlds largest out-of-home media planning and buying specialist.
It now has Vizeum continues to buy and build its 31 offices in 14 countries.
New operations were background of increasing fragmentation of established in the Republic of Ireland, media, especially new digital channels and Denmark, China and Taiwan during 2004. mobile devices, out-of-home has increased its In summary the network now comprises appeal to clients because it provides greater 35 offices in 29 countries and expects to certainty of impacting target audiences.
achieve further roll out in the USA and in the remaining major Asia Pacific markets The business has supported both Group during the next 24 months.
and external clients and showed good revenue and profit growth.
2004 has been ISOBAR another year of increased geographical The launch in July 2004 of Isobar coverage for Posterscope with offices Integrated Solutions One-to-One Brand opening in China, India and Singapore and Response was a key event in our and expansion of its Asian network strategy to build the first genuinely global, planned for 2005. full service, digital marketing network.
The Group has resolutely pursued investment The trend towards concentration of site in interactive marketing services over the ownership into the hands of a handful last six years and continued to support the of major players is tending to force business throughout the downturn.
The investment into new sites.
This is launch of Isobar and its subsequent excellent reinforced by the demand of major performance has vindicated that approach.
advertisers requiring more accountability, which is more difficult to achieve in the By the end of 2004, Isobars network fragmented digital and broadcast media.
comprised 51 offices in 27 markets as These trends are driving growth in the Aegis continued to build its investment in sector.
Moreover the rapid development of this area both in geographic spread and outdoor digital sites, with large screens capabilities.
For example a significant appearing in key public places is another acquisition was that of iProspect, which we driver for growth.
Posterscope is completed in December and which brought pioneering this use of the medium and us the leading search engine marketing during the year launched a spectacular firm in the US.
We also expanded our landmark site for Coca-Cola in New Yorks territorial coverage into China, South Times Square using digital technology.
Therefore the Group envisages sustained We continue develop specialist skills and growth both in the out-of-home market and geographical spread as the markets for in Posterscopes performance going forward.
16 Nigel Morris, CEO Isobar 17 18 Adrian Chedore, CEO Synovate Synovate achieved excellent growth in 2004, the key drivers of which are its globally integrated capabilities and its suite of market-leading research solutions.
Operating Review Market Research Synovate Asia Pacific in the market.
This US centre of excellence Synovate achieved good growth in both Synovate achieved good growth in this has spawned a nascent international revenue and operating margin in 2004.
The region during the year as clients placed online panels business with a brief to business traded very well and ended the more and more emphasis on the continue its expansion worldwide and year with revenue up 24.4% 35.5% at Chinese market.
review best practice in online surveys.
constant currency to 272.4 million from 218.9 million in 2003.
Organic growth was As one of the largest and most fully Synovates diversity practice has made a 8.3%, ahead of the market growth rate integrated global market research firms particular specialism of minority sub-group which is estimated as 4.25%.
At the 2004 operating in the region, we were able to panels, particularly among the Hispanic year-end, Synovate enjoyed a strong order take advantage of the rapid market growth and Asian communities and we are now book, significantly ahead of 2003. in our traditional territories of Greater one of the most significant players in China and South Asia.
Its public sector group in The key drivers for this growth has been that we are the leader in custom research Washington D. C. also grew in terms of its globally integrated capabilities and its in these areas.
In addition, our presence in both revenue and profit.
suite of market-leading research solutions.
Japan enabled us to dramatically increase This amounts to a compelling proposition our business there against the background Elsewhere in the Americas there has been for major corporations requiring market of a flat market.
Synovate Brazil, for research support throughout their own example, has seen a strong expansion in international operations.
We now look to a strong 2005 with plans servicing global clients with whom the to grow our business substantially in network has relationships in the US.
In In geographical terms the following are the the Asia Pacific region in order to meet the fourth quarter Synovate also began highlights in Synovates principal regions demand we are experiencing from the to see the integration benefits from the of activity.
Symmetrics acquisition with three major cross-selling wins, two in the US and one Synovate Europe, Middle East and Africa Synovate Americas in Canada.
Synovates operations in Europe, the Taking out the impact of a weak US dollar, Middle East and Africa traded very strongly Synovates operations in the US and Latin and the region saw excellent revenue America saw a good underlying growth growth helped in part by acquisitions.
This growth was business saw excellent growth in Central achieved despite the disruption caused and Eastern Europe in particular where by the relocation of Synovates US head sales were strong across the board as office to Chicago.
With the move complete, multinationals seek to establish footholds the business ended the year with more in these emerging economies.
substantial orders on hand compared with the same period last year.
In June, the acquisition of Proactive Insight, a leading South African full service During the year the business saw margin research business, provided Synovate with improvement through operating efficiencies a significant footprint in South Africa.
In particular, Proactive Insight is ranked amongst outsourcing has produced significant cost the top three largest market research savings and the Group expects to see companies in South Africa and has additional benefit in 2005. particularly good expertise in the automotive, financial and IT sectors.
Synovate Americas consumer Internet Proactive Insight has an excellent panels business has grown as a result of management team, skill base and client continued investment.
It now has a one portfolio that complements Synovates million household panel, which is also Robert Philpott, CEO Synovate Americas international network.
considered amongst the most responsive 19 Synovate Healthcare took its position in the top tier of the sectors healthcare research providers in 2004.
Synovate now competes and wins against some of the healthcare research markets largest players.
Operating Review The acquisition of UK research business able to offer a full range of research to the network can now bring clients.
In TRBI, in January 2004, strengthened pharmaceutical company clients covering consumer motivation Censydiam is a world Synovates research presence in the UK every step of the process, from proposal, leader, as is Symmetrics, in its field of market.
The acquisition not only delivered research design, execution, analysis and customer loyalty research.
Product Quest a strong portfolio of branded solutions but delivery.
In the data gathering area is a product testing protocol that leads also established Synovate as one of the Fieldwork, which provides support for in its field while Viewscasts interactive UKs largest research companies with an both Group and external clients, has been voice response is at the forefront of its enviable blue-chip client list.
These targeted and advanced skills are becoming highly sought after Sector Expertise To summarise, in 2004 Synovate Healthcare among our clients who recognise them as Synovate is now well recognised as a has achieved revenue, bottom line and having a significant role to play in helping global research provider and is building up margin growth.
It has focussed on them understand and relate to their clients a good reputation in its three main areas developing the areas of its business that and customers in the different territories of specialist knowledge consumer, will provide the most opportunity for in which they operate.
profitable growth and has dispensed with less successful products.
The practice Overall, 2004 has been a year when Consumer Research has moved into the top tier of the sectors Synovate has succeeded in building its Consumer research saw good success with market research providers, a position teamwork across geographies, sectors and a number of significant new international that it did not occupy at the beginning of skills.
The collection of businesses, talents assignments from large FMCG marketers.
and products of which Synovate is made In particular Product Quest, Synovates up are now better coordinated than ever proprietary product testing protocol, Automotive Research before and the benefits are starting to proved to be an effective tool for gaining Automotive research saw good growth in flow.
The matrix structure of the business consistent consumer feedback on product the year as the business concentrated on is now bearing fruit, as for example characteristics from country to country.
Motoresearch is through wider application of the skills and The product won a number of global and a leader in automotive research and has talents resident within the  commissions from well known used the Synovate network to extend its Censydiam Institute, Viewscast, Product brands during the year and in 2005 service to provide key clients with global Quest, Symmetrics and the Healthcare and additional Product Quest solutions will be account teams, global coverage and Motoresearch practices.
make further progress through this process during 2005.
Healthcare Research Links to other skill sets within the A key development was the integration Synovate family of research business has of the ISIS business purchased in 2003. allowed Motoresearch to expand its Together the businesses achieved global product offering.
The major win of a reach and complementary products, syndicated study for the North Auto resources and expertise.
The upshot has Dealers Association of America was based been that Synovate Healthcare is able to on the remit to understand US auto dealer bring clients economies of scale, greater and manufacturer needs with respect to depth of expertise as well as an enhanced improving their customer satisfaction product offering.
The project has been a triumph of linking together Synovates skills and In the syndicated market research space capabilities from across the globe to meet Synovate now has a respected range of the specific needs of one major US client.
therapy monitors including the worlds largest cancer therapy monitor, which In addition to the vertical sector specialisms draws upon data from 63,000 patients that Synovate offers are the rapidly worldwide.
In the custom space it is now advancing horizontal capabilities that 20 Michael Spedding, CEO Synovate Healthcare 21
