London Merchant Securities plc 14 Investment Division: An opportunity to make high returns with managed risk A UK and US portfolio of investments diversified across technology, development and buyout capital.
Energy Cranes International ECI manufactures offshore cranes and provides crane related services to the offshore energy industry.
LMS created ECI through the merger of Sparrows, which has a dominant position in the North Sea market, with American Aero and Titan, two businesses operating in the Gulf of Mexico and both already owned by LMS.
London Merchant Securities plc 15 London Merchant Securities plc 16 A resurgence of the IPO and M&A markets augurs well for an increasing stream of liquidity.
Strakan Strakan is a speciality pharmaceutical company.
It both markets products through its own sales forces across Europe and develops its own compounds which it then takes through to market or outlicences.
Since 1999 LMS Capital has 9.3 million invested in Strakan, which is held at cost.
Strakans anti-angina product, Isotard XL, saw total sales rise by 30% in 2003, with total revenues growing by 45%.
end there were four companies at various of development projects have reached critical Operating Review stages of acquisition merger discussions.
Phase I and Phase II milestones during the year.
Investment Division The Investment Division ended the year 7 Global Limited with a book value of 191.9 million 2003 7 Global is the UKs leading provider of hosting 162.6 million.
The market value at the end infrastructure for software vendors providing of the year was 200.6 million.
During the software as a service.
Performance year some 24.1 million of cash was realised The worlds markets began the 2003 04 LMS Capital has invested 12.9 million in 7 from investment sales and some 46.9 million financial year at low levels with the Dow Jones Global, which is held at 11.9 million.
LMS Capital of cash was invested.
The majority of at 8,069 and the FTSE 100 index at 3,684. first invested in 7 Global in 2000. investment comprised follow-on funding for The year ended substantially higher with a the existing portfolio, which for the most part 7 Global expects an accelerating trend towards recovery starting in the quoted sector then is now fully funded.
the delivery of software as a service as more percolating through to the private equity customers choose rental options which no longer market.
Indicative of this is the improvement UK Portfolio involve the ownership and maintenance of in the IPO market in the first quarter of 2004.
Strakan Group Limited hardware and support resources.
The market The LMS portfolio is risk diversified with a Strakan is a speciality pharmaceutical company is showing increasing signs of moving in this reasonable proportion of its assets in quoted which markets through its own sales forces direction and demand from software vendors stocks and the opportunity has been taken to across Europe.
has significantly picked up in the last two quarters.
release some profits during the period as the LMS Capital has 9.3 million invested in Strakan, 7 Global has also launched a second line of markets moved ahead.
The current improvement which is held at cost.
The first investment was business delivering hosted email, security and in the equity market bodes well for third party made in 1999. back-up services in the last three months.
funding requirements of our unquoted portfolio in the current financial year.
Further we are The company is growing rapidly as a result of Turnover for the year ended 31st March 2004 pleased to report that the underlying trading in excellent organic growth in the UK and from its shows modest growth and the companys gross our investee companies has substantially recent acquisition of OTL.
Revenues grew 45% profit has increased by over 20%.
improved over the last 12 months.
At the year in 2003 over the previous year and are expected to increase by a similar rate in 2004.
A number London Merchant Securities plc 17 LMS Capital Portfolio Analysis and its subsidiaries Inflexion plc Total 000 000 000 Listed investments 27,372 9,234 36,606 Fund investments 38,411 6,403 44,814 Unlisted investments 110,465 110,465 Total 176,248 15,637 191,885 Michael Bennett Shawn Pittman Nick Habgood Entuity Limited LMS Capital has 6.3 million invested in lead service to access quotes from OEM Entuity develops and markets Eye of the Storm, Cityspace, which is held at cost.
an enterprise network management software investment was made in 1995.
LMS Capital has 3.9 million invested in suite.
The product provides real-time visibility In the last year, Cityspace has sold and rolled First Index, which is held at cost.
The first of fault, performance and resource allocation out a record number of units and seen its investment was made in 2000. across an entire network in real-time.
New revenue The company has seen strong growth in its LMS Capital has 5.9 million invested in Entuity, sources are being developed in mobile, Wi-Fi, new services for large OEMs and has increased which is held at cost.
The first investment was transportation and transaction services which its resources in low cost countries to service made in 2000. are expected to make a significant contribution the growing demand for expertise in these over the next three years and to lead to a Entuity has significantly improved its product regions.
Revenues from this source grew by rapid growth in the number of networks and functionality and the strength of its US sales over 50% compared to the previous year.
force over the last year and is putting an Vio Worldwide Limited emphasis on sales and marketing in the US Recognised revenue for the financial year Vio provides software and services that over the coming year.
This is expected to lead ending 30th June 2004 is expected to show facilitate the transportation and management to increased revenues and larger sales per a 100% increase over the previous year, with of large digital files digital workflows within the customer in 2004.
The company has recently invoicing levels a more relevant indicator of advertising, printing, publishing and graphics recorded a record revenue quarter.
performance showing even greater growth.
In addition to providing software Cityspace First Index Group Limited applications on a hosted basis, the Company Cityspace provides digital urban infrastructure First Index provide sourcing services for the provides and manages telecoms connectivity solutions.
Cityspace networks now exist in over global custom manufactured parts industry.
Vio is headquartered in the UK 20 UK cities as well as Brussels, Gothenburg First Index provide products and services with sales and marketing operations in France and Moscow.
They provide street level access which allow major OEM manufacturers to identify, and USA and an R&D operation in Israel.
to modern digital services, provide infrastructure qualify and then to receive quotes from new LMS Capital has 7.3 million invested in Vio, for 2G 3G mobile operators and broadband suppliers, often in low cost countries such as which is held at cost.
The first investment was Wi-Fi coverage in urban environments.
First Index also made in 2002. provides suppliers with a subscription based London Merchant Securities plc 18 The expansion of the development and buyout capital business has been satisfactorily concluded with the Inflexion acquisition: and the technology investments are on plan to mature over the next few years.
Sound investment in state-of-the-art technology, supported by strong intellectual property and experienced management teams remains the way to achieve superior returns.
adoption across the existing customer base record turnover of approximately $130 million and the addition of new customers.
in its first full year and achieve EBITDA of around $10 million.
A new, experienced Chief Executive was brought into the Company in October 2003 ECI is the largest business of its type in the and has successfully repositioned the world and is well-positioned over the next company and built an experienced enterprise three to five years to provide the offshore energy software sales team.
industry globally with outsourced, professionally managed crane services that deliver the health CopperEye and safety and operational performance CopperEye is a provider of high performance, Operating Review required by the industry.
patent protected data indexing technology.
Investment Division The company delivers software for developing ITS extremely high-performance data repositories ITS provides specialist engineering design and needed by applications that handle very high quality fabrication solutions principally to high transaction rates or very large historical the energy industry.
It has particular expertise During the year the Company made excellent data volumes.
in steam generation and gasification, and is progress, growing sales by around 250% and forging strategic partnerships with a number of LMS Capital has 3.5 million invested in establishing a strong presence in the UK and process development companies in the oil and CopperEye, which is held at cost.
The first French markets and making its first inroads gas and alternative energy industries.
investment was made in 2001. into the US market.
Also during the year the LMS has 7.6 million invested in ITS.
Company strengthened the management team During the course of the last financial year the The business is expected to record turnover of with the appointment of a new CFO and in founder managers have been supplemented approximately $20 million in 2004 and achieve May 2004 a new US-based Chief Executive.
with an experienced, US-based Chief Executive.
Wesupply Energy Cranes International ECI ITSs first strategic partnership, a joint venture Wesupply is the provider of a hosted Supply ECI manufactures offshore cranes and provides of which it owns 50%, has substantially Chain Execution Management software solution crane related services to the offshore energy completed the construction of a commercial that allows real-time collaboration between a industry.
LMS created ECI through the merger scale demonstration plant in California for the manufacturer and its suppliers or customers.
of Sparrows, a business it acquired in March recovery of heavy oil deposits through the The solution can be deployed in just 90 days 2003 and which has a dominant position in application of steam in the reservoirs.
Initiatives and pay-back is as little as 180 days.
LMS the North Sea market, with American Aero and such as this open up significant earnings Capital has 8.0 million invested in Wesupply, Titan, two businesses operating in the Gulf of potential for the company.
with a book value of 6.0 million.
The first Mexico and already owned by LMS.
The total capital invested by LMS in the business The company is starting to experience rapid is 18.5 million, with a similar amount of debt growth from a combination of incremental provided by ECIs bankers.
The business should London Merchant Securities plc 19 Inflexion The acquisition of a majority stake in Inflexion plc provides a platform for future activity in the UK private equity market and will strengthen the management of LMSs investment interests.
Inflexion led the 22 million acquisition of Ster Century Cinemas, a multiplex operator in the UK and Ireland.
Scott Potter Brian Bank John Hartz, Inflexion Simon Turner, Inflexion US Portfolio maintaining a cost of construction below that Chief Executives Summary GoBeam Covad of their competitors.
The expansion of the development and buyout GoBeam Inc. delivers high quality, highly capital business has been satisfactorily LMS invested a total of $10 million in Rave in affordable and feature-rich VoIP telephony concluded with the acquisition of 58% of 2002 and currently holds a fully diluted position solutions to small and mid-size businesses.
Inflexion: and the technology investments are of 13.8%.
on a plan to mature over the next few years.
LMS has invested a total of $3.1 million into Rave currently has 13 theatres open, with GoBeam and has a 6.4% interest.
It is held The last financial year saw a satisfactory three new builds under construction and in the books net of provisions at 1.3 million.
performance with rent reviews and renewals.
several new sites being evaluated.
Its 2003 The Group now has four sites in the West In March 2004 it was announced that GoBeam financial year revenues and cash flows were End with planning consent for redevelopment, would be acquired by Covad Communications on plan and the company is forecasting better two of which are pre-let.
Covad is a leading national broadband than 100% growth in its 2004 financial year.
five sites are at different stages of pre-planning: service provider of high-speed Internet and Method Products Inc these provide substantial potential for rental and network access utilising Digital Subscriber Line Based in San Francisco, Method Products Inc, asset growth over the next five to seven years.
It offers DSL, T1, managed is a company established in 2000 with the security, hosting, IP, dial-up services and bundled In a period when it is becoming increasingly goal of evolving the household cleaner from an voice and data services directly through Covads difficult to acquire investment or development object that lives under the sink to a more network and through Internet Service Providers, opportunities in the open market, the Group attractive countertop accessory.
Methods value-added resellers, telecommunications is well positioned with a number of attractive strategy is to use design, fragrance and carriers and affinity groups to small and mediumschemes already in the portfolio.
environmentally friendly ingredients to re-define sized businesses and home users.
Covad will the $5 billion category of household cleaning acquire GoBeam in a transaction valued at products.
In its short operating history, Method $48 million at the time of the deals signing.
has successfully gained distribution in over 6,500 GoBeams stockholders will receive Covad retail locations in the US and Japan.
Major retailers shares in exchange for their GoBeam shares.
include Target, Safeway, Publix, Albertsons, Rave Motion Pictures Ralphs, Linens n Things, and Wegmans.
Rave Motion Pictures Rave builds and operates Robert Rayne, Chief Executive LMS invested $475,000 into Method in late stadium cinema mega-plexes 12-20 screens 8th June 2004 2003 as part of a round of financing led by the in the Southwest, Midwest, and Southeast existing investor group, including Tim Koogle regions of the United States.
Rave targets former chairman and CEO of Yahoo!
and markets with populations between 250,000 Sumitomo Corporation.
and 750,000 people in an effort to create new film zones where no stadium competition Methods 2003 revenue represented better currently exists.
Raves theatres are distinctly than 200% growth over 2002, with similar growth hip and modern, while at the same time forecast for its 2004 financial year.
