Review of Operations Our business is divided into three geographic divisions UK, North America and Continental Europe and the rest of the world and seven distinct market sectors.
Over the following pages is a review of each of the divisions and market sectors that highlights performance and achievements in the past year.
14 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 15 Living our values We build our success on lasting relationships with our clients and customers through teamwork, a can-do attitude and a passion for quality.
14 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 15 Through the dedication and hard work of our people we have achieved record levels of new business, with a particularly strong performance in the leisure sector, whilst the quality of our people is reflected in the external recognition of their achievements.
Don Davenport CEO, UK & Ireland UK Despite a tough trading environment, the UK division achieved like for like turnover growth of 5% up to 2.6 billion.
Our reputation for culinary excellence is highlighted by the many accolades we have received and is reflected in the prestigious events and locations that we operate.
High flyers Coveted Acorn awards given Awards and prizes by Caterer and Hotelkeeper to just 30 of We are rightly proud of the hospitality industrys high flyers under the age of thirty went to Kirsty Groves, the achievements of our human resources manager at All Leisure: Gina Gorvett, Scolarests nutritionist: Nick people and the high levels Gabaldon, sous chef for Baxter and Platts: of skill and innovation that and Andrew Chappell, an operations manager with Eurest.
they demonstrate day in, day out.
Hotelympia At Hotelympia 2004 we Top achievers The Tastte!
sandwich won 172 awards in the salon culinaire and range was named Workplace Sandwich open team grand prix, including 15 best Supplier of the Year at the British Sandwich in class awards and 28 gold medals.
Two Industry Awards in April beating off stiff prestigious Craft Guild of Chefs awards for competition from Marks & Spencer 2004 were won by Jason Clark, executive and Benjys.
development chef for All Leisure and Nick Vadis, executive chef for Eurest at British Talented chefs Jeremy Ford and Stuart Airways.
Smith were named the Compass Group UK & Ireland Senior and Junior Chefs of the year.
16 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 17 Left to right: Trevor Briggs Managing Director, Specialist Markets Don Davenport CEO, Compass Group UK & Ireland David Mortimer Finance Director Peter Aldrich Managing Director, Business & Industry Scotland, Ireland & Corporate Accounts Nigel Dunlop Managing Director, All Leisure Mike Oldfield Managing Director, Business & Industry England & Wales and In-store.
Vertigo Tower 42 is the City of Londons tallest building, home to Rhodes Twenty Four and Vertigo 42, a champagne bar located 600 feet above pavement level.
World Culinary Olympics Competing against over 1,000 chefs from 36 countries, our 28-strong culinary team came back with a record-breaking haul of 53 awards, winning at least one for every class they entered, including gold medals for Omero Gallucci, Diane Cattel and Rod Naylor.
Ace service At Wimbledon an army of Parent pleasers Moto service areas have 1,600 of our people served up 112,000 been voted the best place to stop on Britains punnets of strawberries and 17,000 bottles motorways in the prestigious Tommys of champagne.
The annual awards are voted on by members of the public and are given to businesses and organisations that have gone out of their way to make themselves easily accessible and usable by parents with toddlers.
16 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 17 Left to right: Tom Ondrof C CF FO O & & E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e V Viic ce e P Pr re es siid fide en nt t Commercial Development, North America Gary Green C CE EO O, N No or rt th h A Am me er riic ca a Dennis Hogan Vice President Finance Andy Lansing President & CEO, Levy Restaurants Warren Thompson President & Chairman, Thompson Hospitality T T To o on n ny y y S S Sh h he e ea a ar r re e er r r Chairman, Foodbuy Honours list Each year Americas leading trade publication, Nations Restaurant News, honours outstanding multi-unit foodservice companies with the Golden Chain Award which celebrates the recipients recent accomplishments and long-term achievements.
Gary Green, CEO North America, accepted on behalf of Compass Group, one of the six awards made, in recognition of the outstanding achievements of all our people in North America.
Restaurant Associates operates the Rockefeller Centers famous Ice Rink right in the heart of Manhattan.
Culinary greatness Compass Group chefs Jesse Backstrom of Bon Apptit, Larry Posen of Chartwells Higher Education and Amory James of Thompson Hospitality have all gained the American Culinary Federations Culinary Certification, one of the most prestigious qualifications a chef can obtain.
18 Compass Group PLC Its ten years since we began operations in North America.
In that time we have assembled a portfolio of operating companies that lead the market in terms of innovation, client and customer satisfaction and financial performance.
Gary Green CEO, North America N No or rt th h A Am me er riic ca a 2004 was an excellent year with like for like turnover growth of 7% and operating profit increasing from 177 million in 2003 to 190 million in 2004.
Compass in the Community ESS and Compass Group Canada are to be the lead sponsors of the new Aboriginal Business Hall of Fame which will become an enduring reminder of the renaissance of Aboriginal communities across Canada.
Top class An annual survey by The Awards and prizes Levy Princeton Review into the best campus food in the United States saw two Bon Apptit Restaurants received the colleges in the top ten.
Wheaton College, restaurant equivalent of Illinois came out tops, whilst Saint Olaf College in Minnesota ranked number nine.
an Oscar, The Ivy, for their Morrison have been awarded the 2004 pioneering work in fusing American Dietetic Association Foundation fine dining with sports and Corporate Award for the companys continuing support for the Foundations entertainment venues.
work in promoting good nutrition.
The Edible Schoolyard Bon Apptit was the recipient of a William D. Littleford Award for Corporate Community Service, hosted by American Business Media, which honours companies, organisations or individuals who do well by doing good.
Bon Apptit was recognised for its project The Edible Schoolyard, at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Middle School in Berkeley, California.
Compass Group PLC 19 Left to right: Didier Coutte Zone Director, Asia Pacific Alain Dupuis C CE EO O, E Ea as st te er rn n D Diiv viis siio on n Seonhe Lim C CF FO O, E Ea as st te er rn n D Diiv viis siio on n Takeshi Kohjima Zone Director, Japan Christophe Laval MD Scolarest & Medirest, France Antoine E A Cau CEO, Western Europe Jean-Claude Ghiotti CEO, Gruppo Onama Italy Hans-Georg Rummler MD, Germany Miguel Ramis CEO, Europe & Latin America Carl Andreasson MD, Nordic Continental Europe and the rest of the world We have leading positions in the worlds established foodservice markets and a strategically important presence in those developing in Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The benefits of this approach are reflected in strong performances in all parts of our operations in Australia, Japan and Greece, and in emerging markets such as China, United Arab Emirates and Chile.
Olympics At the 2004 Summer Olympics Le Train Bleu Le Train Bleu in Pariss Gare Did you know?
in Athens our can-do attitude and belief in fide Lyon station is one of the citys longest Eurest France served over winning through teamwork led to a established restaurants.
It has famously gold medal performance by 40 chefs from colourful dcor and a colourful history.
70,000 meals at Omaha 13 countries including Argentina, Australia, In 1973 it played host to a party given by Brazil, Slovakia, South Africa and United surrealist Salvador Dali who asked our Beach during events to Arab Emirates.
The team served over pastry chef at the restaurant to replace the mark the 60th anniversary 100,000 meals, 18,000 chicken breasts keys on the piano that had been installed and 40,000 baguettes to over for the occasion with chocolate and vanilla of the Normandy D-Day 3,500 broadcasters in the media centre.
Today it is a welcome haven for the Landings.
20 Compass Group PLC The countries in which we operate are the drivers of our future growth.
We have the expertise to leverage the synergies from our global purchasing scale to maximum effect without losing the flexibility to respond to the different cultural needs of the markets in which we work.
Alain Dupuis CEO, Eastern Division Antoine Cau CEO, Western Europe Miguel Ramis CEO, Europe & Latin America Great service Jefta Koning, barista at the Caff Ritazza in our Amsterdam office came first in the hospitality category of the Dutch National Catering Awards.
In Brazil in 2001 our joint venture company, GRSA, put into place Projecto Encaminhar, which trains disadvantaged young people with no work experience, so giving them the opportunity to have a career.
In September 2004 we signed a collaboration agreement with Nestl that will create at least 2,000 jobs before the end of 2006.
Investors in People In South Africa we have become the first company in the foodservice or hospitality sector and the largest in the country to achieve the Investors in People Standard and the first in Compass Group to attain whole organisation recognition.
Compass Group PLC 21 Business and Industry Providing quality foodservice is an increasingly important factor for many organisations in helping them attract and retain employees.
Eurest is the world leader in food and services management to customers at their place of work and provides innovative and high quality solutions.
22 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 23 Market trends Eurest continues to benefit from the Clients need to reduce their foodservice increased trend amongst national and subsidies and customers require innovative multi-national clients to tender catering offerings of high street quality, there is on a group wide basis.
We win and retain also increased demand for grab and go new contracts because of our unique and healthy products that meet everyday business model which allies sectorisation lifestyle needs.
We take very seriously our and brand ownership to our global scale responsibilities to help customers make and purchasing strength.
informed choices about what to eat and in all the markets in which we operate our chefs and During the year we have continued to use product development teams are constantly the brands that we own and franchise to striving to provide clients and customers with differentiate our offer in the marketplace offers that are tailored to their needs.
and drive customer participation and spend.
The Eurest Lunchtime Report is the most In North America we have had another great In Latin America our operations in Argentina, authoritative piece of research on lunchtime year in terms of new business and client Brazil, Chile and Colombia have all performed trends published in the UK.
Eurests notable contract gains very well and we have won new contracts shows that in Britain one in five workers never included Becton, Dickinson and Company, totalling over 40 million in annual revenues takes a break, while the average lunch break Grey Global, Avon Products and a new for clients including Abbot Laboratories, for workers is just 27 minutes.
The average three-year contract with Bank of America with Movicom Bellsouth, Banco Galicia, Unilever, spend on lunch is just over 2 a day, but an combined annual revenues of over $40 million.
additional 3 is spent on snacking.
Our portfolio Sister company Bon Apptit won two of owned and franchised brands gives us the five-year contracts with Symantec worth Achievements Food Alliance, a not for flexibility to meet these trends throughout over $1 million in annual revenues.
profit organisation that certifies ranchers, the day in the restaurant, convenience store farmers and distributors as raising food in or vending machine.
This capability is a key In Japan, Seiyo Food Systems had another a sustainable and socially responsible way competitive advantage.
excellent year using its culinary heritage to selected Bon Apptit as their top retail develop a number of concepts to stimulate foodservice sector partner in Oregon Eurest is the biggest catering company in customer demand.
Customers at Gram and Washington.
the UK and continues to lead the market with One a popular buffet-style offer pay 1 Yen for innovative offerings, particularly in response to each gram of food they purchase.
At Sushi In the UK, Eurest won a coveted PAPA Pizza, the growing trend towards healthy eating.
The Caravan handmade sushi is prepared to Pasta and Italian Food Award as Workplace Healthy Way is being introduced as the basis order and theres also a Steak Teppanyaki Caterer of the Year for its Trattoria pizza and for menu planning and is based on the Food station.
Significant contract gains have pasta concept.
Standards Agencys balance of good health included Credit Saison, NTT Shinagawa, Wako guidelines.
A range of grab and go products, Training Institute, Nissan and Sony, with annual In Argentina, Eurest won a gold award from Food Talk, with a core range of healthy options revenues in excess of Yen 900 million.
the Talentos para la Vida International including salads, fresh vegetable dips and fruit Foundation which is dedicated to promoting, salads has also been introduced.
During 2004 In Australia Good to Go is a self-serve takespreading and rewarding the achievements significant contract gains for Eurest included away offer with a range of fresh, delicious and of youth through educational programmes National Grid Transco and renewed contracts healthy convenient food for those in a hurry.
at primary, secondary and university levels.
with Ashbourne Healthcare, Microsoft and Taste Life has also been developed by Eurest GE Healthcare, with combined annual as a programme to promote good health and turnover of over 10 million.
operates in all our businesses in Australia.
Significant contract gains include a two-year An overweight 60 year old factory worker: a contract with Telstra worth nearly 2 million recent college graduate who is a vegetarian: in annual turnover.
a 48 year old investment banker with diabetes: and a middle aged attorney who is training Despite the backdrop of a challenging to run a marathon.
What do these very economic environment there were some different people have in common?
They are all notable contract gains in France and Germany.
customers in our units in North America who These included in France, Alstom: the are concerned about health and nutrition.
headquarters of the French nuclear agency: power company CEA: defence contractor Balanced Choices offers each of these people GIAT and pharmaceuticals company Sanofi, menu options to meet their lifestyles while and in Germany, Dresdner Bank, Eurohypo, providing educational support under the Bombardier and Zurich Agrippina Group with banner of eat, learn and live.
The factory total annual revenues of 17 million.
worker, for example, might choose a FIT meal to help him lose weight, whilst the investment banker might opt for a Carb Conscious salad.
The Balanced Choices initiative incorporates a comprehensive training programme for our staff in general nutrition education and healthy cooking techniques.
Compass Group PLC 23 Fine Dining We are the chosen supplier for many leading organisations and institutions that wish to offer their clients and visitors first-class hospitality and fine dining services within their offices or venues.
Without compromising on quality or culinary excellence this in-house service guarantees privacy, confidentiality and flexibility that cannot be offered in a restaurant.
Through our specialist executive dining Restaurant Associates also operates some During 2004 we also launched Restaurant companies, we offer the highest quality private of Manhattans finest restaurants such as the Associates in Australia and have already dining arrangements, in association with some Sea Grill, Rock Center Caf, The Brasserie secured prestigious venues such as Sydney of the worlds leading chefs and restaurateurs, on E53rd Street and Brasserie 8, which Town Hall, Customs House at Circular Quay, to companies which demand the best, both in featured on television series Sex and the City.
Sydney and Adelaide Festival Centre as well culinary flair and in professional but discreet On the west coast, chef and founder Joachim as contracts for Reserve Bank of Australia, front-of-house service.
Splichals Patina operates some of Californias Merrill Lynch and Kirribilli House.
finest restaurants at prestigious venues such Restaurant Associates is our principal fine as the Hollywood Bowl, Los Angeles Music dining company.
In the UK, Restaurant Center, Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Associates incorporates Roux Fine Dining, Angeles and the San Francisco Opera House.
In North America, Restaurant Associates works alongside sister companies In 2004, Joachim relocated his flagship Patina, Flik, Levy Restaurants and Wolfgang Patina restaurant, recently described by Puck Catering and Events.
Wine Spectator magazine as the most striking statement about the new L. A.
What sets Restaurant Associates apart from dining scene, and recently named Esquire its competitors is a passion for food and an magazines Restaurant of the Year from its obsession for detail.
Dishes are presented so original home on Melrose Avenue to the Frank as to highlight the quality of the food made Gehry-designed Walt Disney Concert Hall in from fresh seasonal ingredients.
downtown Los Angeles, where the company also operates the Concert Hall Caf and all In North America, Restaurant Associates special event catering.
impressive roster of corporate clients includes Cond Nast, Time Warner, Sony Music, In the UK, internationally renowned chef Deutsche Bank, UBS, Morgan Stanley, Lehman Gary Rhodes, in partnership with Restaurant Brothers, Grey Global, many prestigious law Associates, launched his new restaurant, firms and a number of educational facilities Rhodes Twenty Four, in Tower 42.
The opening such as Rockefeller University and Harvard followed the award of a new, ten-year contract, Business School.
Restaurant Associates worth over 3 million in annual turnover to is also the leading foodservice provider for manage all hospitality and catering services many of the nations premier museums and in the City of Londons tallest building.
In performing arts centres including the American the spring of 2004, Rhodes Twenty Four Museum of Natural History, the Guggenheim, won the BMW Square Meal award for best Metropolitan Museum of Art, Lincoln Center new restaurant.
Restaurant Associates also for the Performing Arts, Carnegie Hall and the operates The Admiralty restaurant at Londons Metropolitan Opera House.
In 2004, Restaurant Somerset House and has won a three-year Associates was chosen to operate the Mitsitam contract for the London Stock Exchanges Native Foods Caf at the newly opened new headquarters worth over Smithsonian National Museum of the American 1 million in annual turnover.
Dishes on offer include ash-roasted sweetcorn on the cob and cedar-planked juniper salmon cooked on an open fire pit.
24 Compass Group PLC R 24 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 25 Travel, Leisure and Concessions In 2004 we established a new international travel concessions division, Select Service Partner SSP, to ensure the efficient and effective operation of our travel and leisure businesses and to maintain our focus on the development of our unique brand portfolio.
Left to right: Hans-Erik Selg MD, SSP Nordic Andrew Lynch CEO, SSP Sukh Tiwana Commercial Director, SSP Global With a strong and growing portfolio of brands in all categories, allied to the Groups global purchasing scale and unique culinary heritage, SSP are the specialists in food and beverage retailing in the travel and leisure sectors.
Andrew Lynch CEO, SSP 26 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 27 Brand success Culinary heritage Developing our own brands is a key driver of We are fanatical about food, and our our growth.
Caff Ritazza, conceived in 1995 culinary heritage is evident in Upper Crust in response to the trend towards ground and where we have a broad range of freshly freshly prepared coffee, was relaunched and baked hot and cold baguettes, cakes and repositioned in 2002.
Upper Crust is available in flexible units in 30 countries serving great coffee formats from a counter top merchandiser every time 5 million times a week.
Great to full service kiosks and walk-in stores.
coffee will always be at the heart and soul of During 2004 the Upper Crust product range Caff Ritazza, but what differentiates the offer has been extended to include a gourmet from competing brands is the unique and range and the successful Wellbeing range extensive range of delicious hot sandwiches which features filled multi-grain baguettes and pastries that appeal to customers and bagels.
right across the day and which increases transactions and spend per head.
Travel Concessions SSP is a market leader further six units over the next 18 months.
We is very simple its about the food, the food, in developing and operating unique, innovative have won tenders to operate 18 sites on the the food and the thousand details that catering offers for travel locations around the Italian motorway network and our international surround it and that shows in the diversity of world 145 airports in 35 countries, 250 railway roadside and railways presence has been venues and events that experience The Levy stations in 11 countries and 140 motorway further boosted by the acquisition of German Difference.
These include Churchill Downs, service areas in 10 countries.
We have a singleconcessionaire Mitropa AG.
home of the Kentucky Derby, Wrigley Field, minded focus on creating a better experience Chicago, MCI Center, Washington, Ford for our customers, better returns for our clients Leisure The leisure sector incorporating Field, Detroit and Fultons Crab House at Walt and great results for the company.
sports, entertainment and cultural venues Disney World.
During 2004 in partnership continues to offer enormous growth potential with sister company Wolfgang Puck Catering Over the last decade we have built up a as customers and corporate hospitality and Events, Levy was awarded a ten-year powerful portfolio of brands, which we own clients seek variety, innovation and quality.
contract to provide fine dining and catering at or franchise, which give clients the right We are using our unique culinary heritage and all Anschutz Entertainment Group AEG sports combination of food and beverage to optimise innovative product development capabilities to and entertainment properties throughout the consumer choice in any travel environment.
reinvent the customer experience year on year world including STAPLES Center, Los Angeles, Through a flexible approach we work with our in line with rising expectations that food offers The Home Depot Center, Carson, California, clients to offer customers the known value of reflect the stature of the event or venue.
Colosseum at Caesars Palace, Las Vegas, instantly recognisable international brands Kodak Theatre, Hollywood, and also at the alongside national brands and bespoke In the UK, All Leisure is the leading multievents including the 46th Annual Grammy concepts that reflect local diversity and taste.
service provider of food services, corporate Awards and the 2004 MTV Video Music Awards.
hospitality and venue management services Nowhere is this more apparent than at Zurich at prestigious locations and events such as Sister company Restaurant Associates fed Airport where we operate 20 units serving over Madame Tussauds, Hampton Court Palace over 650,000 tennis fans at the US Open at 17 million passengers a year.
These include Flower Show, Arsenal football club, the Royal Flushing Meadows and 200,000 golf fans at international franchised brands such as Albert Hall, Twickenham, Cheltenham Festival the 35th Ryder Cup at Oakland Hills Country Burger King, our own international brands and the Wimbledon tennis championships.
including Caff Ritazza and Mamma Leones During the year All Leisure won contracts with and bespoke local concepts that we have annual revenues of 14 million for Henley Royal Rail Gourmet, our specialist on-board rail created exclusively for the airport, including Regatta, the Open Golf Championship, London operating company, entered into a historic the Holiday Bar and Alpenblick.
Zoo, the Oval cricket ground and the new Arena joint venture agreement with the Shanghai Coventry complex due to open in 2005.
Railway Administration to provide station In North America, we acquired Creative Host and onboard services on four high-speed Services, a specialist airports concessions Meanwhile, Milburns, which is the leading trains linking Shanghai and Beijing.
During the year specialist supplier of catering services at is the first time a non-Chinese company we won contracts at Baltimore Washington, heritage sites and historic buildings throughout has provided passenger services on Minneapolis St Paul and Philadelphia the UK, has renewed its contract with the Royal Chinas railways.
Academy of Arts at Londons Burlington House for a further seven years with annual turnover Rail Gourmet also won a new contract in the In Norway, Oslo Gardermoen Airport renewed in excess of 2 million a year.
Milburns also UK with First Great Western: a new four-year SSPs food and beverage contract for a further secured a contract to operate all hospitality contract with SNCB NMBS in Belgium, a seven years.
The award, which includes four events at the fifteenth-century Merchant ten-year contract with Danish rail operator new units, brings SSPs presence at the airport Taylors Hall in York and a three-year contract DSB, a four-year contract with SNCF in to 26 units in total, with annual revenues of at Norwich Cathedral.
France and a four-year contract with joint 27 million.
venture partner SFTA Group for Turkish State In North America, Levy Restaurants, which Railways with combined annual turnover of Moto, our motorway service area MSA celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2004, is the over 20 million.
And Momentum, our joint business has continued to thrive.
Following market leader in sports and entertainment venture with Cremonini SpA, was awarded the successful trial of Marks & Spencer Simply foodservice a long way from the single the Eurostar contract for a further two years Food at Toddington, two more units have Chicago deli, D. B. Kaplans, on which the with annual turnover of over 30 million.
been opened and we have plans to open a business is founded.
The Levy philosophy Compass Group PLC 27 Vending Our offer international 24 7 combined foodservice and vending, allied to innovative product development and leading-edge delivery gives us a clear competitive advantage.
Canteen, which this year celebrated its A renewed contract with Total-Fina-Elf in Products include fat free waffles with fresh 75th anniversary, continues to lead the way Germany for a further five years will increase fruit and sugar-free syrup, low carb beef and in developing market leading solutions that the number of gas stations served by 30%, Swiss cheese sandwiches, Greek salads with focus on quality and freshness.
with annual revenues of over 1 million.
In low-fat feta cheese, Atkins diet snacks and Spain an extension of the contract with Madrid speciality coffees.
Fresh To You offers delicious and fresh Metro and a three-year contract with RENFE, products from our own in-house chefs and the Spanish national rail operator, will result in In Europe, Selecta has taken the lead from popular brands such as Au Bon Pain, combined sales of 1 million.
in responding to concerns about the role sbarro, Mamma Leones and Tony Romas.
of vending machines in schools by Market Central is a complete vending Wellness and nutrition with an increasing re-merchandising machines to place the destination, offering Fresh To You products number of airlines on short-haul routes no emphasis on a more balanced range of alongside popular beverages and snacks longer offering free inflight food, Selecta has products.
In the UK, in Scolarest run secondary and using cutting edge payment technology developed a new public vending concept for schools, 280 glass-fronted vending machines in an inviting and comfortable setting.
Our airline passengers located near to boarding have been installed to replace existing branded vending machines benefit from state of the gates.
Passengers will be able to buy hot and machines offering a range of juices, waters and art technology and careful monitoring by cold beverages, fresh food and snacks to eat healthy snacks.
In the Netherlands, we have skilled service technicians to ensure before departure or on the flight.
The concept introduced healthier products into machines consistent quality coffee.
is being piloted with the client, Unique, in in schools and Fair Trade products on Zurich Airport.
Canteen has formed an exciting new partnership with NASCAR as their official In response to increased concern over rising Great people Mike Kiser, President of vending company.
Featuring our newest levels of obesity and the presence of vending Canteen, has been elected to the Board Market Central destination, NASCAR Express machines in schools, Canteen and Selecta of Directors of the National Automatic Cuisine and NASCAR Cafs popular food have been at the forefront of developing Merchandising Association.
selections, we are attracting NASCARs innovative, industry-leading solutions.
large base of racing fans with a delicious and Canteen has created Balanced Choices, Bjorn Sunden, managing director of Selecta entertaining dining experience.
a range of nutritional products that are low in Sweden, is Chairman of the Swedish in carbohydrates, sugar free, low fat and Automat Society.
The advantage of being able to offer combined caffeine free.
foodservice and vending is illustrated by Selectas success in working with sister companies Eurest and SSP to win significant contracts with annual vending revenues of Left to right: 14 million.
These include Hewlett Packard in Marcel Jacobs Executive Director, Selecta Chris Bucknall CEO, Selecta the UK, Germany, Spain and the Netherlands, Justin Tydeman CFO, Selecta and a five-year contract with Centrica, both with Eurest, and a three-year contract at Copenhagen Airport with SSP.
Selecta has a long pedigree in public vending particularly serving the travelling public throughout Europe.
During the year, notable new contracts have included Kiosk part of Valora AG for a Coffee to Go concept for train stations and other busy locations.
Kiosk has placed an order for an initial 100 machines, with potential for up to 600 machines in two years time generating over 1 million in annual revenues.
28 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 29 Leading edge Clients continue to seek combined foodservice and vending solutions but we are also seeing ever increasing demand for high quality automatic fresh food solutions and a high quality coffee made with fresh beans.
Technological advances allied to our product development capabilities enable us to stay ahead of the market.
Left to right: O ur vending capability is a unique M M Miiik k ke e e K K Kiiis s se e er r r P Pr re es siid fide en nt t, C Ca an nt te ee en n Shari Nettles Marketing Manager, Canteen differential for Compass, not only in providing clients with an integrated foodservice offer but also meeting the needs of the public on the move.
Chris Bucknall CEO, Selecta Mike Kiser President, Canteen 28 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 29 Healthcare Healthcare is one of the major drivers of growth in our business.
Our aim is to be the preferred partner in food and hotel services for hospitals and senior living through our specialist companies Medirest and Morrison, supported in the USA by sister company Crothall, a specialist in healthcare facilities management.
30 C Co om mp pa as ss s G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C Compass Group PLC 31 Patient satisfaction Catering to You is a unique approach, A catering associate will have up to twelve developed by Morrison, to improving contacts with the patient every day.
Patients get to location where Catering to You has been choose their meals just before mealtime introduced there has been a marked increase with a personalised catering associate who in patient satisfaction.
Medirest are looking at reviews the menu with the patient, identifies how the concept can be adapted to operate any special preferences, delivers the meal in other countries.
and checks back with the patient to see if all their requirements are being met.
Clients are looking to contractors not only to In the UK, Medirest renewed its contract with Achievements Glenn Davenport, meet their foodservice requirements but also to five hospitals in the East Kent Hospitals NHS President and CEO, Morrison Management be able to offer a range of other hotel services Trust for a further seven years and a five-year Specialists, was recognised by Nations including laundry, cleaning, portering and contract with the South West Yorkshire Mental Restaurant News as one of the 50 Power reception services.
Hygiene, food nutrition and Health NHS Trust at Fieldhead Hospital near Players in the restaurant industry.
He is also quality, and patient satisfaction are key issues.
Wakefield with combined annual revenues of a past recipient of several prestigious awards, In the UK, Medirest has introduced a new suite 15 million.
most notably the Silver Plate 2000 Award for of cleaning tools and systems, a, that puts us healthcare, and the MUFSO 2000 Golden at the forefront of hospital hygiene.
Wellness and nutrition Morrisons have Chain Award.
Glenn serves on the Board of introduced two new initiatives to promote Directors for the Multicultural Foodservice The first collaboration between Morrison and healthier eating to hospital staff.
LifeSource and Hospitality Alliance MFHA a hospitality Seiyo Food Systems has secured a contract is a holistic programme to encourage healthy diversity organisation.
for the new Yuki Hospital in Ibaraki, Japan everyday living.
It provides information on which opens in December 2005.
The client the latest in health trends through monthly An industry first in 2004 Gene Dolloff, was so impressed with the capability of newsletters, and features menu selections in Chairman of Morrison Senior Dining, was Morrison and Seiyo that since September the restaurant highlighting foods with nutrient asked to become a member of the board of 2004 we have been operating patient feeding, components that help prevent disease.
directors for the International Association of staff and visitor restaurants and vending at the Strides for Life is an eight-week nutrition Homes and Services for the Ageing IAHSA, existing Yuki Hospital with annual revenues education and exercise programme designed an organisation that has never before of Yen 100 million.
to promote lifestyle changes that can improve appointed a board member from a contract overall wellness.
Morrison won contracts with combined annual revenues of over $25 million with Jackson Morrison Senior Dining has launched a County Hospital Authority, Johnson Medical wellness pilot project that seeks to improve Center, Jewish Hospital Medical Center overall wellbeing and resident satisfaction in Louisville, Allina Hospitals & Clinics in by going beyond the traditional approach of Minneapolis St. Paul, HCA Midwest in Kansas nutrition and exercise to encompass the whole City, United Methodist Senior Services in dining experience.
Tupelo and St. Francis Hospital in Greenville, while Crothall won a five-year contract with In the UK one of the challenges is to deliver to St. Michaels Hospital in Toronto and three-year patients a high quality, freshly cooked meal contract with California Development Centers.
that retains its nutritional value and aids their recovery.
Medirest has an impressive track In Norway, Medirest has renewed its contract record of innovation in new delivery systems with the Cato Center, near Oslo for a further that improve the hospital food experience.
We are currently piloting a new concept that cooks fresh food to order in less than five In Hungary we were awarded a ten-year minutes using technology that steams the food, contract with County Hospital Miskolc, in as opposed to traditional cooking methods France we won contracts with Groupe Le without losing any of the nutritional content.
Tonkin-Mrieux, the public hospital system The step change in quality resulting from the in Marseille and AREPA, in Germany we won initial trial has led to a significant increase in a contract with HELIOS Kliniken and in Spain patient satisfaction and staff morale.
with Parc Sanitari Pere Virgili, with combined annual revenues of 19 million.
Compass Group PLC 31 Education Education is one of the most exacting sectors in which we operate.
Young people need to have a varied and nutritious diet.
We have to strike a balance between what they want to eat and what is good for them.
Thats quite a challenge when were feeding so many groups, from three-year-olds at nursery school through to brandconscious students at college and university.
With increased concerns about rising In the independent sector detailed health and In North America Newark Public Schools, levels of childhood obesity our specialist nutrition policies support programmes such New Jersey, awarded Chartwells School education foodservice companies as Scolarests Healthy Heroes in the UK Division a new contract for up to five years Chartwells and Scolarest are taking the which educates children about a healthy and with an annual turnover of $8 million, whilst lead in developing fresh and original ideas balanced diet based on the core food groups.
Richmond Public Schools, Virginia, agreeda to promote healthier eating.
new contract for up to five years with an annual Our market leadership in the sector is turnover of $6 million.
Sister company Bon We work in the education sector in more than reflected in the contracts we have won or Apptit won a ten-year contract with Case 35 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia retained in the year.
In China we have retained Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Pacific, North and Latin America and we have the contract for the International School in Ohio with annual revenues of $9 million.
to tailor our offers to meet the needs of these Beijing and won a five-year contract for the diverse markets.
In North America, breakfast International School in Nanjing.
In France, In the UK we have reduced the salt content of programmes such as Brake for Breakfast in Scolarest has won contracts worth over meals in primary schools by 38% since 2002 elementary schools and Morning Editions 3 million in annual turnover including Groupe and in secondary schools have removed all salt in middle and high schools lead to higher Scolaire Saint-Nicolas Issy les Moulineaux from the cooking process leading to a reduction attainment levels.
Pyramid Pete and The and the prestigious Conservatoire National of 10,000 kilograms in salt purchases.
We also Creatures developed by Chartwells to help Superieur fide Musique et fide Danse fide Lyon.
encourage the baking or grilling of products children in elementary school understand the In Chile we have won contracts with the as opposed to frying.
In secondary schools, importance of eating a well-balanced meal, Catholic University, Universidad fide Talca Wellgood offers children a free portion of side based on the key food groups is now a central and Universidad Mayor.
In Turkey we have salad or vegetables with every main meal part of Scolarests Nurture Our World caf in won contracts worth over 2 million a year purchased and fruit salad, mixed salads and the UK.
In Spain, the programme is adapted with ODTU and Eyuboglu Schools and low sugar drinks are always available.
We have to reflect the Mediterranean diet.
also introduced Upper Crusts Wellbeing range Loony Tunes characters are used as part of into some schools.
a programme, Les Nutrimalins, to teach good In Portugal, Direco Regional fide Educao eating behaviour.
fide Lisboa has renewed its contract worth over $10 million: Linkping University in Sweden, In secondary and high schools, Wellgood in the Island School in Hong Kong, the University the UK and Balanced Choices in North America of Wollongong in Australia and the Taiyo-Kai are designed to make healthy eating the cool Social Welfare Corporation in Japan have thing to do by promoting nutritious options in awarded us contracts worth more than a way that makes them exciting and relevant $10 million in annual revenues.
In the UK Scolarest won a ten-year contract In colleges and universities we look to with fide Montfort University in Leicester worth encourage students to eat a healthy almost 2 million a year, a five-year deal with and balanced diet by making the dining the University of Nottingham worth 1million environment a hub of social interaction.
In a year and contracts worth 1million in North America programmes such as Terra five annual revenues with Old Swinford Hospital cater for the growing vegetarian and vegan School, Bishop Veseys Grammar School and population on campuses, whilst Profiles Camborne School and Community College.
in Good Taste is a unique market-style environment focusing on food preparation and presentation that creates a familiar restaurant setting with an emphasis on fresh and healthy offerings.
In the UK concepts such as WorldMarch offer speciality dishes from around the world cooked fresh to order, including daily specials like Mediterranean pork stirfry with fresh ginger and pineapple.
32 Compass Group PLC Market trends Concerns about the rise in childhood obesity and how to encourage young people to eat more healthily are the dominant trends in the sector.
We recognise that a healthy, nutritious school lunch is only part of the solution and that we have a role to play in helping young people learn the importance of wellness and nutrition and in encouraging a greater understanding of food production and practical cooking skills.
In North America, we use minimal amounts of fat in food preparations.
We primarily use olive and canola oils, which have more monounsaturated and less saturated fat than other cooking oils.
We use non-hydrogenated canola for fried preparations.
Seasonal fruits and vegetables are offered daily, sourced from local farmers practising ecologically responsible farming methods whenever possible.
We purchase meats graded choice or higher and our fresh ground beef and hamburger is 80% lean.
Where space and facilities permit, we roast our deli beef and turkey on the premises.
Achievements Flik Independent Schools District Manager, Jerry Musillo, received the 2 20 00 03 3 L Le ea ad fide er rs sh hiip p A Aw wa ar rd d f fr ro om m t th he e F Fo oo od d A Alllle er rg gy y Initiative for his work developing protocols for dealing with food allergies in the school environment.
Scolarest has launched a unique healthy eating distance learning qualification for s sc ch ho oo oll c co oo ok ks s.. S Sc co olla ar re es st ts s s sc ch ho oo oll c ch he ef fs s a an nd d c ca at te er riin ng g a as ss siis st ta an nt ts s w wo or rk kiin ng g iin n m mo or re e t th ha an n 1 1, 7 70 00 0 s sc ch ho oo olls s a ac cr ro os ss s t th he e U UK K w wiillll h ha av five e h ha ad d t th he e o op pp po or rt tu un niit ty y t to o e en nr ro oll f fo or r t th he e n ne ew w N NC CF FE E IIn nt te er rm me ed diia at te e C Ce er rt tiif fiic ca at te e iin n N Nu ut tr riit tiio on n a an nd d Health from September 2004.
IIn n t th he e U UK K, S Sc co olla ar re es st t w wa as s a aw wa ar rd fide ed d t th he e L Lo oc ca all A Au ut th ho or riit ty y C Ca at te er re er rs s A As ss so oc ciia at tiio on ns s p pr re es st tiig giio ou us s N Na an n B Be er rg ge er r M Me em mo or riia all A Aw wa ar rd d iin n r re ec co og gn niit tiio on n o of f t th he eiir r e ex xe em mp plla ar ry y w wo or rk k iin n t th he e t tr ra aiin niin ng g a an nd d d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t o of f e ed du uc ca at tiio on n c ca at te er riin ng g s st ta af ff f.. 32 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 33 ESS Support Services Worldwide ESS offers integrated outsourced solutions to our corporate clients as well as the specialist sectors of Defence, Offshore and Remote Site.
We are the world leader in this rapidly growing sector, with a unique range of capabilities and best in class partnerships that provide our clients with facility management and support services in difficult and often hostile environments.
The key to ESSs continued success is the In January 2002, ESS signed a Preferred Our People we are committed to increasing ability to provide innovative solutions to the Supplier Agreement PSA with Chevron the number of local nationals in management needs of our clients.
Design and build has Texaco.
Concurrently, we finalised contract positions and reducing our reliance on been a major factor for us in recent years, negotiations with Tengiz Chevroil in Kazakhstan expatriate employees.
In Kazakhstan for during 2004 we established a new division, to operate their catering, facilities management example over 98% of our employees are local 2 4D to provide value engineered construction and transportation services in Atyrau and nationals.
Our businesses in Gabon and Ghana management to clients, including large remote Tengiz.
This contract has now developed to are run by local nationals and our HR managers site camps providing accommodation, a current base population of 8,000 personnel.
in Kazakhstan, Algeria, Angola and Nigeria administration, recreation and dining facilities In 2004, ESS mobilised contracts in Escravos are professionally qualified local nationals.
4D applies turnkey and Lekki in Nigeria, in Malongo, Angola and Through our recently launched Future solutions to ensure that food and other delivery negotiated service agreements to provide Leaders Programme we are accelerating the systems are cost effective and fit for purpose, foodservice at ChevronTexacos new offices development of high potential local nationals building them to exacting standards on time in Houston.
Other divisions are already taking advantage of this experience.
ESS has enjoyed an 18-year relationship with 2 For example, 4D has designed and built ConocoPhillips for catering in the Ekofisk oil 19 food courts in colleges and universities field off the coast of Norway.
Last year the in North America for Chartwells.
contract was renewed for a further six years, worth over $20 million a year, along with a new Our growth has been fuelled by significant contract for the Port Rigmar rig for two years, contract gains in all our markets.
Growth has highlighting the strength of the relationship.
been particularly strong in the defence sector Statoil have renewed their contract with ESS as a result of increased military and peaceNorway for the SNORRE A B platforms for keeping activity across the globe.
ESS has a further three years.
an enviable track record in supporting the UN around the world and in 2004 we won contracts We have also signed a Contractor Strategic in Liberia, Eritrea and Burundi, in addition to Relationship Agreement CSRA with Fluor our operations in Kosovo, Cyprus, East Timor, Global Sourcing & Supply Inc. for site support the Golan Heights and Lebanon.
We are now services around the world.
looking after over 30,000 blue helmets, making us the most extensive supplier of these Our UK offshore division had a particularly services to the UN.
successful year securing new and retained contracts with annual revenues of 90 million.
We are also the leading provider of services to These include a contract with Total E&P for the Turkish military, providing foodservice at the provision of catering, cleaning and facilities over 60 locations including Manisa 1 Infantry management services for almost 900 staff at Brigade and Golcuk Navy Command Centre the companys offices in Aberdeen and at the and in Qatar we serve over 6,000 meals a day St. Fergus facilities near Peterhead and the to the Qatar Defence Force.
Elgin Franklin, Alwyn and Dunbar offshore platforms.
Other contracts include a threeyear agreement with Prosafe including Safe Caledonian and MSV Regalia, Odfjell Drilling on its semi-submersible drilling rig, Deepsea Bergen, and ENIs Balmoral and Tiffany platforms.
34 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 35 Acting responsibly Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, These objectives are backed up by best particularly with regard to health and safety practice systems that are simple and and environmental protection HSE, is a key effective, but flexible enough to be adapted point of differentiation for ESS.
In 2004, we to meet the diverse needs of the sectors in held an intensive five-day workshop attended which we operate.
by all our health, safety, environment and quality representatives, senior management Our focus on health and safety has been and clients, to launch a new HSE policy.
A recognised in the UK by the Royal Society for key tenet of the policy is All Accidents Are the Prevention of Accidents which awarded Preventable, with emphasis on three core us one of their coveted health and safety objectives: no harm to people, no accidents accreditations and the British Safety Council and no harm to the environment.
where we won a National Safety Award for the third consecutive year.
Left to right: Andy Furlong Executive Director, Corporate Support Services Peter Harris CEO, ESS Support Services Worldwide Adrian Dyer Executive Director, Middle East This has been another excellent year with significant new contract gains in all corners of the globe.
Through the commitment, dedication and unrivalled expertise of our teams, we are providing great service to our customers and adding real value to our clients operations which is reflected in the longstanding relationships we have with many of our clients.
Peter Harris CEO, ESS Support Services Worldwide 34 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 35 Procurement and Purchasing Through our experienced, specialist teams we are constantly striving to improve our efficiency and leverage our global purchasing scale, whilst ensuring that the products we source meet our requirement in terms of quality and traceability.
Each year we purchase about 5 billion of In the UK, for example, Sevita has been Working with us is PDMs first major step goods and services worldwide, of which over working with Moto to source local and regional into supplying the foodservice sector and 3.5 billion is food, about one third of our total speciality products for sale in the retail shops we have supported them through this change turnover.
With over 40,000 outlets across and restaurants across the motorway service encouraging them to develop their knowledge the world, it is vitally important that we have area estate.
A pilot project was established of this expanding marketplace.
In return, we replicable systems and processes to ensure with Snitterfield Fruit Farm to supply apple have full traceability across the supply chain: that we maximise the efficiencies of our global juice, jam, soft fruits and bakery products to lettuces grown for our business are picked, scale.
However, we also recognise that there Moto sites in Warwickshire on a trial basis.
prepared and packed out in the fields using is a growing trend amongst our clients and Following excellent feedback from customers, the latest technology, to ensure that the final customers for assurance as to the source of the the project was extended across the country product arrives into our central distribution food they eat and the sustainability of supply.
using our logistics partners central distribution platform less than 24 hours after being picked We have developed a robust purchasing platform, so that the farm only had to deliver from one of PDMs farms.
model that delivers continuing opportunities to one central location as opposed to making for margin improvement, whilst giving us the individual site deliveries.
Snitterfield has In North America, Bon Apptit, working in flexibility, where necessary, to meet our clients experienced a significant increase in sales and partnership with not-for-profit organisation needs at a local level.
as a result has extended its bakery operation Environmental Defense, has launched a ground and moved apple juice production into a new, breaking purchasing policy that reduces the This model was first developed in the UK and is purpose built facility on the farm.
use of antibiotics in food animal production.
now being implemented across Europe through Since June 2004, Bon Apptit has only Sevita, our specialist European purchasing Sevita is also working to ensure that a range purchased chicken that has been produced operation, in North America through Foodbuy of organic products and produce is available without the routine use of medically important and is also being adopted by other countries.
Since June 2004, antibiotics and has applied a purchasing We have put in place specialist category buyers working with one of our major UK distributors, preference for meat, dairy and seafood that who deal directly with growers, producers and we have been able to ensure that fresh organic have been produced with reduced amounts manufacturers.
This enables our suppliers to produce such as carrots, bananas and salad of antibiotics.
work to our own bespoke specification rather items is available to all 8,500 of our UK units than forcing us to rely entirely on a network where they have a requirement.
We use only Through its Circle of Responsibility programme of regional wholesalers and distributors.
By products certified by the Soil Association or Bon Apptit has a long track record in separating product costs from distribution Organic Farmers & Growers.
adopting purchasing policies that support costs, we have the level of quality and control the environment and sustainability.
Bon we need to ensure traceability throughout the In 2003, Fresh Gourmet Organics was Apptit offers Fair Trade, shade grown and supply chain whilst achieving cost efficiency supplying sandwiches to just one Compass organic coffee: is serving as a beta-test site through our use of central distribution unit at the BBC: now working with Sevita they for biodegradable disposables made from platforms.
The flexibility of our model also are supplying to many additional units within renewable sources: and leads the way in provides opportunities for regional and niche the M25.
making responsible purchasing decisions that suppliers who continue to provide added value preserve healthy fish stocks.
An example of this products in each of the sectors we operate in.
Sevita, in association with Defra, is working commitment is the partnership with Monterey with a number of UK producers and growers.
Bay Aquariums Seafood Watch programme Over the last year, we have been working with that encourages the use of sustainable a UK grower PDM Produce for the majority seafood.
The Seafood Watch mission is to shift of our UK lettuce volume requirements during consumer-buying habits to support sustainable the UK growing season May September.
fishing and aquaculture operations, we support Founded in the 1930s, PDM Produce is this goal by only offering sustainable seafood a family concern with a core business of choices in Bon Apptit operations.
36 Compass Group PLC Left to right: Our purchasing model is a key competitive Nick Thomas Finance Director, Sevita Purchasing advantage.
As we roll out this capability Chris Bucknall across our global operations we will Group Chief Executive, continue to achieve growth in our like for Commercial Services like margin, whilst ensuring that the quality P Pa au ull G Gr riim me es s Managing Director, Sevita Purchasing of the products and services that we buy meet the expectations of our clients and customers.
Chris Bucknall CEO, Commercial Services 36 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 37
