Group operations Computacenter is a leading European independent provider of IT infrastructure services.
To help our customers maximise the value of IT to their businesses, we offer services at every stage of infrastructure deployment.
Our corporate and government clients are served by a network of branch offices across the UK, Germany, France, Luxembourg and Belgium, and through our international partners at locations throughout the world.
Computacenters European regions United Kingdom Germany Offices Aberdeen, Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Offices Aachen, Berlin, Essen, Frankfurt, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Gatwick, Hatfield, Leeds, Hamburg, Hanover, Kerpen, Kiel, Leipzig, London, Maidenhead, Manchester, Milton Ludwigshafen, Munich, Nuremberg, Keynes, Reading, Watford Ratingen, Saarbruecken, Stuttgart Revenue 1,433.7 million Revenue 655.5 million Number of employees 4,909 Number of employees 3,472 France Offices Bordeaux, Dijon, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Nantes, Nice, Orlans, Paris, Pau, Rennes, Rouen, Strasbourg, Toulouse Revenue 300.4 million Belgium and Luxembourg Number of employees 1,139 Offices Brussels, Luxembourg Revenue 21.0 million Number of employees 104 02 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 2004 2003 Highlights 2004 million million Group revenue 2,455.8 2,481.3 1 Group operating profit 65.7 65.9 2 Profit before tax 67.3 65.2 3 Diluted earnings per share 25.1p 24.6p Year-end Group employee numbers 9,838 9,919 1 Excluding results of associated undertaking and joint venture.
2 Calculated as profit before tax excluding non-operating exceptional items.
Computacenter advises customers on Infrastructure Integration Business activity their IT strategy, implements appropriate Computacenter helps IT departments technologies and manages elements implement and integrate new technologies of their IT infrastructures on their behalf.
into their infrastructures through its At every stage we aim to help customers considerable technical and project minimise the cost and maximise the management skills.
Our application of value of their IT.
best practice means new solutions can be implemented at lower cost, in less Managed Services time and with greater certainty.
Our Managed Services allow IT departments to free up their time by Technology Sourcing outsourcing specific areas of infrastructure Computacenter serves as a single source management to Computacenter.
By for an organisations entire IT procurement shouldering this responsibility, we can needs.
Our vendor independence means provide our customers with improved we can leverage our economies of scale, service levels and reduce their ongoing streamlined logistics capability and operational costs.
We also give them strategic relationships to source access to additional specialist skills that technology that meets customer can be scaled upwards or downwards requirements and provides best value.
according to their changing business requirements.
Computacenter plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
