Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann concentrating on our core strengths Last year was a poor year for the Group, but also a year of exceptional During the year, to improve service levels, we have made further changes and essential refocus, returning the Group to its core activities.
Group to our distribution network.
We have relocated our Shefeld and Newcastle profit before tax, excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, distribution centres to new purpose-built warehouses.
Each new depot was down 34 per cent to 67m.
This result was made worse by operating includes industry-leading Pick and Pack technology.
Further new exceptional costs of 101m arising in a number of areas.
News Distributions distribution centres are planned for Slough, the Midlands, Wales strong performance was driven by good sales, up 6 per cent to 1,182m and the West Country in the coming months.
Travel Retail also delivered a solid performance with sales growth of 3 per cent and underlying profit growth of 10 per cent, We have secured contract renewals with two key publishers, Frontline while High Street Retail saw a sales decline of 2 per cent, which combined and Trinity Mirror, and we are in the advanced stages of negotiation with with margin pressure and cost ination, resulted in an underlying profit a number of others.
The Management Team is also continuing to provide decline of 66 per cent.
supporting information to the Ofce of Fair Trading to help them consider the industrys request for block exemption from changes to the Competition During the year we identied the need to simplify the Group and disposed Act.
These changes are due to come into effect in May 2005. of our retail activities in the US and Asia Pacic and in September we disposed of our publishing business, Hodder Headline.
The disposal of Finally, in September, Tim Hely Hutchinson, Chairman of WHSmith WHSmith News In the last year operates 24 hours WHSmith introduced Hodder Headline allowed us to return 207m to shareholders.
The Group News transferred to Hachette Livre S. A. following the sale of Hodder a day, 364 days a year 947 new fashion is now focused on its core UK activities Retail and News Distribution.
Neil Monnery, Group Strategy Director succeeds Tim as to deliver newspapers stationery products and magazines.
In a including Hyperower Chairman of WHSmith News.
year, WHSmith News the range that is WHSmith News distributes enough currently brightening up WHSmith News, Hodder magazines to circle classrooms and ofces News Distributions underlying profit increased by 9 per cent to 35m Travel Retail the earth 68 times.
2003: 32m and sales grew by 6 per cent.
New launches in the magazine Travel Retail has performed well, delivering underlying profit of 21m Headline and Travel Retail market continued to stimulate demand and newspapers too have benefited 2003: 19m, with strong cash generation.
Airport sales were up 8 per cent, delivered strong performances, from innovation, particularly with the introduction of compact editions broadly in line with passenger number increases, having benefited from in the broadsheet market.
a more stable travel environment, while sales in the railway station stores however the unacceptable The Life of Pi won the 2002 Man Booker Prize.
The paperback edition performance of the High Street Operational efficiencies resulted in reduced costs for the third consecutive sold over 65,000 copies year.
Our investments in the SAP technology platform have resulted in at WHSmith in 2004, In our core categories, books performed well with sales up 3 per cent year business over Christmas led making it one of our greater accuracy in the packing and distribution process and have improved on year, and confectionery and drink sales performed ahead of expectations best-selling ction titles.
to a material profit shortfall marketing services for both publishers and retailers.
Also leveraging our with a number of highly successful promotions.
investment in SAP, we have agreed a commercial partnership with the against market expectations.
magazine distributor Comag to develop and maintain, on its behalf, Costs have been well managed during the year and we continue to strive a marketing services system.
for further efficiencies in all areas of the business through improving our processes.
In August we completed the ret of our store at London Kings Cross.
The new layout has enhanced xturing enabling us to increase product densities and reduce the amount of time spent restocking.
For our busy travel customers this means more products on shelves and quicker service.
Successful aspects of the new layout will be transferred across the estate.
Underlying profit is operating profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and pension service costs.
4 WH Smith PLC 5 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann returning to our roots High Street Retail At a strategic level, to drive consistent growth we need to rebuild authority In June this year Paul The poor performance of High Street Retail over Christmas highlighted in our core categories stationery, books and magazines thereby Gascoigne, one of Britains favourite the operational shortcomings and fundamental strategic challenges faced returning to our roots as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and footballers, scored by the business.
However, it is important to understand that, in my view, newsagent.
Our analysis shows that there is capacity within the current with the launch of his autobiography, Gazza the underlying business performance has been weak for a number of years store portfolio to increase display space and product density substantially My Story.
Detailing the and that the Christmas performance was symptomatic of longer-term issues in order to accommodate signicantly extended product ranges.
By using ups and downs of Pauls life and career, in its and some deep-rooted challenges.
our existing space more efficiently, we will start to regain category authority month of launch it with our customers.
was our best-selling non-ction title.
These issues are addressable but will take time to correct.
However, I do fully believe that they are solvable.
The business has significant strengths We have three initiatives under way to drive change in this area space on which to build an extensive store portfolio with great locations and expansion, refocusing our entertainment offer on growth areas, and trials decent-sized stores, high customer footfall and scale in its core markets.
of extended ranges and concessions in some of our largest stores.
Before Christmas 2004 we will have implemented all these initiatives and further High Street Retail turnaround plan space initiatives are being planned for next year and beyond.
In January we began a full operational and financial review which identied FHM is our biggestselling monthly mens the key areas that we needed to focus on to start to address the operational, The space expansion initiative will make better use of the existing space magazine.
Each month strategic and cultural issues faced by the business.
in-store through expanding ranges or reallocating space to make it more we sell in excess of 20,000 copies of FHM convenient for customers to shop and for staff to manage seasonal and more than 17,000 Operationally the focus is on returning to the retail basics.
For example, we have identied the opportunity to increase copies of the movie must-have, Empire.
improving product availability, initially by focusing on availability of topsubstantially our card ranges and some of our stationery products such as selling lines, ensuring we have the right products in the right stores and les.
We have also identied the opportunity to establish permanent space that there is a clear value proposition for customers.
for seasonal products to avoid having to move lots of xtures at Christmas, which causes additional work and customer confusion.
We plan to optimise margins following a period of margin erosion when the business drove sales at heavy cost to margin.
Leveraging our market In the entertainment category, it is difficult for WHSmith to achieve position and increasing the amount of stationery products sourced from authority across the whole range.
Therefore we are reallocating space the Far East will improve buying margins, whilst better management of towards areas where a competitive position can be achieved: for example promotions and stock will ensure tighter control of selling margins.
giving more space to the faster growing DVD category and reducing space of lower growth entertainment products such as CD albums and VHS titles.
Driving cost efficiency will be another key part of improving our business performance.
Savings of around 30m by August 2007 will be achieved Finally, we have identied that in approximately 90 of our largest stores, through the restructuring of head ofce, focusing on productivity, we have more space than needed for the largest current ranges.
This gives exibility in stores and savings in administration.
us the opportunity to test further range extensions and introduce in-store OK!, heat, Now and With the growth concessions that complement the overall proposition.
are WHSmiths of homeworking, most popular womens WHSmiths cross-cut weekly magazines.
shredder has become Packed full of celebrity one of our best-selling news and gossip, stationery essentials WHSmith sells over ensuring that Over the Christmas 14 million womens condentiality and season WHSmith sells weekly magazines security are available 3.5 million packs of every year.
boxed cards and 2.5 million rolls of wrapping paper approximately 10 million metres end to end.
6 WH Smith PLC 7 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Chief Executives Operating Review Kate Swann making early progress Early progress In entertainment, by Christmas 2004, we aim to have a destination offer of Over 10 million ball pens This year WHSmith Having established a plan to address the business issues, we started by over 2,600 titles in 67 stores and we intend to nearly double the DVD range and lead pencils are sold sold over 1.6 million by WHSmith every year.
A4 Rell Pads thats restructuring head ofce and removing unnecessary activities.
Following in a further 380 stores to approximately 1,000 titles, without any increase three and a half pads a comprehensive organisational review we identied a net reduction of in oor space allocation.
At the same time we have taken focus away from of paper for everyone living in Wiltshire, where 272 roles from head ofce, of which 240 have already left the business.
lower growth entertainment products CD singles have been removed, WHSmith Retail is based.
In addition to reducing costs, this was an important step in helping simplify and CD albums and VHS titles reduced.
the business and establishing clear accountabilities across all the teams.
In August we agreed an initial deal with Costa Coffee for coffee shops in 20 We also saw some progress in reducing controllable costs in the second of our largest stores.
These concessions provide a valuable customer service half of the year, particularly in the areas of marketing and discretionary and help maximise the return on our assets.
All were implemented without administration expenditure.
Further efficiency savings will come through any reduction in range.
in the current financial year, contributing to our target of some 30m by August 2007.
The High Street Retail Management Team has also been strengthened with the appointment of four new external directors in finance, strategy, human By improving store standards and implementing changes in the supply resources and marketing, as well as recruitment from our sister businesses chain we are well on the way to increasing availability for top-selling lines of News and Travel in information systems and store operations.
from 90 per cent to the targeted 95 per cent.
This is one of the key retail basics and the team is now moving its focus to the rest of the range.
Outlook The simplication of the Group structure enables us to focus more This year WHSmith has Last Christmas, the top-selling items in some of our product categories effectively on our core activities Retail and News Distribution.
increased substantially were not available in all our stores.
By this Christmas, key sellers in both its card ranges.
An average store has stationery and books will have extended distribution.
Our Travel and News Distribution businesses continue to perform well doubled the number and, assuming a stable travel environment and regulatory climate for of cards on sale to approximately As part of the space expansion in the summer, new card xtures were News, the businesses are well positioned to make good progress on their The Pirates of the 3,500 cards.
installed to accommodate an increase in cards on display from, on average, Caribbean was a huge established growth paths.
hit with customers at 1,400 to 3,500 per store.
Permanent exible space for books and stationery Christmas 2003 selling has now been introduced and we have also added new front-of-store The High Street business has suffered from operational issues and strategic more than 200,000 copies.
The childrens best-seller bays in 385 stores.
We have a clear plan to deliver improvements and value to favourite for the year was Finding Nemo.
Another shareholders and we have started to implement the early stages of the plan.
record breaking DVD hit was Peter Kay, Live at During the year we have had to make some difficult decisions to bring the Bolton Albert Halls, which sold more copies about necessary change.
The agenda for recovery is full and while much than any other non lm remains to be done, the hard work and commitment of our staff has comedy title ever.
enabled us to make progress during the course of the year.
Kate Swann Group Chief Executive 14 October 2004 8 WH Smith PLC 9 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Board of Directors Management Team a strengthened management team Board of Directors Richard Handover joined the Board Kate Swann is Group Chief Executive John Warren is Group Finance John Barton is a non-executive Walker Boyd is a non-executive MT Rainey is a non-executive Andrew Rolfe is a non-executive The Board is responsible in November 1995, was appointed and joined the Board in November Director and joined the Board director and joined the Board director and joined the Board in director and joined the Board in director and joined the Board Group Chief Executive in October 2003.
She started her career at in September 2000.
She is Chairman of in September 2003.
He is President 1997 and became Chairman in Tesco PLC before moving to his career with Ernst & Young, as Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Finance Director of Signet Group advertising agency Rainey Kelly of Gap Inc. s International Division for ensuring the delivery of November 2003.
He has worked for positions at Homepride Foods, Chartered Accountants.
In 1981, Thompson Group PLC in plc since 1995, having been Finance Campbell Roalfe Y&R, part of the and was formerly Chairman and companies in the WHSmith Group Coca-Cola Schweppes and Dixons he joined United Biscuits, becoming December 2001, having formerly Director of their UK division since WPP Group and is also Chairman Chief Executive of Pret A Manger maximum shareholder value.
since 1964, becoming Managing Stores Group.
She then worked for Group Finance Director in 1991. been the Chief Executive of Jardine 1992.
He is a member of the of the Marketing Group of Great and a director of Booker PLC.
Director of WHSmith News in 1995.
Homebase, ultimately as Managing He is a non-executive director Insurance Brokers Group PLC.
Institute of Chartered Accountants Britain.
She is a Visiting Professor Aged 38.
He is a non-executive director of the Director, before becoming of RAC plc.
He is Chairman of Wellington of Scotland.
Aged 52. at the University of Glasgow Nationwide Building Society and Managing Director of Argos in Underwriting plc, and a nonBusiness School, and a Trustee Royal Mail Holdings PLC and December 2000.
She is a nonexecutive director of Hammerson of think tank Demos and the Chairman of the Adult Learning executive director of Lambert plc and Next plc.
Management Team Kate Swann is Group Chief Executive John Warren is Group Finance Neil Monnery is Group Strategy Tanith Dodge is Group HR Director Brendan Fitzmaurice is Managing The Management Team is and joined the Board in November Director and joined the Board Director and Chairman of and joined WHSmith in November Director of WHSmith News, having 2003.
He joined 2003 from Intercontinental Hotels worked for different parts of the Tesco PLC before moving to his career with Ernst & Young, WHSmith in March 2004 and was Group where she was Senior Vice WHSmith Group for over 40 years.
responsible for the delivery positions at Homepride Foods, Chartered Accountants.
In 1981, previously a Senior Vice President President for EMEA for three years.
He joined WHSmith News in 1985 Coca-Cola Schweppes and Dixons he joined United Biscuits, becoming and director at the Boston Prior to this Tanith held senior as Sales and Marketing Manager of business performance targets.
She then worked for Group Finance Director in 1991.
He joined BCG HR director positions at Diageo, for magazines and was appointed Homebase, ultimately as Managing He is a non-executive director in 1984 and was head of BCGs Prudential and Allied Domecq.
Director, before becoming of RAC plc.
UK Consumer and Retail practice Aged 44.
Managing Director of Argos in where his work for retailers focused December 2000.
She is a nonon revenue improvement, cost executive director of Lambert reduction, growth, organisation Howarth Group plc.
10 WH Smith PLC 11 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate Responsibility maintaining standards The community The marketplace Over the last three The FTSE4Good Indices Over the last year the Companys community investment programme WHSmith takes its responsibilities for the products it sells seriously.
years, WHSmith TXT has are designed to measure helped teachers to raise the performance of companies has remained focused on education, and specically on helping teachers We aim to supply high-quality products that are safe for our customers the literacy skills of 11-14- that meet globally recognised to improve students literacy skills in schools in disadvantaged areas of and are produced by people working in decent living conditions, with year-olds by providing corporate responsibility goods and services in standards, and to facilitate the country.
minimal possible impact on the environment.
It also provides a reference point for companies wishing to achieve In its final year, our agship programme, WHSmith TXT, continued We have well-established quality processes ensuring that our own-brand best practice in corporate to support in excess of 100 selected secondary schools across the UK, products comply with relevant legislation and meet our customers responsibility standards.
helping teachers to raise literacy skills amongst 11-14-year-olds.
With regard to our suppliers, we have established a number programme, which over the last three years has provided the schools of partnerships to help us in our work: two of the most important being with 1.5m of books, magazines, vouchers and services absolutely free, also the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and the WWF-UK Forest & Trade encourages participating WHSmith stores to develop mutually beneficial Network FTN.
links with their partner school in ways that meet the individual needs of both parties.
During the year we revised our Ethical Trading Code of Conduct bringing it into line with the ETIs Base Code.
We also reviewed our processes, In recognition of its impact, WHSmith TXT This has enabled many WHSmith staff to become involved in the day-to-day the associated documentation and reporting mechanisms in line with was this year awarded life of the schools, not only helping students with developing their reading their requirements.
Business in the Communitys BIG TICK skills but also providing opportunities for them to develop an awareness standard for the second of the world of work and equip them with skills for working life.
The Since 2001 we have been auditing all of the factories that we use in year running.
The Ethical Trading impact of the programme has been significant: the Far East.
From January 2004, these audits were carried out by an Initiative ETI exists to independent third party.
This gives us additional confidence that our identify and promote good practice in the 80 per cent of participating schools said WHSmith TXT had made suppliers are working towards the ethical and quality standards that implementation of codes a significant contribution to raising literacy standards.
Our Far East quality manager manages the overall evaluation of labour practice.
It is an alliance of companies, 90 per cent reported that students had a greater interest in reading.
process and engages with the suppliers to promote best practice.
non-government 95 per cent of schools said that the scheme had had a positive impact organisations and trade unions committed on their view of WHSmith as an organisation.
In the UK we use a  approach to managing our to working together to suppliers, followed up by visits from our quality team and CR manager.
In recognition of WHSmith TXTs impact, for the second year running In recent years many of our UK-based suppliers have moved production the programme was the recipient of Business in the Communitys BIG to the Far East or are themselves sourcing products or materials from TICK standard.
This accolade is awarded to companies that are able countries such as China.
Recognising this shift, we have updated to demonstrate a high standard of excellence in the way they organise our UK programme to include a greater emphasis on how suppliers and integrate their responsible business practices, and can demonstrate manage their own, increasingly complex, supply chains.
Twenty-six of a positive impact both on society and on the business.
our key, own-brand suppliers have been sent a revised self-assessment questionnaire and follow-up is ongoing.
WHSmith Trust registered charity no.
1013782 The WHSmith Trust, Our staff are great ambassadors for the Company and the WHSmith Trust Many of the issues are complex and cannot be solved overnight simply established in 1992, is a registered charity continues to provide grants to support the excellent voluntary efforts of by forcing factories to comply with standards.
We have been actively whose aim is to help WHSmith staff in their local communities.
A wide spectrum of activities involved with two ETI pilot projects, one in China and one in India, raise and distribute funds to charitable received support during the course of the year, with major charity working to identify best practice and understand how progress may organisations in which beneciaries including the University Hospital North Staffordshire, be best achieved.
members of staff are involved.
Home Start Chorley and South Ribble, the Prostate Cancer Charity, and the Sophie Centre in Streatham.
Through the Trusts Volunteers in Schools scheme, grants were also made to support members of staff who are regularly involved as representatives on either a schools governing body or Parent Teacher Association.
Formerly known as the WWF 95 Group.
12 WH Smith PLC 13 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 We have also participated in the ETIs China and Homeworkers working Management teams in each business, supported by professional safety Corporate groups which have helped us to understand more fully potential issues advisers from the Group Risk and Occupational Health Department in our supply chain both in the UK and in the Far East.
Key activities GROHD, monitor key safety performance indicators and an have included: annual report of each business detailing trends, performance and Responsibility recommendations is presented to the Board.
Each business also has Participation in a conference in Guangzhou in May 2004 to introduce a properly constituted health and safety committee that comprises the ETI and its work to improve occupational health and safety in China.
employees representatives, management, trade union representatives Participation in a conference in Delhi, along with six of our suppliers, and ofcials.
The number of accidents affecting the Company are to raise awareness of the ETIs work on homeworkers.
illustrated below: Participation in regular working group meetings in the UK and Hong Accidents and incidents Kong by members of our quality and corporate responsibility teams.
Rate per 100,000 employees 2004 2003 2002 Contribution to ETI Best Practice Guidelines October 2003, on Major injury 76 86 69 implementing the ETI Base Code.
This gives examples of problems Injury resulting in over 3 days absence from work 628 557 451 encountered in implementation and guidance on how to address them.
ALL RIDDORS 704 643 520 The number of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Our product ranges contain a wide range of paperand wood-based Occurrence Regulations.
products that come from a large number of forest sources from around the In 2004 the workplace accident performance rate per 100,000 employees world.
Ultimately we want all material used in our products to come from was 704, which is higher than the previous two years.
There was welcome well-managed and credibly-certied forests such as those certied by the reduction in the number of major injuries suffered in the business but Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
However, we recognise that the issues a disappointing increase in the number of injuries resulting in an absence are complex and it will take us time to get to this position.
In the meantime, from work of over three days.
WHSmith monitors all accidents that occur in we are working to trace all our own-brand forest products back to source.
the workplace and this allows us to assess trends and address areas of highest We expect our own-brand suppliers to know where forest material used in risk.
The nature of our business indicates that manual handling will be a their products comes from and be able to provide evidence that it has been major cause of risk and the statistics bear this out with 39 per cent of all legally harvested, and we are working to eliminate supplies that do not reported accidents having manual handling as the root cause.
This is an comply with our purchasing policy.
area we will be focusing on during the next 12 months and we will be monitoring our performance against agreed targets for improvement.
We have renewed our commitment to the WWF-UK FTN, which works WWFa global conservation Our relationship with Accidents by type 1 September 2003 31 August 2004 organisation is building with UK companies to improve forest management around the world.
the Woodland Trusts a future in which people Christmas Card 6 1.
Handling 39% In November 2003 we held a conference on ethical trade for 27 key own- 1 7 live in harmony with the Recycling Scheme 5 2.
Struck by xed object 16% natural world.
During brand suppliers with a specic focus on responsible sourcing of paperJanuary, customers can 3.
Struck by moving falling object 13% and timber-based products.
This was followed by the release of revised bring their Christmas 4.
Slip trip fall 18% supplier guidance on forest sourcing and the collection of data covering cards into our High Street stores.
Fall from height 5% 4 two-thirds by volume of our own-brand wood and paper products.
Others 8% 2 3 We have continued to engage with suppliers: gaining evidence of legality, seeking to increase volumes of certied product and have begun to In 2004 the publics While safety is the primary issue in any discussion of the workplace, other integrate these considerations into product specications and buying response was outstanding.
In total, 45 million cards improvements and changes are important as well.
Our News Distribution business has also been active in this area, were collected, equivalent developing supplier questionnaires to identify and highlight any illegal to wood from 15,000 trees.
Empowered employees are key to ensuring that we embed the changes forest sources of paper and timber.
that have been made over the course of 2004.
During the year, support has been given to employees to help set clear objectives and provide focus The workplace on delivering value for the organisation.
Clear accountabilities have been The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards established and consequently there is much greater alignment between of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
Company goals and individual actions.
In addition, we have established The effective management of health and safety is a legal issue and it is The project supported clear values and behaviours accountability, drive for results, customer also business critical as it affects reputation, investor confidence, supplier the Woodland Trust in its work to protect UK focus and valuing our people.
The alignment of future performance relationships, staff morale and overall profitability.
woodland, enabling management and reward strategies behind these values will ensure they some 883 tonnes of card that may otherwise are driven into the business.
The Companys health and safety policy is regularly reviewed by the Board have gone to landll to ensure that the high standards it sets are maintained.
This year the policy to be recycled.
In our stores, we have implemented revised work practices to align was reviewed, updated, signed by the Chairman, Richard Handover, and our employees core hours with the changing and evolving needs of our reissued throughout all our business locations.
A copy of this policy is business.
We retain our commitment to exible working practices, which available on the Companys website at www.
com we believe gives us the edge in retaining experienced and well-trained staff.
We recognise the importance of excellent store management and in order The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and to develop a strong succession depth we have launched the Store Manager safety but that managers and supervisors have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on the directors of each of the Companys businesses and the Group Finance Director, John Warren, is specically tasked with keeping the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy and ensuring that suitable support is available to the businesses.
14 WH Smith PLC 15 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
