Operating review 40 years ago, in 1964, a small Yorkshire company floated on the London Stock Exchange.
In its first year as a public limited company, it had sales of 2.5m and pre-tax profits of 232,000.
It was a niche manufacturer of ingredients based on renewable natural resources, sold globally, mainly to the Personal and Health Care markets.
Its lifeblood was innovation and dynamic marketing.
It was called the Croda Organisation Ltd.
It is now much bigger, much more successful and has a slightly different name Croda International Plc.
In 1964 Croda was a UK manufacturer with large exports and a nascent overseas network.
Today, we are still heavily committed to the UK but half our employees work overseas and the global technical sales and marketing network is the envy of our competitors.
Then, we were a small player in many markets, selling a range of oleochemical based products.
Now, we are a large player in a few markets, selling a range of truly differentiated specialities based mainly on oleochemicals.
This strong progress up the value chain has produced the excellent results for 2004.
Sales on continuing operations were up by 4% 10% in constant currency and pre-tax profits by over 16%.
In spite of a plethora of raw material cost increases, we maintained the strong margin performance of recent years.
We were also affected by the weakness of the US dollar, which reduced our reported profits.
We continued to focus the innovation skills of the Company on our chosen markets and launched a record number of new products.
Products which add value for our many customers worldwide.
We also continued our drive for cash generation, in parallel with ongoing investment in new plants and processes which will contribute to our future success.
Mike Humphrey Operating review 05 Group Chief Executive Of all Croda companies, none has a more successful history of innovation and creative chemistry than Croda Inc, USA, particularly in the field of Personal Care.
In June 2004, the company opened its new Headquarters and Innovation Center, which includes the Synthesis Laboratory where innovation begins, the Application Laboratory where innovation is applied, various claims testing areas validating innovative performance through to the training area preparing the innovators of tomorrow.
Innovation and Croda Crodas unique flexabrasion apparatus measures the anti-breakage properties of individual hair strands Sales in the UK from continuing businesses were up by almost 3%, with sales in the rest of Europe effectively flat compared to 2003.
It was a mixed performance, with very good progress in France and Poland, offset by weaker markets in Germany, Italy and Spain.
This is not wholly surprising after the excellent growth in our total European sales in 2003.
After a relatively poor 2003, sales in the Americas bounced back with a vengeance.
Sales in the USA were up 7% in Sterling: in US dollars they were up a creditable 19%.
In the rest of the Americas growth was even higher, with sales up by nearly 14% in Sterling terms.
All countries grew, with more notable increases in Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela.
In Asia we saw a more heterogeneous picture.
Sales from continuing businesses were up by over 10% in Sterling and there was especially strong growth in Japan, China and Thailand.
Sales in the Middle East were flat, mainly due to the ongoing conflict in the region.
Sales in Africa and Australasia were also relatively disappointing.
06 Operating review Innovation is the spirit of ingenuity that drives us forward Many of the worlds leading hair care products contain Crodas naturally derived specialities Once again there was good growth in Personal Care.
Our sales into Health Care grew very strongly.
In Plastics Additives, we saw reduced sales volumes but a welcome return of margin, as a series of price increases reversed the dismal trend of recent years.
The process of restructuring the portfolio is almost complete.
During 2004, we sold our small rock anchor business in Australia, which left Croda businesses outside the UK entirely focused on speciality oleochemicals for the first time in nearly 40 years.
I am delighted to report that once again our SAP rollout programme was a resounding success.
Our Singapore operations went live in quarter two, Crodarom went live in quarter four and our large and complex operations in North America followed suit in January 2005.
It is a credit to all involved that they were all virtually problem free.
This bodes well for our remaining manufacturing units, Sederma and Japan, who go live in 2005 and 2006 respectively.
We maintained our strong emphasis on cash generation and finished the year with gearing below 10% even after buying over 6m of shares into treasury.
We also increased our emphasis on R&D and our global sales and marketing network.
We grew the teams in our chosen areas of focus, launched many new products and gained excellent new business in all areas.
Operating review 07 Innovation and technology Innovation often begins in the laboratory, where art meets science and ideas become reality.
Innovation can be revolutionary, even risky, but this must be weighed against the need to grow and change.
Consequently, developments must be carefully assessed and evaluated before making the technological leap to large scale production, where innovation also plays a key role.
Innovation led to the development of our unique Super Refining process, attaining new levels of product purity.
Innovation is enshrined in our commitment to produce purer, safer products, employing cleaner, more efficient and environmentally friendly processes.
Innovation has made us a world leader.
We increased our capital expenditure around the globe.
We successfully commissioned a substantial expansion of our lipids plant at Leek.
We brought on stream an exciting new plant at Rawcliffe Bridge to improve both quality and capacity for high value lanolin derivatives.
We expanded capacity in Brazil, fide-bottlenecked parts of our Singapore plant and continued the radical rebuild and expansion of our Mill Hall facility in the USA.
Sederma successfully completed a substantial expansion of its operating facilities near Paris.
We have more plans for upgrades and capacity additions across nearly all our units in 2005.
08 Operating review Innovation has made us a world leader Oleochemicals The core oleochemical specialities business performed strongly in 2004.
On a continuing operations basis, it now represents 94% of Group turnover and trading profit.
The continuing focus on value over volume produced a trading profit increase of over 11% on a sales increase of just under 5%.
The record margin of 17.9% proves that it is a true speciality business with pricing power.
This margin was achieved despite a number of raw material and utilities cost increases, together with a particularly unfavourable currency environment.
We continue to outperform in our major market, Personal Care.
The 2004 2003 Actives businesses, especially Sederma, achieved significant progress Turnover m 274.0 261.6 across the world, with sales of new functional products growing strongly.
Trading profit m 49.0 44.0 Important new product launches in all areas of Personal Care from all of Margin % 17.9 16.8 our operating companies should help to underpin future growth.
Capital employed m 188.4 187.1 Return on capital % 26.0 23.5 Health Care sales grew strongly once again and, with new capacity available, this business has a strong platform for progress.
None of the major pharmaceutical projects has yet contributed, but further steps towards launch have been made by a number of our customers, especially Tillotts, where Phase III clinical trials are well underway on the treatment for Crohns disease.
We also see some excellent longer term opportunities for Medilan in wound treatment.
Operating review 09 Croda was formed some eighty years ago as the result of one mans idea that of Mr Dawe to make lanolin backed up by another mans capital Mr Crowe.
A simple idea, a simple process but together, innovative thinking and creative chemistry were a potent formula which soon led the Company into new products and markets.
Today there is no better example of innovation successfully translated into commercial reality than the products from our French subsidiary, Sederma.
Through relentless creativity, they have developed a unique and exciting range of actives: functional ingredients used in many of the worlds best known skin care, hair care and anti-ageing products.
The Home Care business grew strongly.
The demand for innovation by our customers in this area is increasing rapidly.
This was an historically conservative customer base, but Innovation margin pressure from the major supermarkets has triggered a step change.
Many more new functional products are being launched, highlighting perceivable benefits.
A good example is the increase in sales of the Coltide range of proteins for fabric conditioning.
and products It is also pleasing to report a stronger performance in Plastics Additives in a firmer global pricing environment.
Croda Food Services had a record year for both sales and profits.
The European operations coped well with flat macroeconomic conditions in major markets and a difficult currency situation, especially in relation to the US dollar.
We increased output at all our European sites.
R&D was focused and successful, and the sales operation delivered.
The USA really bounced back from the disappointments of 2003 and produced excellent growth.
The rest of the Americas were even better.
Again, new plant in Brazil and the USA, combined with a new North American headquarters and technical centre in Edison, New Jersey, gave impetus to our performance in these exciting markets.
In Asia, we expanded strongly and improved both the number and quality of our technical marketing and sales people.
Output increased again from the Singapore plant and new product development accelerated at our plant in Shiga in Japan.
China continues to be the engine of growth for the region and our sales into this important country are more than keeping pace.
Our customer base continues to change and grow.
However, in spite of further major merger activity amongst our clients, no one customer globally represents more than 3% of our total turnover.
In fact, our top ten customers represent less than 15% of turnover.
Olay Regenerist, the number one US anti-ageing product, contains Matrixyl from Sederma, which helps to erase wrinkles and regenerate the skins appearance A unique and exciting range of actives Other 2004 2003 Results in this sector were mixed, but on the whole it was a very good performance Turnover m 17.1 18.2 from these smaller businesses.
The margin is a little misleading, as it is flattered by the Trading profit m 3.1 2.2 inclusion of our share of the excellent profits from our associate, Baxenden Chemicals.
Margin % 18.1 12.1 Capital employed m 13.3 13.2 The fall in sales was due to the continued withdrawal of Seatons from low margin, Return on capital % 23.3 16.7 commodity business.
Seatons had an excellent year and is now a very successful and profitable unit.
Croda Application Chemicals did well in very difficult markets, showing a welcome move forward in profit on a slight fall in sales.
During the year we sold Celtite, our rock anchor business in Australia and completed the sale of our Fire Fighting Chemicals business in Europe.
Their results are reported under discontinued operations.
Operating review 11 Innovation is not just about products and processes: it is about people.
The technologists who create and make our products: the Innovation sales and marketing teams whose commitment and creativity fuel worldwide sales: the support teams whose desire to change, improve and implement the latest systems and technologies all and people contribute to the Croda success story.
In turn, innovation is rewarded through company initiatives such as the Ideas Bank, whereby we make a cash award for ideas that, for example, reduce costs or improve quality, or the 1% Club, whereby employees are given paid leave to get involved in voluntary work in the community, part of a wider initiative spearheaded by a partnership with Business in the Community.
Summary This was a year of good progress for all our teams across the globe.
Croda is robust, dynamic and full of optimism that we can deal with the challenges of the future as well as we have dealt with the challenges of the recent past.
Our people and our products are terrific and our corporate intellectual capital is second to none in our markets.
Although we will maintain our focus on suitable acquisitions, we are confident in our ability to grow organically.
To accelerate this process, we have allocated substantial funds to a new internal venture Enterprise Technologies.
Dr Keith Layden is leading this bold move to bring in new technology to the Group.
We can and we will strive to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
If youve got a Innovation is rewarded good idea dont keep it to yourself?
through initiatives such as the Ideas Bank I mentioned it was 40 years since Croda became a public company.
I would like to quote from Sir Frederick Woods operating review from the first Annual Report following that event:- It has been in many ways a difficult year and the successful outcome is, therefore, all the more pleasing.
Many of our markets have been more competitive and our raw material supplies have been subject to price variations.
Costs, particularly wages and salaries, continued to rise steadily.
Much valuable time, which could be better spent on constructive tasks, has been taken up in grappling with new regulations and laws.
Growth has been achieved by carefully planned capital expenditure, constant attention to costing, the efforts of an aggressive sales force and a rise in the productivity of our works.
Some of Crodas 2004 intake of graduates meet up at Castleton in Derbyshire for the first of a series of development and training courses which they complete during their first two years with the Company Operating review 13
