Chief Executives review of operations Bluetooth is CSRs first wireless system and we have established a leading position in this rapidly growing market.
During 2004 we launched industrys first single chip IEEE 802.11a, b, g WiFi device specifically targeting mobile applications.
Our outlook for 2005 remains very positive.
2004 was a very successful year for CSR.
The CSR is not just number one in total Bluetooth revenue of $253 million was nearly four times that of design wins with 346 69% of the total in 2004, 5% 2003 and nine times 2002s figure.
Retained profit at more than 2003 but number one in every application.
$62 million and operating cash flow of $36 million Utilising CSRs Bluecore devices in 2004, our were both 20 times greater than the prior year.
customers secured 31 of 56 55% of mobile phones We shipped over 50 million single chip Bluetooth qualified, 77 of 91 85% of headsets, and 10 of 12 devices to achieve a 45% market share compared to 83% of laptops.
CSR had 9 times more design wins 23% in 2003.
CSR increased by 5%, its market share listed than our nearest competitor in 2004. of all design wins in 2004 to secure 69% of all those CSR has deliberately and consistently driven customer end products and modules recorded on the down product cost quarter by quarter with ever smaller industrys Bluetooth SIG website.
The Company chip sizes, lower wafer and assembly costs, improved floated on the London Stock Exchange in early 2004 yields and reduced test times.
Further, we have and, by 31 December, our share price had nearly reduced our customers solution cost by integrating doubled.
We are confident of delivering a strong functionality from the application onto our Bluecore performance in 2005. devices.
The objective is to enable customers to add CSR has demonstrated significant capability in Bluetooth to more of their products and to deny our the design, marketing and manufacture of short range competitors a price umbrella under which to develop a wireless systems.
The initial Bluetooth technical market position.
Our manufacturing is outsourced to specification was published in 1998 when the TSMC and ASE in Taiwan who provide our wafer Company was founded.
The intention of the Bluetooth fabrication, assembly and test, and shipping standard is to support wireless connectivity and capability and with whom we enjoy excellent interoperability between a wide range of electronic relationships.
communication devices through a single compatible Bluetooth is CSRs first wireless system.
From its inception, many of the established intend to engage in other wireless standards where we leaders in the information technology sector declared believe our technical, marketing and manufacturing their intent to enter the business and a number of strengths can be used to our advantage.
In November other companies were founded to develop integrated 2004 we launched our first WiFi product, UniFi.
This circuits to participate in this new market.
product is the industrys first single chip device for Our Company has now emerged as the clear mobile applications requiring the IEEE 802.11 a, b, g leader in Bluetooth and this is testament to the standards.
The first silicon received is fully functional excellence, hard work, and dedication of all CSRs and has already been sampled to lead customers with employees.
It is significant that the core design teams whom we are working to secure design wins in of radio, computer, and software engineers that embedded applications.
founded CSR have now been working together I am pleased to report that on 15 March 2005, under the same roof for over 10 years developing we completed the acquisition of Clarity Technologies, wireless systems.
This is an exciting acquisition A founding principle of the Company has been to for us.
Clarity is a leading provider of software and be first to market with all features of each generation services for improving the audio quality and of the Bluetooth specification.
We have successfully performance of voice-based communications systems executed this strategy throughout the past 6 years to and products.
Not only does Clarity give us access to the present day.
Today, through our fourth generation leading customers in the US automotive sector but its product BlueCore 4, CSR is the only company in the patented software will give us a key competitive world to be shipping in volume the industrys latest advantage in audio, which we believe will continue specification, Bluetooth v2.0 plus EDR, which was to be the largest Bluetooth application.
Through our design centres and field application The Bluetooth market is projected to grow from 140 engineers, CSR provides local support to customers in million units in 2004 to 250 million units in 2005. the major market areas of Asia Pacific, Europe, Japan, We believe CSRs design win and unit market share and North America.
of 69% and 51% respectively in the fourth quarter of CSR provides solutions for our customers 2004 position us well to grow in 2005. product requirements not just chips.
Our comprehensive service includes integrated circuits with hardware variants that segment the market by application, core software, software development kits and reference platforms and customised application software that allow our customers to differentiate their own products.
The support we provide our customers has John Hodgson resulted in CSRs technology being adopted by over Chief Executive Officer 450 customers world wide.
We are proud to count amongst our customers the major suppliers in each of the markets we address.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 07
