Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 5 Operational review Consumer Foods The Consumer Foods division comprises Dairy Crests business with retailers, including our share of the Yoplait Dairy Crest joint venture.
Turnover increased by 8% to 880.3 million 2003 814.8 million reflecting the full year benefit from St Ivel Spreads as well as improved branded sales volumes in Yoplait Dairy Crest.
Operating profit, before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, grew by 16% to 72.2 million 2003 62.4 million with operating margin increasing from 7.7% to 8.2%.
This reflected the strong performance of the spreads business and the improved performances from liquid products and Yoplait Dairy Crest, offset by a decline in profitability of the cheese business.
8am Clover, the UKs biggest selling dairy The premium taste spread lorem ipsum spread, melting on hot dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam nonummy toast for breakfast 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Operational review continued Consumer Foods 1Oam Utterly Butterlys national TV ad campaign reaches over 80% of all households with families Spreads The spreads business has performed strongly and is now the Groups biggest profit centre.
A strong branded position in the UK spreads and butter market The St Ivel Spreads business is now fully integrated, with all forecast synergies delivered.
We are reinvesting some of these synergies in increased marketing expenditure to support Market share by volume our successful brand portfolio management.
The benefits of this strategy have been seen in the growth of the key brands during the year.
The strong performance by the spreads Other 7% Dairy Crest 24% business is particularly pleasing given that the cost of vegetable oil rose significantly during the year.
Own label 19% There is a continued consumer trend away from health products and towards taste butter, spreadables and dairy spreads.
Whilst the total butter and spreads market has declined Arla 17% Unilever 33% slightly, taste has grown by 1% in volume and 2% in value year-on-year.
This trend plays to Dairy Crests strengths, as it is the market leader in the taste sector.
Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 17 April 2004 Our two market-leading dairy spreads brands Clover and Utterly Butterly enjoyed combined volume growth of 9% with Utterly Butterly achieving particularly strong growth.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 7 Market share of taste sector This reflected the success of our strategy to differentiate the two brands, whilst maintaining Clovers price premium and market leading position and growing volumes of by volume Utterly Butterly.
This was achieved with the assistance of new television advertising for Other 13% Dairy Crest 29% both Utterly Butterly and Clover during the year.
Own label The autumn relaunch of St Ivel Gold, with a new recipe and packaging, supported by the 18% first television advertising in four years, was positively received.
This delivered good growth in the second half with volumes up by 20% over the same period last year, the first period Arla 29% Unilever 11% of growth for over 12 years.
We will seek to continue this momentum in the current year with further marketing support.
Country Life continued to perform well with volumes up 19% in block and 9% in Market share of health sector spreadable.
Alcoholic butters and creams have continued to show good growth.
by volume Other spreads brands including Vitalite, Golden Churn, Argento, Carapelli and Willow have Other 5% Dairy Crest 14% all performed broadly in line with our expectations.
This year we are increasing the Own label marketing and promotional activity for Vitalite, although the majority of marketing support 15% will continue to focus on the four main brands: Clover, Utterly Butterly, St Ivel Gold and Country Life.
Unilever 66% Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 17 April 2004 11 am More people choose the relaunched St Ivel Gold in all the major supermarkets 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Operational review continued Consumer Foods With over 30 million packs sold each year, Cathedral City is a firm favourite with all the family and perfect for lunch 1pm Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 9 Cheese As noted in the year-end trading update, the cheese business performed below original Brand share of the UK retail expectations.
cheddar market by volume Following a strong first half performance, volumes of Cathedral City were essentially flat Brands 27% with 1% growth for the full year, although in the key pre-pack sector volumes were up 6%.
The main shortfall occurred because of a disappointing third quarter when the brands price premium was temporarily out of line with the competition and promotional activity was lower than expected.
Subsequent management actions have improved performance.
The brand was on television with new advertising in February and we have been active with promotions.
This has delivered good volume growth in the last 12 weeks compared to the same period last year.
We will continue to support the brand in the current year with increased levels of marketing including further television advertising.
Analysis of cheddar market The new creamery, on our existing site at Davidstow, is currently in the final stage of by volume commissioning and we expect it to be fully operational in the next month.
The new facility Others 12% is the biggest cheese plant of its kind in Europe and is capable of processing up to 55,000 Mild 29% tonnes of cheddar per annum, a significant increase on the old capacity of approximately Extra mature 33,000 tonnes.
This capacity will be brought on stream in line with future growth of 12% branded and added value cheddar, particularly our market-leading brand Cathedral City.
Medium Mature 36% 11% Our Stilton and speciality cheese business achieved a number of business wins in the final quarter of the year which will benefit 2004 05.
We achieved firmer cheese realisations in the second half following challenging market Comparison of sectors conditions in the first six months.
However, this was accompanied by increased raw milk of cheddar market by value m prices going into cheese.
4.8% Cheese prices are currently holding firm and, at the end of March 2004, both Dairy Crests and industry cheese stock levels were at their lowest level for over three years which 347 331 should help underpin realisations in the current year.
However, there may be some uncertainty in the market as CAP reform is implemented.
Consequently, margins in the 7.1% cheese business are expected to remain broadly flat year-on-year.
9.3% 180 9.5% 168 129 118 104 95 03 04 03 04 03 04 03 04 Mild Medium Mature Extra mature Source: TNS Superpanel 52 w e 17 April 2004 3pm Making mature cheddar at Davidstow, Europes biggest and most modern creamery 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Operational review continued Consumer Foods 5pm Packed full of goodness, Petits Filous is the UKs most popular fromage frais and a favourite at teatime Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 11 Frubes sponsorship 7pm is a big hit with the Little League Fresh dairy products The Yoplait brands performed well with volumes increasing by 23%.
This partly reflects a Share of childrens chilled yogurts and desserts market difficult first half in 2002 03 when there was industrial action at Yoplaits plants in France.
Nevertheless the underlying growth trend is still very positive with the fresh dairy products by volume market continuing to show good growth and Yoplait Dairy Crest continuing to increase Yoplait Dairy Other 11% brand share despite considerable competition.
Crest 42% Muller 13% Petits Filous and Frubes again grew strongly and benefitted from increased marketing investment behind the brands including a television advertising campaign.
In addition Yoplait Dairy Crest has launched new television advertising for YOP, the yogurt drink, which Nestle 27% commenced in April 2004 and has been well received.
St Ivel 7% Weight Watchers yogurts and desserts continued to show good growth, with volumes up 27%.
Following the successful launch last June of two new mousse products, a third Share of chilled yogurts flavour, lemon, has now been added to the range.
A Weight Watchers rice dessert has also recently been launched.
and desserts market by volume The brands performance continues to be somewhat offset by the difficulties in retailer Yoplait Dairy own brand yogurts and desserts, where markets were again very challenging.
Other 15% Crest 9% Management continues to consider appropriate actions to improve the profitability of this Nestle part of the business.
10% ROB 27% Muller 31% Danone 8% Source: Information Resources 52 w e 17 April 2004 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Operational review continued Consumer Foods Liquid products Our second super dairy at Severnside has been fully operational for over a year and, along with Chadwell Heath, is delivering improved customer service together with increased efficiencies and reduced levels of wastage.
The performance of the liquid products business has benefitted from these improvements as well as from a better performance in organic milk and from the chilled juice business, before the latter was sold in September 2003.
The retail milk market showed modest growth of around 2% and there were no significant customer gains or losses over the course of 2003 04.
However, we have recently gained additional retailer volumes, commencing during the first quarter, which will benefit the current financial year although this will be largely offset by the loss of the ASDA volume later this year as we announced on 25 May 2004.
We continue to look for profitable opportunities to grow volume.
The organic milk business continues to improve after the difficulties it faced in the first half of 2002 03.
The Rachels organic milk brand under licence from Horizon Organic Dairies delivered strong growth with volumes up 43%.
Time for a glass of cool refreshing 9pm milk Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 13 Frijj, the UKs number 1 fresh flavoured milk drink, is perfect on the go 12am 1am 11pm 2am Frijj, the market leading fresh flavoured milk drink, has benefitted from our marketing efforts leading to an increase in volume of 17%.
The brand has recently been relaunched with redesigned packaging and the addition of two new core flavours.
Our super Potted cream volumes have almost doubled during the year reflecting business wins and dairies work the launch of Select Farm cream for Waitrose.
through the This business is well placed to meet future customer requirements and in future will be cash generative given the completion of the super dairies project.
night to produce the freshest milk for our customers 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Operational review continued Food Services The Food Services division comprises Dairy Crests household milk and dairy ingredients operations.
Turnover decreased by 6% to 481.5 million 2003 511.3 million, reflecting the downsizing of our ingredients business.
Operating profit, before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, decreased by 7% to 32.6 million 2003 35.1 million, reflecting the ongoing decline in our household business, partially offset by an improved performance from our ingredients operations over last year.
The Food Services margin decreased slightly from 6.9% to 6.8%.
Household The household business has performed well during the year and has made a strong contribution to the Groups profit and cash flows.
Underlying doorstep volumes have declined at an annual rate of around 10%, showing a slight improvement over previous years.
As usual, the acquisition programme of small dairies has enabled us to mitigate the impact of the overall market decline, with the result that total volumes have declined by around 6%.
The business performed particularly well over the important Christmas period with non-milk product sales increasing despite the underlying decline in the customer base.
We continue to manage the business to reduce cost through high levels of productivity.
We have also increased service initiatives and have strengthened our canvassing programme which is aimed at maximising customer retention.
Dairy Crest will continue to consider acquisition and other strategic opportunities.
In this context, in conjunction with Express Dairies, we are currently testing a parcel delivery service through one of our London depots.
Ingredients The ingredients business has benefitted from strong markets for butter and skimmed milk powder.
Volumes were lower than last year, following the closure of the butter and powder facility at Chard in July 2003.
These activities have been successfully consolidated at the Severnside super dairy.
This operation is running efficiently and continues to give us the ability to balance our milk supply and to supply leading food manufacturers.
CAP reform will be implemented from 1 July 2004 when the intervention price for butter will fall by 7% and for skimmed milk powder by 5%.
This may lead to some uncertainty over pricing in the ingredients market.
However, the Groups risk exposure to the commodity ingredients market has been significantly reduced.
4am Dedicated milkmen deliver a first class service to our 1.1 million customers
