15 operational review Regional Review All numbers and percentage changes in the following regional review are in constant currency and relate to ongoing operations.
The performance of ongoing operations is calculated after adjusting for the sale of Proxicom and iBridge in the US, FMT in the UK and Software AG and Oracle in Africa.
Africa $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 445,172 365,428 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 27,560 5,413 Operating margin 6.2% 1.5% Net operating assets 89,603 123,603 The African business reported revenue revenues.
Increased demand for core new market opportunities in South Africa.
growth of 7.8%, stable gross margins and networking products and convergence We are targeting further improvements in a sharp recovery in operating profits to solutions pulled through good business in returns from the remaining underperforming US$25.9 million compared to US$1.3 the Advanced Infrastructure cabling operations in the new financial year.
million in the previous financial year.
Customer wins during the period under The demand environment was more Good growth in professional services review included: positive although mixed by sector.
The helped to drive a 17.7% increase inEthiopian Telecoms Corporation, a three public and financial services sectors services revenues.
Managed services year, US$6.6 million contract, providing picked up, but service providers have been revenues, which increased by 12.5%, internet connectivity and hosting, file cutting back on capital expenditure.
We benefited from strong performances from transfer protocol, managed security and were successful in expanding outside of Internet Solutions and Merchants SA.
South Africa, where we won a number of growth in revenues in Merchants SA wasMWeb, a three year, US$15.0 million large contracts.
The conclusion of our driven by a significant new off-shore contract using Internet Solutions MPLS Black Economic Empowerment transaction contract with a US Fortune 100 company.
network and international backbone has improved our competitive position.
Gross margins increased marginally, withSappi, a three year, US$5.5 million Growth in product volumes was offset by lower product margins being offset by network integration and security contract, the impact on prices of Rand strength improved services margins.
including outsourced proxy server, against the US Dollar, and translated into a firewalls, VRAS, Internet connectivity, 6.9% decline in product revenues.
Overheads declined by 13.2% following international MPLS links and hosting.
Our solutions lines of business performed prior year rationalisations and stringentImpala Platinum, a US$2.1 million particularly well, growing revenues by 22%.
This drove the strong contract, including network integration, Security, convergence and data centres recovery in operating profits to US$25.9 security, remote and internet access, and storage all grew strongly and the million compared to a profit of US$1.3 storage area network, backup, storage operating environments and messaging million in FY2003.
and server sizing, desktop standard business performance also improved.
operating environment, Microsoft Active The proposed deregulation of the SA Directory and Microsoft Exchange, fax A number of large contract wins in the telecoms market has created significant and facilities.
enterprise and service provider space opportunities for Internet Solutions to offerAngloGold, a three year, US$2.6 million drove good growth in revenues in Internet voice services to our customer base.
The Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Solutions, our Internet service provider BEE transaction has brought increased Exchange and ISA services solution.
business, which accounted for market knowledge and contacts in theSanlam, a three year, US$5.1 million approximately a quarter of Africas telecoms sector in Africa and opened up VPN Outsource contract.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 16 operational review Asia $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 362,280 328,725 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 6,897 2,187 Operating margin 1.9% 0.7% Net operating assets 174,427 169,310 Datacraft Asia, our subsidiary with strongly on the back of market leading steadily throughout the year, ending at operations in 13 countries across Asia, positions in the financial services and the 1.9%, close to three times up on the prior grew revenues by 10.2% and sustained a call centre industries.
Operating profit was up by 215% to trend of improving operating profitability Hong Kong, Indonesia and New Zealand US$6.9 million.
for the past four reporting periods.
In the Datacraft Asia enters FY2005 in a Enterprise demand was strong and Philippines and Malaysia, a combination stronger position, with both customer and demand in the service provider sector of restructuring benefits and management employee satisfaction surveys showing increased slightly.
changes drove growth and improved significant improvements over 2003.
We The strong performance of our solutions operating profitability.
Japan had a good will continue to focus on generating lines of business was a key growth driver.
H1, experienced some challenges in the profitable growth and cash flows.
A Solutions revenues grew by 70% and now third quarter but recovered well in the continuation of the strong performance in account for 19% of Datacrafts revenues.
India and our drive to turn around the We saw particularly strong demand for our Pleasing progress was made in China in businesses in Korea and China are storage, convergence and CIS solutions H2.
We have enhanced the skills in our expected to help overall group returns.
We as well as good growth in security sales team, have aligned sales to our finished 2004 with the highest backlog for solutions revenues.
Our move into solutions and services focus and are eight quarters and a strong order book operating environments and messaging confident in our new management team.
which makes us optimistic about the solutions started to pay dividends in the In Korea we also have a new outlook for the new financial year.
management team in place and a Customer wins during the period under Technology revenues increased by recovery plan against which we made review included: 11.3%, driven by growth in demand for the some progress in the second half of theQuang Trung Software City, Vietnam, a core network integration products as well year.
In both China and Korea we are multi month, US$3.6 million turnkey IT as by strong demand for Ciscos advanced focused on building our enterprise infrastructure contract including a technologies.
We remain Ciscos number business, particularly in the financial metropolitan area network, a data one partner in Asia and increased our services sector.
centre, VoIP, billing and security systems.
Cisco market share over the year.
The gross margin increased to 16.2%A global investment bank, Japan, a Services revenues increased by 8.4% on from 15.7% in 2003.
A higher proportion three year, US$2.5 million network the back of increased demand for of solutions and advanced technology maintenance contract.
managed services and more long term revenues, combined with being moreHanaro Telecom, Korea, a multi month, annuity business.
Professional services selective in the business that we do, drove US$10.0 million contract to upgrade a revenues also grew, leveraging off better a slight increase in gross margins.
demand for solutions and advanced Overheads increased by 4.4%, which isAssumption University, Thailand, a multi technologies.
We are beginning to see the well below the growth in revenues due to month, US$1.0 million contract to build returns from two years of investing in the the cost cuts implemented in FY2003, but a high speed network for an e-learning right skills and professional services value overheads increased sequentially in H2 centre.
The training services business following targets being exceeded, Globe Telecom, Philippines, a multi was stable.
continued investment in our solutions lines month, US$3.3 million mobile call By country, India was the star performer, of business and the hiring of new sales signaling over IP network system SS7 growing revenues and operating profits skills.
Operating margins increased over IP network.
DIMENSION DATA 17 operational review Australia $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 481,078 380,526 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 14,014 12,431 Operating margin 2.9% 3.3% Net operating assets 81,858 69,021 The Australian business had a good year, Managed services revenues, which driven by continued strength in our growing revenues by 16.0%.
Against the increased by 9.1%, benefited from strong solutions offerings.
backdrop of a stable macro-economic volume growth, offset by pricing pressures environment we gained market share, in a competitive environment.
Customer wins during the period under growing well ahead of the overall market.
review included: We enjoyed good growth from all The distribution business, Express Data, One of Australias top four banks, a customer sectors, but particularly in the also performed well, leveraging off the three year, US$7.8 million contract to Government sector, which is investing in good demand in the network integration provide managed services to over 1,800 new technology and deploying solutions business and following better penetration sites.
Our business of existing clients.
Consolidation of theAustralian Capital Territory ACT mix continued to diversify away from number of Cisco distributors from three to Government, a five year, US$3.8 million service providers and financial services two was also an impetus to growth.
network integration, professional and into the government, health and education Customer satisfaction remains high with managed services contract for a sectors.
Despite industry consolidation, little churn in our quality customer base, Metropolitan Area Network for the ACT Dimension Data maintained its leading and a healthier mix of revenue from Government.
share of the Australian market.
different sectors has reduced our riskUnited Group Limited, a four year, profile.
US$1.8 million contract to design and After little investment since Y2K, FY2004 implement a new core data centre and was a year of technology upgrades, which The overall gross profit margin was stable.
drove an 18.2% growth in technology The services gross margin also increasedAAPT, a one year, US$2.7 million revenues.
Solutions revenues grew by slightly due to higher average hourly rates contract to build a virtual call centre 37.7%.
All solutions areas performed well and improved realisations following better incorporating professional and managed with particularly strong performances from professional services efficiencies.
CIS, convergence and security as we margins in Express Data were in line withA leading Australian telecoms company, increased the penetration of solutions into the prior year.
a three year, US$22.0 million contract to our customer base.
build a network-based virtual call centre An 18.9% increase in overheads was incorporating professional and managed The move to IP-based technology has driven by higher business volumes and services.
been a key growth driver and has pulled performance-linked payments.
In the through demand for security, storage and second half of the year we also invested CIS solutions as well as operating in developing our solutions offerings environment upgrades.
further and expanding our managed services offerings, the benefits of which The strong growth in product revenues are expected to materialise in FY2005.
pulled through professional services Operating profits increased by 3.5%.
engagements, particularly in the second half of the year.
Increased use of The Australian business is in good shape contractors gave us good flexibility and going into the new financial year and we increased sustainability in this business.
expect to deliver another year of growth ANNUAL REPORT 2004 18 operational review Continental Europe $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 438,841 382,123 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 7,353 6,220 Operating margin 1.7% 1.6% Net operating assets 86,473 68,445 The European business reported good The gross margin came off slightly, driven growth in revenues and improved largely by a decline in technology margins operating profitability against a lacklustre in a price-sensitive market, whilst the economic backdrop.
Trading got off to a services margin increased marginally good start with strong demand and a following an improvement in the mix.
positive mood in the first half of the year.
This was offset by a slowdown in the third Overheads were well contained, quarter but the year ended with a strong increasing by 5.0%, which was below performance in the fourth quarter.
The increase was due to investment in new solutions, skills and Revenues increased by 7.2% with services efficiencies as well as by higher technology revenues increasing by 7.5%.
variable costs following the achievement This pulled through growth in both of internal targets in a number of managed and professional services and countries.
Operating income increased by overall service revenues showed growth of 10.2%.
Increased demand for specialised infrastructure solutions and our investment In the new financial year we will continue in convergence, data centre and storage to push strongly into solutions and expect and security offerings drove growth in an improvement in profitability to be driven solutions revenues of 15.5%.
by better performances in Germany and France.
The star performer in Europe was the Netherlands where we signed a number of Customer wins during the period under attractive contracts and enjoyed good review included: growth in convergence solutions.
MarketsEssent Kabelcom, a one year, US$8.6 in Germany and Benelux were flat.
million contract to supply Cisco Hardware volumes came under pressure equipment.
in Luxembourg during H2 but weDeutsches Forschungsnetz, a multi performed well in services and solutions.
year, US$2.4 million network integration Investment in new management and contract for the extension of G-WIN, the solutions is paying dividends in Germany, third generation of the German National where morale has picked up following Research and Education Network.
InSatcom Modena, an 18 month, US$1.8 France, where we now have a stable million MPLS contract to implement a management team, good market network based on Metro Ethernet conditions helped to drive growth in Technology.
UPC, a multi million dollar contract, to Switzerland benefited from a number of upgrade its network to incorporate good security deals.
DIMENSION DATA 19 operational review United Kingdom $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 218,260 205,918 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 12,744 11,010 Operating margin 5.8% 5.3% Net operating assets 55,217 76,274 The UK business performed well, growing businesses.
Advanced Infrastructure Customer wins during the period under revenues by 10.6% and operating profits revenues performed well, following strong review included: by 34.8%.
We saw an upturn in activity demand for intelligent building services.
Isle of Man Government, a five year, and demand during the year, projects US$10.0 million network integration previously on hold were put out to tender Good growth was also achieved in contract to design, implement and and we benefited from a trend away from managed services revenues which support new WAN, LAN and IPT outsourcing towards out-tasking.
The leveraged off the strong performance in infrastructure.
market remained competitive particularly our core network integration business.
Ladbrokes, a rolling, US$2.0 million in the SME space where service providers Revenues in The Merchants Group, which contract to design, implement and continue to be aggressive on price.
accounts for approximately a quarter of support new security infrastructure for the UKs services revenues, declined on-line gaming business.
The UK business, excluding The following a reorganisation of the businessA global engine manufacturer, part of Merchants Group, our managed call which included the appointment of a new an ongoing, US$1.3 million, initial centre operation, performed particularly management team and a reassessment of contract to supply network infrastructure well, gaining market share and growing the strategic focus of the business.
for multiple sites in the UK including revenues by 14.3%.
Revenue benefited network design, supply, implementation from our successful geographic expansion Pressure on product gross margins in a and managed services.
into the Midlands and Scotland and the competitive and price-sensitive market ledA global financial institution, a two year, consolidation of our business in the south to a 0.5% decline in the UKs gross US$2.7 million operational services of England.
A move from a vertical to a margin.
Strong sales of complex outsource contract, based at its Network geographic focus supported by vertical technologies and our ability to wrap Command Centre in London.
consulting expertise, led to an services with our product offerings helped improvement in our engagement process to counteract pressure on prices.
Services and better account management.
Our gross margins increased slightly.
refined value proposition for the SME market drove growth in a number of key Overheads, for the overall UK business, accounts.
increased by only 2.0% following diligent control over costs and helped to drive the Product revenues increased by 13.0% as strong improvement in profitability.
activity in our core network integration market picked up and we saw good Going into the new financial year we have traction in demand for convergence and a clear strategy in place to deliver another storage solutions.
Solutions revenues year of growth.
We will continue to invest increased by 9%.
Services revenues in the high growth solutions areas and are excluding Merchants increased, helped taking on new skills to drive growth in by improved professional services professional services revenues.
Where competencies which led to contract wins possible, we will continue to streamline around our security, operating our operations to be more cost effective.
environments and CIS solutions ANNUAL REPORT 2004 20 operational review United States $'000 FY2004 FY2003 Turnover 416,811 346,051 Operating profit loss before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 4,573 17,058 Operating margin 1.1% 4.9 % Net operating assets 39,689 32,153 The US business recovered strongly in the multinational customers.
Greater traction interim period increased to 1.3% in the year, reporting a 28.8% increase in and returns were achieved in our key second half of the year, leading to a revenues and operating profits of US$3.5 global accounts.
We had good success in margin for the full year of 0.9%.
million compared to losses of US$13.6 penetrating the state, local government million in the prior year.
and higher education sectors and we have We expect another year of good revenue reduced our exposure to the financial growth and a further improvement in the The performance benefited from a pick-up services sector.
We see in the overall demand environment.
After further good opportunities in the solutions being on hold for a number of years, Managed services revenues increased by lines of business and managed services customers started to initiate new IT 62.9%, off a low base, driven by success spaces and are targeting an improvement projects and refresh their existing in the SME space where customers are in the performance of the professional technology.
Increased IT investment in the looking to improve the returns on their IT services business.
financial services sector was a key driver investments.
Professional services of growth and we won a number of quality revenues leveraged off the growth in Customer wins during the period under new customers.
The review included: divesture of Proxicom freed upA large healthcare and pharmaceutical A key driver behind our growth was the management time, lifted the burden of the company, a two year, US$16.0 million success that we had in our solutions lines onerous leases and allowed us to focus managed services contract, working on of business, where revenues increased by on the execution of our core strategy.
a work flow and ticketing program 34%.
We grew market share strongly in deployed on 6,000 network devices over the areas of convergence and security The strong growth in revenues was 4,500 servers.
and performed well in Ciscos advanced complemented by a strong improvement inA large government entity, a US$4.4 technologies.
Traction in the convergence the gross margin.
An improvement in million contract to upgrade and market worked to our advantage as product gross margins was led by a consolidate older storage frames.
Dimension Data is a leader in this space change in the mix.
The services grossThe International Monetary Fund, a in North America.
Our push into the data margin increased, driven by benefits of US$6.0 million contract, to implement a centre and storage market with EMC and scale and operational efficiencies in the new network for the companys into CIS solutions, started to pay managed services business.
headquarters, including 5,500 IPT dividends in the second half of the year.
Overheads were tightly controlled, A large membership provider, a US$3.4 We capitalised on the trend towards increasing by only 8.1%, well below the million contract to upgrade IVR, call shorter and more segmented outsourcing 28.8% growth in revenues.
Following the centre voice infrastructure and software, agreements, working on a number of cost-cutting initiatives started in FY2003 including professional services.
focused engagements and collaborating and strong growth in revenue, we areA large financial institution, a three year, with partners on key accounts.
We also starting to see some operational leverage US$2.9 million managed services and benefited from our market positioning, with coming through.
We reported an operating IPT and IPC Contact Centre contract.
global capabilities and regional presence.
profit of US$3.5 million, reversing the prior This helped us to achieve success both in years US$13.6 million loss.
The operating the SME market as well as with global and margin of 0.3% that we reported at the DIMENSION DATA
