OPERATING REVIEW Paper and Corrugated Packaging Lower profits in Paper were partly compensated for by higher profits in Corrugated Packaging.
Turnover was slightly ahead at 748.9 million acquisition.
Operating margin before FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2002 03: 747.0 million with a fall in exceptional items and amortisation of 2004 2003 Paper being offset by higher Corrugated intangibles was 6.7% 7.1% while return on Turnover 748.9m 747.0m Packaging sales.
Operating profit before average capital employed was 9.6% 10.6%.
Operating profit 50.5m 53.1m exceptional items and amortisation of Market overview Operating margin 6.7% 7.1% intangibles was 50.5 million 53.1 million Industry statistics for calendar year 2003 show with a significant reduction in profits from Year end capital that overall demand by weight for corrugated Paper being partly compensated for by higher employed 657.4m 500.6m board in Europe grew by just 0.5%, reflecting profits in Corrugated Packaging, including Return on average the sluggish economic conditions.
Demand in a contribution of 1.2 million from LINPAC capital employed 9.6% 10.6% Containers in the six weeks from the date of the UK was 0.9% lower, while France and before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles Focus on growth opportunities The Group is developing its business in higher growth segments of the corrugated packaging market such as the home delivery of products, particularly from internet purchases.
8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 Italy were slightly ahead by 0.7% and 1.5%, the European market.
While no more capacity Recovery Notes PRNs, which are issued as is expected to come on stream in 2004, further evidence that packaging has been reprocessed respectively and Poland and Turkey grew in compliance with the UK Packaging Waste capacity additions are expected in 2005: the strongly by 8.3% and 11.5%, respectively.
The government, which did not effect on prices will depend upon future In the first quarter of calendar year 2004, increase recycling targets for 2003, has now market growth and the extent of any further demand in the UK has shown a small amount published rising targets for 2004 to 2008 in rationalisation of uneconomic capacity.
of growth while our other major markets have line with the revised requirements of the EU performed at similar levels to 2003.
Within As a result of the soft demand and the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive.
the UK market for corrugated case materials additional capacity, much of which is There has been some firming of PRN prices CCM, recycled paper continued to gain concentrated on lightweight papers, CCM in calendar year 2004 to date, although they prices fell during 2003.
The resulting squeeze market share against virgin kraftliner and the remain well below recent years average prices.
on paper producers margins was exacerbated imported share of the market was unchanged.
by fluctuations in the cost of recovered paper, Against a background in the CCM market the principal raw material for recycled CCM.
of low European demand growth and some The continuing high level of demand for existing excess capacity, approximately recovered paper in Asia, some of which is 600,000 tonnes of new capacity became being supplied from Europe, is contributing available within the total market of to a modest longer-term structural increase approximately 20 million tonnes.
Although and short-term fluctuations in the price of this new capacity was partly offset by some recovered paper in Europe.
In the UK, the net older capacity being removed, it resulted in cost of our raw material was also adversely Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers.
a destabilisation of selling prices throughout affected by lower demand for Packaging Corrugated packaging cost effective and fully recyclable The Groups operations play a significant role in the corrugated packaging recycling process.
Re-use of the bres in paper packaging minimises waste disposal to landll and reduces the need for virgin wood pulp.
BOXES FILLED DISCARDED AND DELIVERED Consumers, retailers and other businesses Corrugated packaging is used to unpack products and increasingly recycle store, protect and transport a the used packaging.
In the UK, over 60% wide range of products including of paper packaging is now recycled.
fast-moving consumer goods, consumer durables and industrial products.
RECOVERED PAPER COLLECTED Old corrugated cases and other paper are collected from 4.
PAPER CONVERTED retailers and other sources, INTO BOXES sorted and baled ready for CCM is converted into corrugated sale to paper mills.
Severnside board by forming the internal uting Recycling handles around and gluing it between outer liners.
1.3m tonnes of all grades The board is printed, cut, folded and of recovered paper per glued to form boxes that are sold to annum through its network processors distributors.
produces approximately 2.5 billion corrugated boxes per annum.
PAPER FIBRES RECYCLED INTO PAPER Recovered paper is pulped and cleaned to produce a blend of bres that is made into reels of packaging paper corrugated case materials or CCM.
These are cut to size and sold to corrugated packaging plants.
St Regis Paper Company is the UKs largest recycled paper manufacturer.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 9 OPERA OPERATING REVIEW TING REVIEW:: P PA APER AND CORRUGA PER AND CORRUGATED P TED PACKAGING ACKAGING DS Smith Packaging continued its profit improvement despite weak demand, industry overcapacity and price pressure.
Bob McLellan Chief Executive, DS Smith Packaging sheet board, due to intense competition and DS Smith Packaging LINPAC Containers industry over-supply.
We have taken action The Groups UK Corrugated Packaging LINPAC Containers, acquired on 22 March to lower costs and raise efficiencies.
The division, DS Smith Packaging, continued 2004, operated well during the final weeks sheet plants, which convert board into boxes, its profit improvement despite weak demand, of the financial year although profit in performed steadily.
industry over-capacity and price pressure.
April was depressed by higher paper costs.
The continuing focus on higher added value It contributed 18.1 million of sales and The speciality operations advanced through products supported the result, which was also 1.2 million of operating profit to the Group combining better efficiency with providing assisted by the addition of the business from result for the year.
In late April, it raised their customers with product innovation and three plants acquired from Macfarlane Group its box and corrugated sheet prices in an flexible service.
The Lockerbie, Belper and in October 2003.
One of these plants and attempt to recover increased costs.
Neath plants, which specialise in high quality a DS Smith sheet plant were subsequently printed product, made encouraging progress.
The heavy duty business, Tri-Wall, performed reasonably well given the difficulties The four conventional plants, which are experienced by its industrial manufacturing operated as an integrated group to optimise customer base.
service to their customers, had mixed results.
Of these, the Fordham plant made good Results in April were affected by higher progress and achieved record output levels, paper costs following the Europe-wide but the Livingston plant suffered from increase in CCM prices.
Corrugated prices continued weak demand from Scottish were increased in mid-April with a view manufacturing industry.
to recovering increased input costs.
Margins were severely squeezed at our sheet feeding operations, which supply corrugated Speciality products Paper is printed before Adding value High quality printed packaging conversion into board to produce decorative boxes must meet the demanding requirements of leading at DS Smith Packaging, Belper.
10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 Kaysersberg Packaging achieved an excellent result due to strong progress in the French, Polish, Italian and Turkish Corrugated Packaging businesses.
Jean-Paul Loison Chief Executive, Kaysersberg Packaging profits advanced well due to focusing Kaysersberg Packaging more on selling converted boxes rather The Groups continental European Paper and than corrugated sheet and developing sales Corrugated Packaging division, Kaysersberg of litho-laminated and other higher value Packaging, achieved an excellent result due to products.
A new green field factory is strong progress in the French, Polish, Italian planned to open in late 2005 at Kutno, and Turkish Corrugated Packaging businesses.
west of Warsaw, which will allow us The French paper mills increased their to grow our activities in Poland further.
productivity and sales volume, but margins were squeezed, despite successful cost Action taken to raise operational performance reduction initiatives, by the fall in selling and increase market share enabled the prices and fluctuating recovered paper prices.
Turkish business, Copikas, to reduce its loss The French Corrugated Packaging operations substantially, despite selling prices being benefited from the lower paper prices, good under pressure.
cost management and their focus on higher Our associate operation in the Ukraine, added value products.
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging In Italy, Toscana Ondulati further increased Mill, advanced strongly helped by a major its market share and profits with the help of programme of investment.
In December its new Lari factory, which has strengthened 2003 the business secured a $14 million its position in key market sectors.
loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to help Sales at the Polish business, DS Smith Polska, were held back by capacity constraints, but finance further growth.
Growth opportunities Italy Toscana Ondulati has benefited from recent Poland Expansion of local industry and retail major investment.
It supplies high quality boxes for distribution is increasing the demand for higher the wine industry and other market sectors.
value corrugated packaging at DS Smith Polska.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 11 OPERATING REVIEW: PAPER AND CORRUGATED PACKAGING profits were substantially below those of the previous year due to a combination of lower selling prices, the uctuating cost of recovered paper, higher energy costs and lower PRN prices.
Don Coates Chief Executive, St Regis Paper warehousing.
The other paper mills also St Regis Paper Company raised volumes, and record production was St Regis increased its production and sales achieved at Sudbrook and Taplow.
volumes through continuing emphasis on higher efficiency and improved process The Severnside collection and recycling control.
Sales to the UK market increased business continued to expand, although slightly, while exports moved ahead more results were affected by fluctuations in the strongly, assisted in the early months of price of recovered paper.
It invested further the year by the strengthening of the euro in its collection infrastructure, both in terms against sterling.
Profits were substantially of equipment and collection depots.
It added below those of the previous year due to one new depot during the year and, since the a combination of lower selling prices, the year end, has acquired the five depots of BPB fluctuating cost of recovered paper, higher Recycling, subject to approval from the energy costs and lower PRN prices.
The Kemsley paper mill, which accounts for over 50% of St Regis paper production, achieved record output, with machine efficiencies well above the previous year due to continuing process optimisation.
A new warehouse was commissioned in autumn 2003, which improved customer service and reduced costs by virtually eliminating the use of third party Operational progress Severnside Recycling continues to develop its collection of recovered paper from a wide range of businesses including major supermarket chains.
It offers a one-stopshop solution for managing companies entire recycling and waste disposal needs.
In tough market conditions, St Regis raised its paper output and sales through increased machine efficiency.
Nearly 30% of sales were exported, mainly to continental Europe.
12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 Plastic Packaging We made profit progress in our two principal business sectors but the divisions overall performance was held back by the results of two small operations.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Sales and profits advanced 2004 2003 well in returnable transit Turnover 208.7m 195.0m packaging.
Operating profit 15.2m 14.7m Operating margin 7.3% 7.5% Year end capital employed 136.5m 136.0m Return on average Adrian Whiteld Chief Executive, capital employed 10.7% 11.5% DS Smith Plastics before amortisation of intangibles DS Smith Plastics turnover grew by 7% to 208.7 million.
Operating profit before amortisation of intangibles was 3% ahead at 15.2 million and operating margin before amortisation of intangibles was 7.3% 7.5%.
Return on average capital employed was 10.7% 11.5%.
The division made profit progress in its two principal business sectors, liquid packaging and dispensing and returnable transit packaging RTP, but its overall performance was held back by the results of two small operations.
Polymer prices had no significant impact on results during the year as a whole.
Sales and profits advanced well in RTP principally due to a strong performance in injection moulded bottle crates.
Increased crate demand from the brewing sector was stimulated by product innovation and new A leader in dispensing Worldwide Dispensers is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of high quality injection moulded taps and dispensing tments.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 13 OPERATING REVIEW: PLASTIC PACKAGING environmental regulations in Germany which Advanced crate technology encourage the use of returnable bottles.
Demand for other RTP products was patchy, DW Plastics produces custom designed and engineered crates to suit each customers needs but action to control costs and improve and brand image.
Products include innovations efficiency benefited the results.
such as in-mould labelling and soft touch handles.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, the bagin-box business in Europe performed well, assisted by the Zewathener business in Germany acquired in 2002.
Margins were affected by the particularly strong growth in the relatively lower margin wine bag business.
Tap sales and margins were affected by increased competitor activity in detergent taps.
Action has been taken to increase the rate of profit growth by focusing on driving sales, cost reduction and productivity improvements.
Of the two smaller businesses that impacted the overall result, our specialist coating business suffered a reduction in exports to Asia and the Middle East due to SARS and the Iraq War: costs have been cut and sales are being rebuilt.
The other is a developing business, StePac, which specialises in Bag-in-box packaging meeting customers needs worldwide modified atmosphere packaging for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables DS Smith supplies all elements of bag-in-box packaging and systems.
Customers in Europe, the USA and Asia-Pacic select from our total offering to achieve the optimal liquid packaging solution for their product.
in transit: we have invested to develop the Usage of bag-in-box packaging is growing for a wide range of liquids, including fruit juice, dairy business and are focused on growing sales.
products, wine, soft drinks and water.
HIGH QUALITY TAPS AND DISPENSING FITMENTS Including taps, caps, bungs, valves and tube connectors to dispensing machines.
MADE-TO-MEASURE PLASTIC BAGS Produced from a range of plastic materials single and multi-layer with capacities from 1 litre to 1,000 litres.
Each bag is tted with a COMPREHENSIVE plastic gland for lling and RANGE OF BOXES to hold the tap or other Designed and manufactured dispensing tment.
to provide high shelf impact for consumer products or strong efficient solutions for industrial use.
BESPOKE FILLING SYSTEMS Customised machines for aseptic or non-aseptic lling of bags.
14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Ofce Products Wholesaling 2004 2003 Turnover 498.8m 495.6m Spicers substantial advance in profit Operating profit 21.7m 16.2m Operating margin 4.4% 3.3% was achieved against a background of Year end capital continuing soft demand for traditional employed 123.7m 122.3m Return on average ofce products across Europe.
capital employed 18.2% 12.7% before amortisation of intangibles Spicers improvement in profitability was principally attributable to further strong progress in the UK.
Bill Armstrong Chief Executive, Spicers Spicers sales increased by 1% to 498.8 million with higher sales in Germany and Spain being partly offset by declines elsewhere in Europe.
Operating profit before amortisation of intangibles increased by 34% to 21.7 million and operating margin before amortisation of intangibles increased from 3.3% to 4.4%.
Return on average capital employed advanced from 12.7% to 18.2%.
Spicers substantial advance in profit was achieved against a background of continuing soft demand for traditional office products across Europe, with consumers being more inclined to buy lower specification, or ownbrand products.
There is growing evidence, in most markets, of confidence recovering and consumption stabilising.
Demand for electronic office supplies EOS continues to grow but the low margins on the highest volume EOS products have deteriorated further.
Products backed by service Spicers improvement in profitability was Spicers UK catalogue was developed principally attributable to further strong after extensive consumer market research.
progress in the UK as a result of the Redesigned for clarity, it groups the programme of operational initiatives started 18,000 product lines in easy-to-use in 2002.
Service levels to customers were sections.
raised further and significant cost reductions DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 15 OPERATING REVIEW: OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING achieved.
The regional distribution centre The Spanish business, launched in 2002, RDC network was restructured with the achieved strong sales growth in the year and a closure of the Nottingham RDC.
highly successful sell-in of the 2004 catalogue augurs well for a further major advance in In France, market conditions proved sales in the year ahead.
Spicers new Italian particularly challenging but Spicers business business will be launched in November 2004. improved its profitability by cutting costs and The purpose-built head office and first RDC managing its margins better.
Spicers Germany at Castel San Giovanni, just south of Milan, grew steadily throughout the year and is now occupied and intense preparation is generated a positive cash flow.
Results in underway to ensure a successful start-up.
the first half were substantially affected by a limited number of bad debts but it traded Leading brand Spicers 5 Star range of over at around break-even in the second half.
1,400 essential ofce products is backed with an extensive marketing programme.
Spicers service is key Spicers eight UK regional distribution centres provide fast, efficient delivery to their customer base of ofce products dealers.
They offer same-day delivery or an overnight, next-day service.
Orders received before 7.00 pm will be fullled to reach the dealer in time for them to deliver the goods to their customer the following morning.
Over 95% of orders are delivered on time and in full.
CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE Orders are received from customers by telephone GOODS IN or on-line through SPICERlinkWeb.
The customer 700 product lines are delivered services team responds promptly and exibly to per day from Spicers central dealer enquiries and requests.
PRECISE ORDER FULFILMENT Picking accuracy and quality of delivery are measured to ensure high service standards are maintained.
14,000 PRODUCT LINES IN STOCK Stock levels of Spicers own 5 Star brand and other branded products are closely managed to maintain high order fullment levels.
FOCUS ON CUSTOMER GOODS OUT SATISFACTION Peak time for order despatch to Over 10,000 product lines are dealer customers is 4.00 am to picked each day to satisfy customer reach them before 9.00 am.
Peak time for processing orders is 6.00 pm 11.00 pm.
16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 Powerful brands John Dickinsons top stationery brands offer quality, style and innovation.
Black n Reds brand awareness and sales have increased in continental Europe and the USA.
Ofce Products Manufacturing FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Sales volumes were 2004 2003 signicantly lower, Turnover 48.0m 59.7m particularly for Operating profit 1.4m 4.0m branded products.
Operating margin 2.9% 6.7% Year end capital employed 13.7m 13.8m Return on average capital employed 9.8% 23.1% Richard Evans Chief Executive, John Dickinson John Dickinsons sales were 48.0 million particularly for branded products, while 59.7 million and operating profit was imports continue to exert pressure on prices.
1.4 million 4.0 million : the previous Growth was achieved in envelopes for direct years result included sales of 6.3 million and transactional mail, while the Black n and operating profit of 0.6 million from the Red brand advanced well, with encouraging Spicer Hallfield business which was sold in signs for its development in the US market.
Operating margin was 2.9% Action has been taken to strengthen the 6.7% and return on average capital divisions marketing and sales activity.
have been further reduced in production and Sales volumes were significantly lower, by management structure rationalisation.
Growth opportunity Latest technology is used Smart products Black n Reds Digital Notebook to produce quality printed envelopes for direct mail used with a digital pen enables text and sketches and other uses where corporate image is important.
to be quickly downloaded to a PC.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 17
