EMI Music Publishing Operating review EMI Music Publishing has once again delivered strong results in a challenging environment, demonstrating the high quality of our song catalogue and our ability to identify and develop new uses for our songs.
The business produced sales of 397.9m for the full year, down 0.8% from the prior year.
The decline was entirely driven by exchange, particularly the weakening US Dollar, and exchange overall had a negative impact.
Excluding currency effects, EMI Music Publishing generated sales growth of 1.1%.
Songs contributing to this years success included those from songwriters such as Norah Jones, Alicia Keys, Pink, matchbox twenty, N E R D, Sean Paul, Enrique Iglesias, Jay-Z, Cathy Dennis, Busted and Sting.
Operating profit EBITA before central costs was 105.5m compared to 107.1m in the prior year.
As with sales, the decline was attributable to exchange.
Operating margin at constant currency was 26.5% compared with 26.7% in the prior year as Martin Bandier variations in mix offset the positive effects of tight cost control.
After central costs, Chairman and CEO reported EBITA was 101.9m, down from 103.6m.
Excluding the effects of EMI Music Publishing currency movements, operating profit after central costs rose by 0.7%.
Growth in sales on a constant currency basis was achieved from developing revenue streams and by garnering additional uses of the songs in our publishing catalogue.
Given the ongoing decline in the global recorded music industry, EMI continued to drive growth from performance and synchronisation income while also advancing the use of songs in digital applications such as ring tones.
Mechanical royalties EMI continued to reduce its reliance on mechanical revenue, which is primarily derived from the sales of recorded music.
For the first time, mechanical revenue was less than 50% of total publishing revenues.
Our mechanical royalties declined year-on-year by 4.4% at constant currency, less than the global recorded music industry decline of 5.6%.
This continued outperformance of the industry demonstrates the successful creative focus of the business, resulting from our strategy of signing talented songwriters, singer songwriters and producer songwriters across genres and territories coupled with our ability to bring about re-recordings of songs from our existing catalogue.
Music publishing turnover Music publishing operating profit m m 416.4 401.2 397.9 107.8 390.7 105.0 103.5 101.9 354.0 95.5 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 10 Performance income Performance revenues, earned from commercial uses such as live concerts, radio, television, shops, pubs or sporting events, grew 3.5% at constant currency.
This type of royalty income has achieved growth in each of the past six years and now represents almost 26% of worldwide revenues.
This global growth is propelled by our strong share of top-playing songs, an increase in media outlets and channels, as well as improved efficiency in the collection of publishing revenues by the national societies.
matchbox twenty Jessica Simpson Synchronisation royalties Synchronisation revenues, which are generated from the use of songs in audiovisual works such as advertisements, television programmes, films, computer games and in mobile phones, grew strongly by over 19% at constant currency from the prior year.
Synchronisation income contributed over 16% of worldwide music publishing revenues.
EMI has been especially aggressive in driving synchronisation revenue by focusing resources on meeting the needs of the creators and music producers in developing their audiovisual works.
We have been particularly successful at building this revenue stream in the United States and have begun expanding this approach to our operations Norah Jones in other parts of the world.
EMIs songs are also used in a range of other forms such as merchandise, print, karaoke and theatre productions.
We Will Rock You and Mamma Mia continued to be successful shows in the US and UK, and opened recently in other countries such as Spain and Australia.
Rod Stewarts Tonights The Night opened in London during the year.
Songs licensed by EMI feature in all of these productions.
Digital We saw a strong increase in the use of our songs in digital applications during Cathy Dennis Enrique Iglesias the financial year, with digital music contributing over 7m to our revenues, up more than 130% from the prior year.
Most of this revenue was generated from mobile products such as ring tones, with the contribution from other new formats, such as downloads, so far remaining small.
Revenues from digital music are classified amongst the various income types mechanical, performance, synchronisation, and other and the classification often varies amongst countries, depending on the varying roles of the collecting societies in these new uses.
Music publishing Revenue sources % Mechanical Other 49.9 7.9 Jay-Z Synchronisation 16.3 Performance 25.9 Counting Crows 11 Regional overview Our North American business grew both sales and operating profit on a local currency basis.
The three primary income categories mechanical, performance and synchronisation all achieved growth in this region for the full year.
Synchronisation income grew particularly strongly as vehicles such as the Music Spa and the business-to-business internet site enabled better marketing to creators of audiovisual works.
Alicia Keys Ludacris In the UK, early market share gains during the year were eroded in the fourth quarter limiting full-year sales growth.
In Continental Europe, our Italian business generated good growth in all income types.
Germany and France performed well despite the significant declines in the recorded music industry in those countries.
Our Japanese business delivered growth in both performance and synchronisation revenues that more than offset a decline in mechanical income.
Other initiatives During the year, we undertook a reorganisation programme with the objectives of both increasing efficiency and lowering costs.
Key components include headcount reduction and the decommissioning of systems.
The cost in the year was 6.6m, 4.9m of which was taken in the first half.
The cost has been reported as an operating exceptional item.
This programme provided savings of 2.7m in the financial year just ended.
Pink In the current financial year, we announced a new management structure for our operations in Continental Europe and a strengthening of the leadership team overseeing the region.
The acquisition of a further 30% stake in Jobete was completed in April 2003 and the final 20% stake was acquired in April 2004.
EMI purchased the initial 50% stake in Jobete in 1997.
We are delighted to now own 100% of this extraordinary catalogue which contains more than 15,000 classic Motown standards.
The catalogue has some of the best-known songs of the 1960s and 1970s such as I Heard it Through the Grapevine, My Girl, Stop!
In the Busted Sting Name of Love, You are the Sunshine of My Life and Ill Be There.
Outlook For the current financial year, we expect to see continuing pressure on mechanical royalties due to the anticipated declines or softness in certain regions of the global recorded music industry.
Regardless, we continue to exploit aggressively our impressive catalogue of songs whether they be current hits or the classics created years ago in a range of commercial uses.
Incubus Janet Jackson Alan Jackson 12
