EMI Music Operating review In the year ended 31 March 2004, EMI Music continued on the path of improved performance.
Operating margins strengthened even with ongoing expenditures to improve creative output and to develop new revenue streams and IT systems.
EMIs share of global recorded music industry sales increased to 13.2% from 12.7%.
North America generated particularly good gains in sales and profitability.
The backdrop to EMIs performance was a decline in the global recorded music industry of 5.6%.
These industry figures, compiled by the worldwide recorded music association, IFPI, now include music video, an area that has generated attractive growth.
Excluding music video, the global industry for audio products saw a decline of 7.8%.
The rate of decline moderated over the year with the global recorded music market including music video products falling by over 9% in the first half and by less than 3% in the second half.
The most significant improvements came in North America, Alain Levy which grew in the second half, and Japan, which only declined slightly in the Chairman and CEO second half.
However, the industry declines in Continental Europe, South East EMI Music Asia, and Latin America remained severe throughout the year.
Within this environment, EMI generated sales of 1,722.8m down 2.0% at constant currency.
Currency effects were negative overall, resulting in a sales decline of 2.9% on a reported basis.
A range of albums contributed to the sales success.
Our two top-selling albums came from Norah Jones, whose second album Feels Like Home, released globally in February, sold over 7.5m units, while her first album, Come Away With Me, generated sales of over 5.5m units in the financial year just ended and has now sold over 17m units.
Coldplays second album, A Rush Of Blood To The Head, produced sales of almost 3.5m in the year just ended to reach over 9m copies sold since release.
Two releases, one a CD and one a DVD, from Robbie Williams, centred around his spectacular Knebworth performance and European concert tour, together sold over 3.5m units.
Janet Jackson and Japans Hikaru Utada both released albums at the end of March and each sold well over 2m copies in the year just ended.
The album Jackpot from Americas Chingy sold over 3m units in the financial year while albums from Stacie Orrico and Joss Stone each sold over 1.5m copies.
Artists such as The Thrills, Yellowcard, Lisa Marie Presley and Maksim also had strong releases with their early EMI albums.
The past years focus on expanding our DVD music video offerings met with great success.
An array of new products from artists such as Coldplay, Robbie Williams, Queen, The Beatles, John Lennon, Herbert Grnemeyer and Vasco Rossi stimulated substantial growth from this new format.
Operating profit EBITA before central costs was 163.0m compared to 166.4m Norah Jones in the prior year.
At constant currency, EBITA declined by only 2.4m or 1.4%.
Feels Like Home After central costs, reported EBITA was 147.4m, down from 151.1m.
7.6m Come Away With Me 5.7m North America One of the strongest achievements of the period was the continued improvement in our operations in North America.
Our approach to artist development and organisational structure has been effective, with this region now delivering attractive operating margins.
Industry conditions were also a contributing factor to the stronger performance.
The North American market improved during the financial year with the first half declining by almost 7% while the second half experienced growth of over 4%.
Our share of the North American industry increased to 10.5% for the full year, a gain of 0.5 percentage points.
Coldplay Chingy A Rush Of Blood Jackpot Within our North American operations, Capitol Records posted a strong increase To The Head 3.2m in sales with top-selling albums coming from artists such as Chingy, Coldplay, 3.5m Westside Connection, Yellowcard and Lisa Marie Presley as well as from The Live 2003 1.2m Beatles and The Beach Boys.
Virgin Records saw artist successes with releases from Janet Jackson, N E R D, A Perfect Circle, and Stacie Orrico.
In addition to the spectacular launch of Norah Joness second album, the Blue Note Records label contributed strong releases from Van Morrison, Al Green and Sarah Brightman.
Also producing good sales for the year were Keith Urban, Dierks Bentley and Trace Adkins of Capitol Nashville as well as Joss Stone and Fountain of Wayne with the S-Curve Records label.
EMI market share By region value % The Beatles Let It Be Naked North UK & Continental Japan Asia Latin Australasia Total America Ireland Europe ex.
6 11.2 10.8 10.5 10.0 7.9 Robbie Williams Live at Knebworth 2.7m 2003 What We Did Last Summer 2004 1.0m Note: EMI share of wholesale including audio and music video products 6 Apple Corps Ltd UK and Ireland Coming off of a strong prior year, EMIs share in the UK and Ireland declined over the financial year.
Nevertheless, the business continued to perform well in an industry that experienced growth of 1% for the period and continued to generate success from releases of established stars as well as newer artists.
The Live At Knebworth CD and What We Did Last Summer DVD from Robbie Williams enabled him to build upon his impressive talent as a live performer.
The year also included major selling albums from Coldplay, Kylie Minogue, Utada Hikaru Blue, Atomic Kitten and Radiohead.
1 2.6m Newer artists including The Thrills, Athlete, Kelis and Jamelia delivered sales and chart success in the UK & Ireland.
Duran Durans Greatest offered a collection of the groups major hits as they began a world tour and received the Outstanding Contribution to Music award at The Brits.
The Beatles album Let it Be Naked provided consumers with Paul McCartneys original back to basics concept for this album and sold in excess of 3m units worldwide in the financial year.
Continental Europe In Continental Europe, our businesses gained share under difficult industry conditions.
Overall, the regional market had worsening sales, down by over 13% for the financial year.
The larger markets in Germany, France, Denmark, Sweden and Portugal were particularly challenging as they each registered declines in excess of the regional average.
The Italian artist Tiziano Ferro, the German artist Wir Sind Helden and the French act Air all had new releases that sold well in the financial year.
Other regional successes of the year included Reamonn, IAM, Mina, Caparezza, Pur, Jane Janet Jackson Birkin, Camela and Gyllene Tider.
The albums from Norah Jones, Robbie Williams, Damita Jo Coldplay, Placebo, Blue, Joss Stone and Jamelia were all well received by 2.4m consumers in Continental Europe.
As announced at the end of the financial year, we are undertaking a restructuring of some of our labels and artist rosters in Continental Europe.
In a number of smaller countries, we are consolidating marketing through a single department in each country which will support the releases from both Capitol and Virgin.
The roster within Europe is also being rebalanced to ensure the optimal focus on those artists with the greatest potential both locally and globally.
The steps taken in Continental Europe are designed to maximise flexibility, efficiency and Radiohead effectiveness in these changing markets.
Hail to the Thief 2.3m Japan Our Japanese business ended the year on a higher note, offsetting much of the disappointment of the first half.
Industry conditions improved during the year.
In the early part of the first half, there was an unprecedented level of returns for the industry as retailers undertook a major destocking, exacerbated by amended trading terms.
As a result, we took a 16.7m exceptional charge.
Returns have now declined back to their more normal levels.
We have also taken a range of steps which we believe will ensure that similar events do not recur.
The Japanese industry ended the financial year down by over 6%, a lower rate of decline than seen in Stacie Orrico Stacie Orrico the prior year.
1.8m Kylie Minogue Body Language 1.6m 7 A stronger slate of releases in the second half as well as good reception of DVD products enabled us to gain share in Japan for the full year.
The Single Collection from Hikaru Utada sold in excess of 2.5m units in the financial year.
Other successes came from 175R, Glay, Kishidan, Dreams Come True, Hitomi Yaida as well as the American artist Stacie Orrico, Janet Jackson, Norah Jones, Radiohead and Thalia.
An album of Queen hits, Queen Jewels, was developed to co-ordinate with a popular local television series, generating sales of over 1.2m copies.
Joss Stone The Soul Sessions South East Asia 1.5m EMI continued to invest in its business in South East Asia and generated sales growth in the region despite challenging industry conditions.
The overall market saw a decline of almost 9% in the financial year primarily driven by steep declines in India and South Korea.
The Chinese industry saw growth of over 11% for the year and the markets in Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines also experienced growth during the year.
Latin America The Latin American recorded music industry continued to struggle throughout the year, with a decline of almost 17%.
The markets of Mexico, Brazil and Colombia declined sharply while Argentina experienced growth from the prior year.
Further strengthening our business Blue We continue to reposition our business to excel whatever the industry conditions.
Guilty 1.4m An important move to increase our flexibility is our recently announced decision to outsource the manufacture of our products in Europe and the United States.
We have entered into long-term supply agreements with MediaMotion and Cinram International Inc. for the supply of CDs and DVDs.
MediaMotion will manufacture product for those EMI entities currently serviced from our facility in Uden, the Netherlands, while a Cinram facility in the US will manufacture for those EMI companies that currently receive product from our Jacksonville, Illinois, operations.
These two market-priced supply agreements have been structured to deliver the lowest possible unit cost to EMI over their full term.
As a result of these transactions, our manufacturing costs will not only be reduced, but will also become fully variable, thus insulating the business from the effects of changing volumes.
We also continue to make progress in transforming the way we manage our business through an intensive investment in technology.
This multi-year technology change programme will make us increasingly digital in the way that we operate both internally and externally and should yield significant financial benefits.
Piracy We have been extremely active in combating piracy in all its forms around the world and we have made good progress in containing the level of theft.
Nevertheless, piracy both physical and online continues to be a major problem for the industry.
A flood of cheap blank CD-Rs, mainly from Asia, has fuelled physical piracy in many parts of the world and has contributed to industry declines.
In the online world, the recent series of lawsuits pursued by the industry in the United States appears to have increased awareness and lowered levels of illegal file-sharing but, while this programme has now been expanded to other parts of the world, the piracy problem remains substantial.
8 Our commitment to slowing the theft of our product is very strong and we have put in place a worldwide infrastructure to address these important issues.
We will continue to invest in preventative technology measures, government lobbying and consumer education in the coming years.
Digital Importantly, there are now more legitimate online services to meet consumers digital demands.
This year saw a dramatic increase in the digital products offered Queen to which consumers responded very positively.
In Asia and Europe, mobile music Queen Jewels products such as ring tones met with great acceptance, while in North America, 1.2m music downloads became popular as several compelling services were launched during the year.
Online subscription services appealed to consumers in both the United States and Europe.
We have been pursuing these new revenue streams aggressively and have been working to make hundreds of thousands of EMI tracks available to consumers.
Sales from digital music have been growing impressively over the last 18 months, with revenues of 700k in the six months ended March 2003, together with 2.1m and 5.6m in the first and second halves, respectively, of the financial year just ended.
We continue to organise our business to take the best advantage of these trends and drive the development of digital music.
Outlook Looking ahead to the current financial year, we expect our industry to continue undergoing substantial change globally.
It is difficult at this stage to predict the overall performance of the industry and how the varied markets around the world will fare.
Our piracy initiatives are having an impact.
We are also encouraged that the development of digital music offerings has begun on a broader scale, although it is too early to forecast the rate and scope of consumer acceptance.
Importantly, we feel that the company is on a good track creatively, with focused artist development together with effective marketing and promotion of their repertoire.
A Perfect Circle With our continued emphasis on delivering high-quality music, we aim to make Thirteenth Step 1.2m good progress in a more favourable environment.
Note: Industry growth and share figures based on industry data from the IFPI and include audio and video music product unless otherwise noted.
Sarah Brightman Harem 1.1m The Beach Boys The Sounds of Summer 1.1m 9
