operating review United Kingdom and Europe In Europe, we have continued to grow our wholesale business in The wholesale and retail businesses have both achieved considerable Spain but other regions have been more difficult especially Germany, growth during the year.
We have recently expanded our sales team with the aim of improving the European business.
Retail turnover increased by 14% to 116.7 million 2003: 102.2 million on a 17% increase in total selling space at the end of the We have again taken a significant step forward in the wholesale period.
On a like-for-like basis sales increased by 3.7% during the operating margin through volume leverage on tightly controlled year: a pleasing result given the exceptionally strong comparatives for overheads and lower levels of discounting as well as the benefit to the second half of the year and the difficult trading conditions in the buying prices of the weaker US Dollar.
North America We continued our expansion of French Connection retail locations Following the return to growth last financial year, turnover in the North through a combination of eight new stores, four relocations to larger America retail business increased by 12% to $55.0 million 2003: premises and three store expansions.
In addition we opened three $49.2 million reflecting a 9.1% increase in like-for-like sales and a Nicole Farhi concessions in the new Selfridges and Harvey Nichols small net increase in store selling space with two new stores, two stores in Birmingham and Manchester.
The retail operating margin, closures and five new concessions in Canada.
The sales growth has at 9.5%, is slightly lower than last year primarily due to the been driven by a focused approach to the product offering, closer comparatively lower sales densities in our larger relocated stores.
management of stock availability on best selling styles, increased brand awareness and the apparent sustained improvement in the US Our home shopping businesses, fcukbuymail and Toast, have retail environment.
Our new store in The Galleria, Houston is performed very well during the year.
The combined fulfilment centre performing well and we have further sites under negotiation.
is a cost-efficient operation and both of the businesses are now Translated into Sterling at the weaker Dollar rate, the turnover is profitable.
Toast also now has three retail concessions in Selfridges reported as a 3% increase to 33.2 million 2003: 32.4 million.
The continued improvement in the retail business has brought it close The wholesale business has grown strongly and achieved sales to to break-even in the year and we are expecting a positive result in the third party customers of 100.1 million in the year, an increase of 11% new financial year.
We have continued our policy of maintaining a controlled distribution network by increasing the level of business with Turnover in the North America wholesale business increased by our existing customers rather than broadening coverage.
Translated into Sterling franchise network has continued to grow with three new UK locations at the weaker Dollar rate, this is reported as a 5% increase to 12.7 and three overseas: Galway, Istanbul and Bermuda.
In the first half of the year some of this 4 annual report 2004 increase was through discount sales at the expense of margin but businesses are made by our subsidiary in Hong Kong and these during the second half of the year we increased turnover despite the developments have resulted in a 41% increase in turnover in local disruption caused by Federated Department Stores decision to currency terms and a 41% increase in operating profit.
withdraw product with the fcuk logo.
While unhelpful at the time, the issues have now been addressed and business with Federated Brand licensing has started to grow again.
Licence income increased by 44% to 3.6 million from 2.5 million in 2003.
The major event in the year was the launch of the fcuk Overall the North America wholesale business is now in a position fragrance in North America by our licensee.
The marketing from which it will be able to grow with a strong sales team working campaign had a powerful impact and sell-through of the product in hard to develop business with both the department stores and both department stores and speciality stores, such as Sephora, was independent retailers.
The increase in awareness of the brand in very high.
This business is still in its infancy and we look forward to North America following the fragrance launch together with the considerable growth in the future.
improving retail environment have combined to enable us to grow all areas of the operation and we look forward to this continuing.
The remaining licences performed well with another good increase from the UK toiletries licence operated by Boots and with income Rest of the World from the shoe licence continuing to develop strongly.
During the year we further developed our businesses in other markets, especially Asia.
We have restructured our relationship with our partner There continues to be great potential for our licences both in Japan so that we now have a joint venture with nine stores and two domestically and on a global basis.
The change allows closer management involvement from the UK than has been possible to date while allowing our partners Current trading and future prospects to bring their local knowledge to the business with the aim of moving The new financial year has started well with improved levels of to profitability.
In Hong Kong we have also created a joint venture with wholesale orders, a continuation of strong retail sales growth in experienced local operators and the first store opened in November of North America and the imminent launch of the fcuk fragrance last year with two more opening in the spring.
The Groups share of in Europe.
the trading of these associated businesses is shown in our accounts this year for the first time.
The soft consumer spending that we saw in the last quarter of 2003 has continued into the first weeks of the new financial year, Our partner in Australia currently has twelve stores and will open however the margin in these weeks is well ahead of last year.
In addition we have licensed partners trading will be opening at least three new locations in UK Europe in the first in Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia with a number of new locations half of the year, including a new store in the Xanadu Centre in Madrid planned to open during the new financial year.
Sales to these and we also have a number of other opportunities under review.
5 operating review continued In North America, in the first five weeks of the new year, retail sales have We continue to pursue further franchise and licensed stores.
continued their recent strong growth and gross profit is also strongly During the first half of the new year stores will open in Greece, the ahead.
We have recently finished the refurbishment and extension of Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia and two further stores will our store in New Orleans and will be opening a new store in Short Hills open in Hong Kong and Australia.
We have a list of target sites in the US that we are actively pursuing but we are conscious, as always, of ensuring Once again, we are looking back on a year in which the quality that we find sites which will make appropriate contributions.
and depth of our team has generated strong growth in both earnings and cashflow.
The combination of a good start to the The wholesale order books for Summer 2004 in UK Europe are well new financial year and the potential for development in all of our ahead of last year and deliveries to our customers have been on time.
markets gives us confidence that we can continue the Groups The level of repeat orders has been encouraging.
The reaction to the long-term success.
Winter 2004 collection has been good with orders ahead of last year despite the caution caused by a generally difficult winter season in 2003.
Neil Williams In North America orders are ahead of this time last year and we Operations Director remain confident of an improvement over last year.
