12 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating Review The new group is large and spans many countries around the world.
This can provide challenges for developing the business, but we believe the key to success is a combination of strong central direction and good local management, with just the right level of processes and controls to ensure that we have detailed plans in place and that business performance against those plans is reviewed regularly.
It is our philosophy that, whilst the corporate centre review.
This also ensures that we assess the risks to sets the overall strategy, targets and frameworks in our business and have contingency plans in place to which the businesses operate, it is important for each mitigate those risks.
business to develop and apply those principles in a Processes are in place to support divisional initiatives way which is appropriate for the local market where they can be of benefit to a number of business conditions.
Our managers are experts in understanding units these cover areas such as security and local issues and adapting their plans to achieve the best operational procedures, market segmentation and possible performance.
Our divisional business line structure enables The fundamentals of our strategy start with our people.
us to develop and spread best practice throughout Ensuring that we have the right people in the right job the group and to learn from developments in may sound very basic, but in our industry it is essential.
They should be experts in their particular sector of We conduct regular reviews where we assess the security industry and their local markets and have operational, financial and personal performance the leadership and management skills to drive the to ensure that the businesses objectives business forward.
They should also be incentivised are on track.
They also enable us to take to focus on the aspects of the business which really appropriate action at the right time matter and drive growth and margin improvement.
The culture of the organisation has to be right, as the With this balance of central direction way we do business differentiates us in the eyes of and review combined with local customers and employees.
We want customers to expertise and entrepreneurship, we are be more than satisfied with the service we provide confident that the business will continue and we aim to develop long-term mutually beneficial to deliver on its targets to the benefit of partnerships with them.
We also want employees to all its stakeholders.
I am proud to be part feel proud to be part of the organisation and we do of the organisation and am excited about everything we can to help drive this feeling throughout what the future holds for the group.
We develop detailed strategies and plans which set clear goals and milestones to drive the business towards its targets and form the basis for future Nick Buckles CEO Elect Security Solutions for the future 13 Group 4 Securicor Targets When Group 4 Securicor was created, we set some challenging but achievable medium-term targets in a number of areas, including organic growth, profit margin and cost savings synergies associated with the merger.
We aim to achieve these targets within 2-3 years.
Organic growth Overall organic growth targets On a business line basis, the The organic growth target Business Line Organic range of organic growth targets represents a blended rate of Growth Target is from 5% for Manned Security 6% per year.
2004 growth was Manned Security in North America & Europe, 6.2% due to some exceptional 6% North America & Europe 5% up to 15% for Justice Services.
growth in New Markets and per annum Manned Security the US.
3,727m New Markets 10% Security Systems 8% 2003 Pro forma Organic Medium-term Cash Services 8% turnover growth Justice Services 15% Profit margins Overall profit margin targets In 2003 we achieved a pro forma 0.9% Profit margin Business Line Margin Target profit margin of 5.3% overall.
The 0.8% targets before Manned Security synergies which will be achieved as group costs can North America & Europe 6% 7% a result of the merger are expected 6.1% also be further 5.3% Manned Security to increase profit margins by 0.8% broken down on New Markets 6% with a further 0.9% coming from a business line Security Systems 10% operational improvements, giving basis as follows: 2003 pro forma Synergy EBITA MediumMedium-term an overall medium-term EBITA Cash Services 10% EBITA margin impact margin after term EBITA margin margin target of 7%.
synergies operational Justice Services 10% improvements Integration and synergies Part of the rationale for bringing together Securicor The majority of these savings were to be made at the corporate, regional and business unit head office level, and the security businesses of Group 4 Falck was the with the impact on operational staff being minimal.
Integration of the organisations has gone very well to date, potential for synergies across the businesses.
Following with some significant milestones being achieved: a detailed review of the organisations and a substantial New management structures were in place very quickly after the merger was completed audit process, we identified 30 million in cost savings The cultural integration of the two companies has been successful spread across the businesses, which would represent The new group headquarters opened in September 2004 in the UK a 0.8% improvement in group EBITA margin.
These The group financial systems consolidation was completed early in 2005 targets were announced in June 2004.
The Copenhagen head office closed in February 2005 Integration of the major business units has gone very well Synergy targets Customer and employee retention has remained high throughout the integration process 7m Business as usual focus has continued in those businesses not integrating representing 80% of the group 9m 30m When the synergy targets were announced, we expected to Planned synergy timings achieve the total benefit within three years after the merger 14m completion in July 2004, with the majority being achieved within two years.
The phasing for annualised savings is shown in the chart opposite: 30m Manned Cash operations Corporate Total synergies 28.5m security incl.
insurance Head Office When we presented the 2004 preliminary results on 14 March and Regions 18m 2005, we were pleased to announce that we were ahead of our phasing plan for achieving the synergy targets and that we July 2005 July 2006 July 2007 expected to achieve the full 30 million run-rate, ahead of our c. 60% c. 95% c. 100% plan, by the end of 2005.
The actual effect in the 2004 calendar year was approximately 2.5 million and it is expected to be 18 million in 2005.
14 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating Review Manned Security The provision of manned security services to customers, including governments, public authorities, commercial companies and retailers.
Services include traditional guarding and reception duties, aviation security, event security, risk management, mobile patrol and response services and justice services.
The latter services include the custody and rehabilitation of adult and juvenile prisoners, electronic tagging and monitoring of offenders, prisoner escorting and immigration services.
Hans Bennetzen Grahame Gibson Divisional President Divisional President Security Services Security Services Europe Americas & New Markets Hans is Divisional President of Security Grahame is Divisional President of Security Services Europe for Group 4 Securicor Services Americas & New Markets for having been Group COO at Group 4 Falck Group 4 Securicor having been with the from 2000.
He was Finance Director of Group 4 Falck group since March 1983 and Fona from 1987 to 1990, Managing Director holding the position of Group COO at of Falck Securitas Denmark from 1990 to Group 4 Falck from 2000.
Formerly he was 1995, and COO of Falck Holding from 1995 Group 4 Finance Director UK from 1983 to 1998.
In 1998 he became Senior Vice to 1987, Deputy Managing Director of President and MD of Group 4 Securitas Group 4 UK from 1987 to 1989, Group Northern Ireland and later added Vice President Corporate Strategy from Managing Director of Group 4 Securitas 1989 to 1992, Group Vice President Belgium to his responsibilities.
In June 1998 Finance and Administration from 1992 he became Senior Vice President responsible to 1996 and Vice President Operations for Belgium, The Netherlands, Luxembourg, Central & South Eastern Europe and UK Canada and Morocco.
15 Focus: Security Services Americas & New Markets The Wackenhut Corporation have been providing security services to Bank of America since 1993 when they won a tender process from a customer trying to rationalise from contracting with 27 different security suppliers.
The contract has grown over time to become Wackenhuts single largest commercial contract, employing over 2,400 full-time employees across 30 states.
Over the course of the contract Bank of America and Wackenhut have, together, implemented several pioneering initiatives designed to lower robbery rates.
One of these came from research which concluded that having police officers or security guards inside a bank only moved the risk of violence inside the building and that it was better to have an armed, uniformed officer stationed outside the bank branch.
Wackenhut employees now serve as this highly visual deterrent to would-be robbers, coping with the extremes of weather that come from being stationed outside.
Another innovation is the use of Wackenhut bank protection officers BPOs, armed officers who are highly qualified, trained in the use of weapons and who wear a distinctive uniform.
The BPO programme and its deployment was the brainchild of Bank of America and Wackenhut.
Law enforcement interviews with apprehended bank robbers have confirmed BPO appearance and placement as reasons why Bank of America locations were not targeted.
The fact that Wackenhut remains the sole provider of security services to Bank of America after 12 years can be attributed to the excellent service provided by the dedicated Wackenhut team and the strong partnership that exists between the two organisations.
Manned Security Key Financials 2003 04 Turnover and profit margin performance Turnover EBITA Profit m m margins At constant exchange rates 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Europe 1,307.7 1,261.0 75.4 70.6 5.8% 5.6% North America 1,002.6 920.7 53.1 48.8 5.3% 5.3% New Markets 380.1 330.9 26.0 24.0 6.8% 7.4% Exchange differences 154.7 8.9 At actual exchange rates 2,690.4 2,667.3 154.5 152.3 5.7% 5.7% includes associates includes Justice Services excludes share of joint ventures Organic growth 2004 Europe North America New Markets Total 3.7% 7.2% 9.9% 5.8% Pro forma 16 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Manned Security continued Group 4 Securicor trading in 2004 Commission approval for the overall merger required Europe divestment of the Group 4 Falck security company.
In the UK, our largest manned security business in Separating this business proved to be a complex Europe and the second largest within the group, we exercise for the Dutch management team towards the achieved organic turnover growth approaching 4% in end of 2004.
2004 which was very strong given that management were also focusing on integration of the two UK The Dutch market remained difficult throughout 2004, security businesses.
The integration of the operational but we did see some improvements towards the end systems was completed on 7 March 2005 which was of the year and into the early part of 2005.
Turnover Market positions a major milestone in the integration programme.
in 2004 was slightly below the performance in the Across the manned security division, we have some previous year, but profit margins were maintained.
At the same time, this business also had to plan for strong market positions in key regions.
the implementation of new security industry regulation In our other key businesses in Europe, the which would involve extra training and licencing of staff Market Position Market Position performance of the security business in Germany across the company.
These licences are being awarded Region Manned Security Justice Services improved, with greater focus on price increasing in throughout 2005 and will be compulsory for UK UK 1 3 a market in which this has historically been difficult.
Scandinavia 2 Good direct cost and overhead control, coupled with Germany 2 implementation of the integration programme, meant Customer retention was strong in the UK security that our planned cost savings began to come through Netherlands 1 1 business throughout 2004 at approximately 88%.
towards the end of the year.
There was growth in existing contracts and some new Belgium 1 business wins which helped to generate a small margin France 2 In France we had very strong double digit profit improvement over 2003.
Central and growth, some very good contract wins and improved Eastern Europe 1 margins overall.
The business is not expected to grow substantially North America 2 3 in 2005 as we continue to manage the integration For reporting purposes, the UK Justice Services Middle East 1 process and implement the licencing and training business forms part of the European manned security Asia 1-2 requirements of the UK Security Industry Authority.
In this business we achieved a very strong Latin America 2 profit performance in the final year of the first national We had planned to integrate the two security South Africa 1 electronic monitoring contract.
businesses in The Netherlands but the European Focus: Security Services Europe Security at Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam, is very strictly controlled as at any major international airport.
Schiphol deploys 2,400 private security operatives, the majority of these 1,800 being supplied by Falck Airport Security, part of Group 4 Securicor.
Head of Security at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Ron Louwerse comments:As a private company, Schiphol has a statutory role to fulfil and hires in private security companies to implement this, under the supervision of the Royal Military Police.
The Dutch Ministry of Justice sets the rules, based largely on the EU Regulation of 2002.
Falck Airport Security performs the checks on passengers and crew in two of the three departure halls, in addition to fulfilling a number of specialist security tasks.
Profile agents interview the passengers on high-risk flights and inspect their travel documents.
Apollo agents also provide security for the aircraft in the case of high-risk flights.
In addition, Falck Airport Security inspects all registered baggage.
Group 4 Securicor is active at many airports throughout the world and is constantly updating its knowledge of the latest technologies and developments in the area of airport security.
Ron Louwerse states:This is one of the reasons why we decided to call in Falck Airport Security.
Their international dimension enables the firm to contribute knowledge and know-how.
Ron Louwerse continues:I think we can be satisfied with the way we provide security at Schiphol with Falck Airport Security, ICTS-NAS and the Royal Military Police.
This does not mean, however, that we do not continuously strive to improve security still further.
17 We have also commenced a new immigration contract Employment and healthcare-related costs continued to management.
There was also a higher than expected which will be implemented fully by May 2005 and we be high but manageable in 2004.
In 2005, we will focus statutory wage award and a delay in commencing the were successful in winning three of the five new areas on achieving our price increase targets to cover these integration programme.
Most of these issues have now for electronic tagging and monitoring of offenders growing costs.
Growth in Wackenhut is expected to been addressed and the performance of this business a new UK contract commencing in April 2005 which continue at above the rate of GDP, but we do not is expected to improve.
expands our UK market share to 60%.
expect it to be as high as the levels achieved in 2004.
Elsewhere in New Markets there was good growth in Elsewhere in Europe, the performance of the security In Cognisa, turnover has reduced overall, but we have India, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates and Kazakhstan business in Sweden was disappointing.
We have made seen good growth in the transportation segment.
The and throughout most of the small businesses in a number of management changes and have started business continues to operate at a slight loss and we developing markets.
to see the first signs of an improved performance.
expect it to remain at that level in 2005.
In Asia, despite some deflationary economies within Our businesses in Ireland, Luxembourg, Greece and In Canada, a large aviation security contract was lost the region, we achieved good growth and margin the Baltic States delivered double digit growth and in during the year, so overall organic growth was negative.
Belgium there was improved growth and an improved There has been good growth in the non-aviation profit performance.
sector and the business is performing well overall.
North America New Markets In North America, Wackenhut performed very In New Markets those outside North America and strongly in 2004 with organic growth of around 11% Europe we achieved our target of 10% organic in a very competitive market.
The largest manned security business in the maintained overall in line with 2003, despite the region is in South Africa, where we had a number company taking on a large amount of new business, of issues in 2004 including the loss of some large which generated some start-up costs.
contracts and the defection of some of the senior We believe that security markets develop through different phases and at each phase the market characteristics and therefore the services provided will change.
As we move through the phases in any of the business lines, the services provided become more complex and demanding, leading in most cases to customers outsourcing large areas of their business to security services providers.
There are opportunities in most markets to influence the speed at which markets develop and, with our global presence and strong reputation, we are able to assist in shaping this process.
Manned Security Market Development Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Development Phases Phase 1 Increased market concentration Outsourcing and specialisation Integrated security manpower, Market Status Fragmented market systems and response Fully outsourced security Services Provided Static and mobile guarding Guarding, mobile patrols, Segmented services for large function national coverage with outsourcing contracts some specialisation Market Characteristics Low margin Top 4 providers with combined Large outsourcing contracts Customer focus on security 50% market share requirements at board level Low regulation Aviation and retail sectors defined Segmental focus begins Risk reward contracts Highly competitive Premium offering developed Low growth Globally co-ordinated No industry association Some sales combined with Price and gross margin systems Outsourcing and partnerships management are key in justice sector Low risk outsourcing pilots take place in justice sector 18 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating Review Security Systems The provision of a range of security systems, including the design, installation, maintenance and monitoring of intruder alarms, access control, CCTV and other security systems.
Two of our largest Scandinavian businesses in Sweden Market positions and Denmark showed little growth, but Denmark still Across the security systems division, we have strong had very strong profitability in the year.
market positions in Scandinavia, Central & Eastern Europe and the Middle East and are developing our Overall the margin progression in the security systems businesses in most other European locations.
division can be attributed to a focus on contract profitability and introduction of key performance and productivity measures.
It was also affected positively by Group 4 Securicor trading in 2004 a restructuring project which commenced in 2003.
Overall in security systems, profit margins grew by 2.2% in 2004 to 8.2%.
Organic growth overall was 7.8% with new markets growing very strongly at almost 100%.
The business model for the security systems division, which we have introduced to all key markets, focuses on higher growth and more profitable sectors.
In Europe, we achieved good growth in Norway, Germany and The Netherlands and particularly in the UK, where the export of complex access control systems to the US was particularly strong.
Security Systems Market Development Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Development Phases Phase 1 Market Status Fragmented market Increased market concentration Integration of systems Full integration with overall and devices facilities management solution Services Provided Stand-alone alarm systems Larger systems with control Networked and integrated Fully integrated electronic centre connectivity devices with single control security systems with building centre interface management solutions Market Characteristics Low margin Top 5 providers with combined Larger and more complex Outsourcing of large and 50% market share contracts complex building systems Small contracts Medium margin from Segmented market demands Networking capability Mainly small customers critical mass Integration ability is key Partnerships with technology High recurring revenue from suppliers Relationships with consultants service and monitoring develop Large multiple site retailers Some sales combined with and banks manned security Price and convenience-driven 19 Focus: Security Systems In December 2004, Group 4 Securicor won the contract to provide CCTV at 12 of the European Parliament buildings based around three main sites in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg.
The solution is an advanced one, utilising the latest digital IP Internet Protocol technology which enables wireless, remote viewing of the CCTV cameras which will record the flow of visitors and employees around the Parliament buildings.
The contract will include the monitoring of more than 900 cameras, on a secured private network, making it the largest such system in Europe.
Group 4 Securicors electronic security systems experts are currently working closely with the customer to ensure a successful implementation of the contract in partnership with our CCTV and IT suppliers.
Security Systems Key Financials 2003 04 Turnover and profit margin performance Turnover EBITA Profit m m margins At constant exchange rates 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Europe 317.9 306.5 25.5 18.3 8.0% 6.0% North America 1.8 1.2 0.2 0.1 9.3% 11.7% New Markets 29.5 14.4 2.9 1.0 9.7% 7.2% Exchange differences 10.0 0.4 At actual exchange rates 349.2 332.1 28.6 19.8 8.2% 6.0% includes associates Organic growth 2004 Europe North America New Markets Total 3.7% 50.8% 92.3% 7.8% Pro forma 20 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating Review Cash Services The provision of a range of cash services including cash transportation, coin & cash management, ATM management and replenishment, and fully-outsourced cash centre management.
Ken Niven Divisional President Market positions Europe Cash Services Across the cash services division, we have some strong market In the European cash services businesses the overall margin positions in key countries.
reduced slightly compared to 2003, due mainly to a poor Ken is Divisional President of cash performance in Germany which was highlighted during the year.
services for Group 4 Securicor Region Market Position having previously been UK Regional The UK business continues to be our flagship cash services UK 1 Managing Director for Securicor company and performed strongly.
One of the key aspects of France 3 from 2001 and before that the second-half performance was a very strong improvement in Managing Director of the UK cash customer service levels.
Integration of the cash centres and the Germany 2 services operation from 1998.
He cash services businesses was completed in the year and the Sweden 2 joined Securicor in 1996 following single entity is working well.
Belgium 1 a successful earlier career within In partnership with Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank, we Netherlands 1 the logistics management industry commenced an end to end cash solution for Abbey, a major UK Poland 1 where he held senior roles at financial institution, and are also bidding to win further business Express Foods, Exel Logistics and Finland 1 in the financial institution outsourcing area.
Canada 1 Germany remains loss-making and growth has been flat.
We Central & Eastern Europe 1 have a number of major turnaround initiatives underway which, in conjunction with the integration of the two businesses there, Group 4 Securicor trading in 2004 should enable the business to break even in 2005.
In cash services, organic growth was 6.5% in 2004 which was The Netherlands performed strongly with double digit margins driven by an exceptionally good performance in New Markets.
This business started 2005 with a Overall, margins improved from 7.6% to 7.8%.
major contract win with ABN Amro.
Other businesses in Europe which have grown well are France and Sweden, but attack losses in both of these countries were a key issue in the final quarter.
Cash Services Market Development Development Phases Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Market Status Fragmented market CIT market leadership with End to end cash management Completed outsourced cash 40% market share solutions Services Provided Basic cash in transit CIT CIT, retail deposit processing CIT, ATM services including Fully outsourced cash solutions provision and ATM services cash forecasting and second covering all aspects of the line maintenance and cash cash cycle centre outsourcing Market Characteristics Low margin Sector based Regulated environment ATM network management Little investment in IT Market leadership position with Central bank relationship Financial institution partnerships or infrastructure 40% market share ATM cash forecasting and Responding to customer Financial institution and retail second line maintenance demand focus Utility processing model ATM replenishment and first lowest cost line maintenance Planning for change 21 Focus: Cash Services Netherlands In 2004, the Group 4 Securicor cash services operation in The Netherlands, Geldnet, held a contract with ABN AMRO for the management of around 400 of the banks ATMs along with other Self Service Machines such as night vaults and coin dispensers.
In December 2004, ABN AMRO offered Geldnet a more significant share of their outsourced ATM work, if Geldnet could commit to being able to begin servicing their entire ATM estate, consisting of 1,400 machines, within a month.
In order to ensure the business was able to implement this major increase within such a tight timescale, Geldnet formed a dedicated project team to plan the mobilisation.
Thanks to an extremely efficient and well-planned operation and a high level of co-operation between the business and the customer, Geldnet managed to implement servicing of the additional machines within the agreed timeframe.
Cash Services Key Financials 2003 04 North America In Canada, growth has been relatively slow, but there have Turnover and profit margin performance been very strong margin improvements over the last two Turnover EBITA Profit years through price increasing, improved efficiencies and m m margins better productivity management.
Bolt-on acquisition At constant exchange rates 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 opportunities in Canada will be essential in order to build Europe 635.1 604.3 44.7 46.4 7.0% 7.7% up market share and critical mass.
North America 64.3 63.3 3.9 2.1 6.1% 3.4% New Markets New Markets 68.5 44.8 11.0 6.2 16.0% 13.9% In New Markets we had very strong growth overall of Exchange differences 15.0 0.9 over 30%, with new business start-ups and very good At actual exchange rates 767.9 727.4 59.6 55.6 7.8% 7.6% progress in key territories and margin improvements throughout the region.
We had particularly strong includes associates performances in Morocco, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Organic growth 2004 Botswana and Kenya.
Europe North America New Markets Total 5.1% 1.5% 32.1% 6.5% Pro forma
