HALMA Operating Review Fire and Gas Fire and Gas turnover Despite fierce price competition in the Sector Overview 2004 75.0m global fire products market, and 2003 70.0m dropping prices, our companies Our Fire and Gas sector companies achieved improved gross margins.
This lead the world in sensor technologies was due to continued manufacturing that detect hazards before they investment, improved supplier become life-threatening and give relationships and skilful marketing.
people warning to get out of harms way.
Our commercial quality fire The regulatory burden on fire safety detection products, sold to 70 Fire and Gas profit product manufacturers continues to 2004 16.6m countries, protect both people and increase.
New standards were imposed buildings from the risk of fire.
Workers in many industries rely on Through regular presentations, the our gas detectors to safeguard their Group educates customers, regulatory   to toxic or explosive gases.
We also the impact of new regulations.
make specialist products for conditioning gas samples before they Segmental turnover, 2004 Restructuring of European gas detector are analysed.
Fire and Gas sales through directly controlled branch The principal sales channels for fire Water operations in Holland, Germany, Poland detectors are distributors and fire and France led to significant European Elevator and Door Safety alarm installers, whereas customers sales growth.
Prices of portable gas Process Safety for gas detectors range from lone  contractors to multinational oil Resistors production costs through improved companies.
During 2003 04 our Fire manufacturing and offshore sourcing.
Optics and Specialist and Gas sector companies produced However, lower pricing is creating 27% of continuing Group turnover m 75.0 greater demand and increasing the use and 33% of operating profit.
of personal protection products, particularly in developing countries.
We achieved significant advances in both sales and profits throughout this Certification of our gas detectors by the sector.
All of our fire products principal marine approvals organisation companies raised profits during Segmental profit, 2004 has created new sales opportunities in 2003 04, coupled with increased Fire and Gas the high growth marine market.
Most growth in fire expect to reach many new customers Water detector sales came from the UK, via a new distribution agreement with a Elevator and Door Safety Europe, the Middle East and the US.
We leading multinational marine support also grew gas detector sales and profits Process Safety business.
A new multi-gas portable significantly,  Resistors detector was successfully launched with a direct sales force in the US.
easeofmaintenance, leadingtolowcost Optics and Specialist of ownership, proving critical.
Increased co-operation between our fire m 20.0 product companies on research and before interest, tax and goodwill  development, marketing and shared amortisation see note 1 on the closely with US developers of fuel cells.
Accounts  These are electro-chemical devices that advantage.
Development of new smoke function like batteries or electric detectors and electronic fire sounders generators but run on hydrogen gas as benefited from inter-company fuel.
Until now, this has mainly been a collaboration.
However, in 2003 based smoke detectors were 04 we began to sell gas conditioning successfully launched, opening new markets in Eastern Europe and the components used in fully commercial Middle East.
In total, twenty new fire fuel cell systems for small-scale power  04. generation.
14 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Our latest gas detectors protect workers from four different gas hazards simultaneously.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 15 HALMA Operating Review Water Water turnover The world market for UV water Sector Overview 2004 34.5m treatment technology is predicted to 2003 33.1m double within 5 years, mainly driven by We have world class companies .
Thereisashift operating in three areas of water away from chemical techniques in technology: ultraviolet UV light , wastewaterand water treatment, instruments for swimming pool water towards the UV conserving water in distribution process which greatly reduces or networks and water analysis eliminates the use of chemicals.
All of these markets are Water profit 2004 5.8m global and exports account for a high  proportion of sales in this sector.
2003 5.5m in supplying UV drinking water Our principal customers in this sector treatment plants that comply with new, are drinking water supply companies stringent US Environmental Protection and municipal authorities together Agency requirements.
A 15 million with food and process industry gallons per day treatment plant that we manufacturers.
Based in the UK, the supplied to the city of Henderson, Netherlands, France and the US, Segmental turnover, 2004  during 2003 04 our Water sector Fire and Gas US which met the new regulations.
companies produced 12% of Water continuing Group turnover and 11% Sales of water analysis instruments of operating profit.
Elevator and Door Safety werebuoyant,  Process Safety Australia.
A new photometer water Worldwide growth in demand for clean Resistors analyser, launched during 2003 04, is drinking water, industrial process water already the laboratory sector market Optics and Specialist and wastewater treatment results from leader.
We will soon launch a low cost , urbanisation m 75.0 water analyser for monitoring private and population growth.
Other factors, swimming pools and spas, transferring such as tighter water quality and waste  regulations, environmental issues and market into the domestic arena.
A large water shortages, also stimulate the UK water company has chosen our need for our water technology products.
ammonia monitoring system to control During 2003 04 we saw sales and Segmental profit, 2004 its wastewater plants, which will profits grow in this sector.
Fire and Gas positively impact on sales in 2004 05.
Water We won significant new leak instrumentation business in the US and Elevator and Door Safety South-East Asia.
In the American midProcess Safety west there is growing interest in Resistors  Optics and Specialist supplies, instead of further depletion of natural sources.
US sales of water m 20.0 conservation instruments doubled.
before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation see note 1 on the Accounts We won a major contract for leak detection equipment from the city authority in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Las Vegas has the fastest growing population of any US city with 20,000 new homes built each year.
Nevadas water supplies are under pressure and  and conservation measures.
16 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Las Vegas, Nevada, where our leak detection technology helps to conserve the citys water supplies.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 17 HALMA Operating Review Elevator and Door Safety Elevator and Door Safety turnover One fundamental driver affecting Sector Overview 2004 65.1m  2003 46.3m the global trend towards urbanisation.
We are world leaders in infrared and Increasing population densities in cities  require high rise office and residential opening and closing of elevator doors buildings, and also large public access andautomaticdoors.
Ourdoorsensor buildings where automatic doors are products have three functions.
ensure public safety, make buildings more accessible to people with Elevator and Door Safety profit Population growth is declining in many 2004 12.1m disabilities and optimise traffic within countries.
This demographic shift is buildings.
We also make control 2003 8.1m creating an ageing population more systems, voice communication and likely to benefit from elevators and visual display equipment for automated doors.
These businesses are improves access to public buildings for based in Belgium, the UK, New people with disabilities continually Zealand, the US, Singapore and raises demand for our door safety and China.
Segmental turnover, 2004 emergency communication products.
Fire and Gas Both the elevator and automatic door  markets split into new-build and Water for automatic door sensors.
Thenew-build elevator intercom product was Elevator and Door Safety sector is dominated by a small introduced mid-year designed to meet Process Safety number of multinational elevator and new US building codes and sales have door manufacturers, whereas Resistors been very promising.
refurbishment projects are usually Optics and Specialist handled by relatively small local New European regulations covering m 75.0 contractors.
During 2003 04, this elevator door safety and emergency sector produced 23% of continuing communications should also help drive Groupturnoverand24%ofoperating up demand in 2004 05.
of elevator emergency telephones almost doubled last year and we are We saw a large rise in both sales and rapidly establishing market leadership profits from the Elevator and Door Segmental profit, 2004 for these products in the UK.
This followed Fire and Gas inclusion of the first full year of trading One in ten of our employees in this Water at Belgian door sensor specialist BEA, sector works on research and Elevator and Door Safety .
Innovative new products Process Safety other companies in this sector delivered protect market share where we are good overall organic growth despite Resistors  adverse currency movements, markets.
An entirely new type of visual Optics and Specialist reinforcing BEAs excellent progress.
safety product launched recently warns m 20.0 when elevator doors are closing.
This is before interest, tax and goodwill Sales growth in Asia was exceptionally a unique product that is creating a new amortisation see note 1 on the strong, with major volume increases in market.
Another new product that Accounts China, Japan and Australia.
We now controls pedestrian access barriers in have two manufacturing facilities in retail and transport facilities is already China and satisfy half of the entire selling well in Europe.
Chinese market for both elevator door sensors and automatic door sensors.
Sales of in-elevator LCD display panels also achieved substantial growth aided by the Groups worldwide distribution network.
18 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Visitors to The Louvre Museum, Paris, are protected by our elevator safety and door control products.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 19 HALMA Operating Review Process Safety Process Safety turnover and pressurised process plant.
Sector Overview 2004 36.0m 2003 35.2m Sales of safety interlocks for controlling In this sector we make two types of valves in the petrochemicals sector industrial safety products.
However, sector  performance overall was flat.
Increased interlocks, products that safeguard UK export sales to the enlarged EU dangerous machinery and process offset a decline in UK demand.
They protect industrial responded by developing new, workers from death or injury and Process Safety profit technically innovative products, due for 2004 6.6m prevent damage to plant.
Our second launch in 2004 05, and through process safety speciality is bursting 2003 6.8m diversification.
These devices prevent excessive pressure and protect We have recently launched a unique, people, the environment and process patented product, targeted at the equipment .
growing retail logistics market, which Process safety markets are global, prevents accidents to fork lift truck but demand varies from one country Segmental turnover, 2004 operators.
The initial reaction from to another due to wide variation in Fire and Gas some of the UKs largest retailers and safety legislation.
Customers for our Water logistics companies is very positive.
process safety systems range from During 2004 05 we will also launch a very small businesses up to the Elevator and Door Safety new generation of industrial access and worlds largest corporations.
Process Safety controlproducts, withbenefitsfarahead Operating from the UK, the US and Resistors of any competitor, and create sales France, Process Safety generated opportunities in new areas of Optics and Specialist 13% of continuing Group turnover manufacturing industry worldwide.
Our two bursting disc manufacturers maintained market share during 2003 During 2003 04 buoyancy of the 04.
Over the past 3 years, our bursting petrochemicals market has been at an : alltimehigh, andisstillrising.
Growthis production costs have been cut, new fuelled by the quest for new energy Segmental profit, 2004 managers have been recruited and new sources, particularly by China, Japan Fire and Gas methods of servicing the European and the US.
High oil prices encourage market are now in place.
The end result Water capital expenditure in petrochemicals is higher product quality, lower cost exploration and processing which, in Elevator and Door Safety products, improved delivery and a turn, creates demand for our process Process Safety stream of innovative new products that safety products.
Resistors should increase market share.
Optics and Specialist We are seeing a worldwide trend  m 20.0 match the best international practice.
before interest, tax and goodwill Oil companies are increasingly adopting amortisation see note 1 on the Accounts the best practices from their worldwide exploration and production sites and applying them globally.
This raises safety  and strengthens underlying demand for our products.
Recent UK and EU safety legislation also continues to exert a positive influence on demand, particularly in the operation of pipelines 20 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Our process safety products prevent accidents and explosions at chemical and petrochemical plants worldwide.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 21 HALMA Operating Review Resistors Resistors turnover locomotive builders.
Predictions of Sector Overview 2004 27.2m higher fuel costs for cars, together with 2003 27.5m increased government spending on The high power resistor market is mass transport infrastructure, also global, with demand subject to suggest that transit sector demand will macroeconomic trends.
applications are in rail transport, the process industries and power New US safety legislation designed to distribution where our products are protect industrial workers from used to safely dissipate electrical Resistors profit electrical arc flash hazards should 2004 2.2m energy.
Our strategy to maintain stimulate demand for high resistance world leadership in this sector is to 2003 3.1m grounding systems in the future.
This continuously innovate and develop technology protects workers from resistor products with global sales injury.
It also cuts costs by reducing potential.
production stoppages caused by Our six resistor makers, based in the electrical faults.
As the market leader in US, Canada, Australia and the UK, high resistance grounding equipment in contributed 10% of continuing Group Segmental turnover, 2004 North America, we expect to benefit Fire and Gas sales and 5% of operating profit in from the new regulations.
Water We have continued to rationalise Elevator and Door Safety  manufacturing between production Process Safety sector and saw strong sales growth in centres to gain efficiency benefits.
transit and power filtration markets Resistors Manufacture of transit resistors has during 2003 04.
However, overall been concentrated in the US, creating a Optics and Specialist resistor sales were flat and profits true world player, well positioned to m 75.0 declined.
The impact of Dollar Sterling exploit the huge Chinese market for  urban transit systems.
North American performance: an 8% Dollar increase in resistor sales During 2003 04 our resistor businesses translated into a 1% Sterling decline.
took advantage of the growing commercial opportunities in China.
Competition in this sector is tougher Segmental profit, 2004 Increased raw materials sourcing from thanithaseverbeen.
Weareprotecting Fire and Gas Chinese suppliers has helped shield market share and margins through marginsfromerosion.
Atthesametime, Water innovation,  resistor sales into the Chinese market Elevator and Door Safety raised productivity.
With a US economic rose substantially.
A new partnership Process Safety upturn, the trend of declining demand project to manufacture our resistors in could reverse.
Expansion in key resistor Resistors Shenzhen, China, will add impetus to markets, notably mining, metals Asian regional sales growth in 2004 05 Optics and Specialist refining and oil and gas processing, and also deliver highly competitive should lead to rising demand.
m 20.0 products to sell into our traditional before interest, tax and goodwill markets.
amortisation see note 1 on the Sales of filter resistors increased due to Accounts rising capital investment by metals processing industries in response to commodity price rises.
Tighter US emissions regulations for diesel locomotives, coming into force in 2005, could stimulate rolling stock replacement and restore transit resistor demand to the normal historical level.
We supply both of the US diesel 22 Halma p. l. c. 2004 In the energy sector, our resistor products protect electrical power distribution networks from damage when faults occur.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 23 HALMA Operating Review Optics and Specialist Optics and Specialist turnover protect patients from disease Sector Overview 2004 42.8m transmission: one format will withstand 2003 42.7m high temperature sterilisation and We own two world leading optical another is disposable.
We make ophthalmic instruments and lenses, Sales of ophthalmic instruments for examining eyesight and benefited from a series of new and diagnosing visual defects, and optical improvedproducts.
Themostsignificant sensing systems for measuring were cordless, battery-powered colour, brightness and chemical Optics and Specialist profit versions of our indirect 2004 7.1m properties.
Our secondary focus in ophthalmoscopes, worldmarketleading this sector is on high precision fluid 2003 7.5m products.
These instruments offer  significant benefits to ophthalmologists analytical instrumentation.
Both , areas have been strengthened by particularly in the US.
acquisitions since the year end.
We have made several changes in this In May 2004 we acquired Ocean Optics, sector, including selling three Segmental turnover, 2004 Inc. a manufacturer of optical sensing non-core businesses.
A world market leader in  Water miniature fibre-optic spectrometers, its global and exports account for a high  Elevator and Door Safety proportionofsales.
Customersforour used in consumer electronics, process Process Safety fluid technology products are control, environmental monitoring, life primarily high-tech instrument Resistors sciences and medical diagnostics.
Like manufacturers, mostly based in the other Halma businesses, Ocean Optics Optics and Specialist US or Europe.
The companies in this has strong positions in niche markets m 75.0 sector are based in the UK and the and significant growth opportunities US, and in 2003 04 contributed 15% exist for its optical sensor-based of continuing Group turnover and products.
Three non-core subsidiaries were sold Improved sales and profits at our core during 2003 04.
They did not achieve optics and fluid technology companies Segmental profit, 2004 our profit growth or return on were offset by slightly disappointing Fire and Gas investment targets due to long-term performances from some of the market changes.
Water specialist businesses in this sector.
Elevator and Door Safety Head Office company results are We extended our interests in fluid Process Safety reported within this sector, and their technology with the acquisition of Diba income reduced this year.
As a result, Resistors Industries, Inc. in May 2004.
Our the Optics and Specialist sector sales specialist fluid technology companies Optics and Specialist performance wasflatin2003 04 andits grew sales in two high-tech markets: profit contribution declined.
m 20.0 bio-hazard detection and clinical before interest, tax and goodwill diagnostics.
We won contracts for  amortisation see note 1 on the critical components built into biological Accounts pushed up export sales, with significant hazard detection equipment, a new growth in the US, Japan and Australia.
These systems Our US ophthalmic lens business has analyse air samples from mail sorting been increasingly successful at machines and identify anthrax or other developing OEM business.
The United manufacturers of electro-optical States Postal Service will use this instruments now design our optical equipment in mail distribution centres components into their products.
new types of surgical lens will help 24 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Biological hazard detection is an emerging market for our high-precision fluid control and optical sensing products.
