Operations Review We are developing great relationships with a targeted group of leading world-class customers.
IMI Business Presidents IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966.
At 31 December 2004 it had a market value of 1.4bn and shareholders funds of 534m.
The companys headquarters is at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, England.
IMI Group trading activities are carried on through subsidiary companies.
Group activities Stuart Carson The Group activities are organised around three main business Severe Service areas.
Fluid Controls and Retail Dispense together comprise our five platform businesses providing knowledge-based Severe Service engineering solutions in clearly defined niche markets of In our Severe Service business, in a year when additional around 1-3bn.
The common goal of all five is to deliver investment in specialist sales engineers was held back to allow innovative and complete solutions for a highly targeted group operational efficiencies to keep pace with the growth, 2004 of leading global customers.
In Fluid Controls our businesses still saw another year of solid growth in plant level sales and share similar technologies to drive efficiency.
Severe Service new construction projects.
The running rate for order intake principally operates in the power generation and oil and gas was over 10% higher than 2003 with much of the growth markets: Fluid Power provides essential pneumatic systems coming from Asia where we are winning a good share of new for original equipment manufacturers in markets such as projects and benefiting from an established installed base.
commercial vehicles, medical, printing and packaging and We also continue to see increased activity in the oil and gas in-plant automotive: Indoor Climate services building and sector where CCI is the recognised authority on severe service facility operators aiding energy conservation and cost control.
valve applications for LNG liquified natural gas.
With the US Our Retail Dispense businesses share merchandising know-how new construction power market still soft, we are focusing to drive incremental volume for our customers.
Beverage more of our resources on these growth areas.
The profile of Dispense designs and manufactures still and carbonated our order book is currently more weighted to new valve beverage dispense systems to help multinational businesses projects than in the recent past and contains significant sell in draught form their highly branded alcoholic and soft orders for shipment dates beyond 2005.
Our customer service drinks: Merchandising Systems designs and supplies point of business remains very healthy.
purchase PoP displays to enable brand owners and retailers As reported in our interim statement, shipments in the first to increase sales in retail outlets.
Our third business area, half were 5% lower than the first half of 2003 but this was Building Products, predominantly comprises the Polypipe reversed with a strong finish to the year resulting in shipments operations which provide plastic pipes and building service being 6% ahead for the year as a whole.
Margins are also products for the construction and building industry.
ahead of last year and should continue to improve in 2005 in another year of consolidating on past investment spend.
6 Operations Review Fluid Controls We are developing the creative competence of the fluid controls businesses, and seizing the initiative in new markets.
Two recent acquisitions, FAS with its strength in medical markets and Syron, with its in-plant automotive expertise, increase our capabilities in both these areas.
David Nicholas Executive Director Fluid Controls Jim Mannebach Roy Twite Fluid Power Indoor Climate Fluid Power Indoor Climate A strong performance in the year from our Fluid Power business Our Indoor Climate business produced a resilient saw operating profit considerably increased over last year.
performance, increasing operating profit despite another Volumes overall were over 8% ahead, driven by organic growth challenging year in its major European markets and price of around 6% in the underlying markets and 16% in our target pressure on raw materials.
Overall, volumes were similar to sectors.
The commercial vehicles sector was particularly strong.
last year with growth in Eastern Europe, UK and Asia The US, which represents around a quarter of sales, had a offsetting a small decline in the traditional European buoyant year and was able to respond to the increased volume markets.
demand through a strong operational performance from our The small first half improvement in thermostatic radiator Mexican facility.
The UK and Germany both benefited from the valve TRV sales in the German market was not sustained, introduction of new valve products to support key accounts leaving sales for the year as a whole unchanged.
However, it within the targeted sectors.
Mainland European sales in general, was pleasing to see that in a nationwide survey of installers, however, showed only modest growth and disappointed towards Heimeier was recognised as being the number one brand for the end of the year.
Sales into the Asia Pacific region continue service and support.
The pattern of demand for balancing valves is patchy across We were very pleased to be able to complete the acquisition of Europe and the weak US dollar is holding back sales to the FAS in July which contributed 1m operating profit on sales of US.
In the UK, however, our high performance balancing 10m.
We are already seeing the benefit of having a greater valves are winning market share in PFI financed projects.
range of miniature solenoid valves and increased capabilities in We continue to invest in our Eastern European infrastructure the important medical sector.
and opened new facilities in Russia during the year.
We now Our specialist end-of-arm tooling business, serving the in-plant have 175 people in our Eastern European operations which automotive sector, had a successful year and the acquisition of grew sales by 15% in 2004.
We also continue to invest in Syron in February 2005 extends its reach into transfer press China, where the considerable construction programme tooling.
Although not substantial yet, we are We continue to drive cost reduction measures and spent a beginning to see increased sales.
further 2.7m on rationalisation during the year.
Our new facility in Brno, Czech Republic is thriving and to date has met all approval standards and efficiency targets.
Also in Brno, we have established a technical centre working on new product developments.
7 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Operations Review Retail Dispense Our retail dispense businesses seek to understand our customers whole operating environment.
Our customers turn to us for insight and engineering know-how to help them to promote and develop both their brands and the retail environment.
Wayne Whitney Executive Director Retail Dispense Alan LaFreniere Merchandising Systems Beverage Dispense Merchandising Systems Our Beverage Dispense business performed well throughout Merchandising Systems continues to make progress, with the year in the US with encouraging underlying demand and organic growth of nearly 7%, building on the very good 10% operational efficiencies continuing a strong improvement.
Helped by a full years contribution Consumer confidence appears to be growing, as evidenced by from Artform, we are able to report operating profit 4m ahead increasing restaurant traffic enabling operators to report of last year despite the adverse impact of around 5m from same store sales gains.
This backdrop has provided the exchange rates and raw material costs.
impetus for good demand in our food service sector and brand Our traditional Cannon business was affected by raw material owner business, although this has been tempered by a recent costs as steel prices were driven up by as much as 75%.
This slowdown with one of our major soft drinks customers.
was mitigated more in the second half by pricing and increased We continue to achieve success with our sales of nonFar East sourcing of other materials.
Underlying demand, carbonated dispense equipment, with juice, frozen offerings however, was encouraging and quotation activity increased and Lipton iced tea again showing good growth.
Our Mexican further towards the end of the year.
Particularly encouraging manufacturing facility made a much improved contribution with was our first time entry into the growing US DIY sector.
Display efficiencies at target levels and our US operations reaping the Technologies repeated its success in beverage and bulk display benefit of ongoing efficiency programmes.
systems and grew its international sales further.
It continues to In mainland Europe, we achieved modest growth in the year in develop a focused key account and key sector strategy.
both soft drinks and beer dispense although the second half Although lower than the very successful 2003 in which a number of the year was slower.
Encouraging sales both in Eastern of large contracts were shipped, DCI had another very good year Europe and of our small but growing water dispense with the first half benefiting from the Toyota Scion programme equipment in Germany helped offset lower volumes in our and customer Point of Purchase sales again increasing.
The traditional beer dispense markets.
automotive sector continues to be a significant contributor to In the UK, sales into the soft drinks dispense market were up DCI but several other key sectors are being targeted which lend on last year.
In beer dispense we had benefited in 2002 and themselves to DCIs creative knowledge-based solutions.
2003 from a shift into extra cold programmes and two years Artform completed a very good first full year with sales 5% of heavy brand owner promotional spend.
Consequently, ahead of pre-acquisition levels and with maintained margins.
volumes in 2004 showed a marked decline.
Cosmetics remain the major proportion of sales with the leading In Asia, although sales were ahead of last year, we still lack European brand owners the key customers.
critical mass and will be looking to increase our investment We are still in the early stages of development of our category particularly in respect of a growing food service sector management business model and have a number of pilot opportunity.
We have recently moved our regional programmes running with selected accounts.
8 Operations Review Building Products Analysis of sales The Group serves all the major geographical markets where our customers are present and in 2004 these are summarised in the chart below.
Until 29 February 2004 the operational presidents reported directly to the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb.
Thereafter David Nicholas was responsible for the Fluid Controls businesses and Wayne Whitney for Retail Dispense.
Building Products continued to report directly to the Chief Executive.
% sales UK Rest of Europe US Other Fluid Controls 11 54 19 16 Retail Dispense 17 13 62 8 Building Products 75 22 1 2 Blair Illingworth Group 28 35 27 10 Building Products In Polypipe, although overall volumes slowed a little in the The sales and operating profit by business area in 2004 were: second half, the market, particularly for our core pipes business, remains generally positive.
Price increases were % of Group sales successfully implemented in the second half of the year, mitigating the impact of raw material costs and restoring Fluid some of the margin erosion seen earlier.
New product Controls Retail 48% introductions continue and offer good growth opportunities.
Dispense 776m 28% Losses in the Doors and Windows division and difficult 455m conditions in Bathroom and Kitchens and Leisure contributed Building significantly to the reduction in profit in the year.
Action Products 24% has been taken to arrest the decline in these businesses.
380m The small European pipes businesses continue to improve, % of Group profit producing increased profits.
The underlying strength of Fluid Retail Controls Polypipes main business remains solid and this, together Dispense 55% 28% with the management changes made during 2004, should 90.0m 46.6m provide for a recovery in performance in 2005.
Building Products 17% 28.0m before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 9 IMI plc Annual Report 2004
