14 ITV plc Annual report 04 Agatha Christies Poirot Operating review The top performing programme on ITV1 schedule Daytime ITV1 in 2004 was the Euro 2004 performance 2004 Daytime was a particular priority for France vs. England match which ITV1 in 2004.
We acquired a further Once again, ITV1 was the most attracted 17.8 million viewers and a 25% interest in GMTV, bringing popular channel in the all-important 66% share.
Across the whole year, our holding to 75%.
GMTV is the peak-time viewing segment.
ITV1 had an average peak-time UKs Number 1 breakfast time TV ITV1 broadcast six of the top ten audience of 6.9 million and a 31% show regularly attracting a 26% programmes of the year.
This compares to 5.9 million viewing share.
We have seen good sport, ITV1 broadcast the top and a 26% share for BBC1.
progress year-on-year in the weekday two programmes of the year In contrast, our commercial rival 9.30-12.30 slot, building on the an episode of Coronation Street Channel 4 had a peak-time average of improvements already made in 2003.
16.3 million and 58% share and the two million viewers and a 9% share.
final of Im A CelebrityGet Me Out This Morning remains an informative ITV1 continues to deliver mass Of Here!
and lively show, regularly winning its audiences for advertisers.
In 2004, all ITV1 also broadcast eight of the top slot, with an average 1.2 million programmes on commercial channels ten dramas: the most popular new viewers and 27% share.
During 2004, that had ten million viewers or more, drama series on any channel it had interviews with the Chancellor of and 95% of programmes that had five Life Begins and the best performing the Exchequer and the Prime Minister million viewers or more, were on ITV1.
one-off new comedy drama Christmas in addition to its usual mixed diet of Lights.
We also broadcast five of the This outstanding performance lifestyle and consumer strands.
top ten lms and five of the top reects the substantial investment We were particularly pleased with the ten entertainment programmes.
of 850 million that was made in the success of The Paul OGrady Show ITV1 schedule.
This is far more than which launched in the autumn.
This show gave a significant boost In any one day, ITV1 reaches 47% to the highly competitive 5-6 pm 26 million of the UK population.
slot, delivering at its peak more than This is eight million viewers more three million viewers.
It will return in than Channel 4 and 14 million more 2005 and we are planning new than five.
The ITV Family of Channels strands to further increase reaches 10.7 million more viewers interactive revenues.
in peak-time than Channel 4 in an average night.
15 Doc Martin Life Begins Dirty Filthy Love The popular William and Mary also EastEnders for the first time in 2004.
Drama returned averaging 8.5 million and Coronation Street remained the ITV led the way in showing high quality, 34% share.
highest rating drama programme of original UK drama productions in the year with 16.3 million viewers tuning ITV1 also aired a number of single 2004.
It was an exceptionally strong in to the Tracey, Karen and Steve love dramas.
The touching Belonging, with year with our dramas consistently triangle storyline in February 2004.
Brenda Blethyn, Kevin Whately and attracting critical acclaim and large Coronation Street won a BAFTA for Anna Massey, told the story of a woman audiences.
ITV1 broadcast a mix of best continuing drama and a host of rebuilding her life around the lives of single dramas and series, featuring awards at the British Soap Awards and those she cares for after her husband the best performing, writing and National TV Awards.
Dirty Filthy Love, produced production talent.
also won The South Bank Show by Granada, was a humourous and Award for best drama.
This is the first This included Life Begins, the poignant single drama about a man time a soap has ever been nominated.
years most popular new drama with obsessive compulsive disorder, series, starring Caroline Quentin, and won the award for best one-off In 2005 we are planning to add averaging 9.9 million and 39% share.
drama at the 2005 Broadcast Awards.
interactivity to enhance viewer appeal Another highlight was Doc Martin and revenues.
Geraldine McEwan starred as starring Martin Clunes as a doctor Miss Marple in four new adaptations Other drama successes came in the whose truculence and tactless manner of classic Agatha Christie mysteries form of returning series Heartbeat, causes mayhem in a small Cornish told with new twists.
Foyles War, The Royal, and Midsomer Murders community.
Doc Martin regularly starring Michael Kitchen, returned all of which averaged more than attracted more than 9.0 million viewers and was again a hit with a 34% 9.0 million viewers and A Touch of and won the coveted Best share of all viewers and 34% share of Frost which was the best performing TV Comedy at the British Comedy ABC1 viewers.
one-off drama of the year with Awards.
Both were among the 13 million viewers.
top ten dramas of the year shown Our banker shows in the ITV1 schedule on any channel and both will return all performed strongly, with gripping in 2005. storylines and good ratings.
Emmerdale went from strength to strength and attracted more than 9.0 million viewers on average.
It also outperformed an episode of 16 ITV plc Annual report 04 Operating review The X Factor The Paul OGrady Show Hells Kitchen ITV was delighted to sign Entertainment Comedy Michael Parkinson and his show The entertainment genre is the ITV1 broadened the inventiveness and has established itself quickly, second most powerful driver of ratings range of its comedy output in 2004, attracting a stellar range of guests, in ITV1s schedule, after the soaps.
bringing new talent to the channel.
including Tom Cruise, Kevin Spacey, 2004 saw ITV1 consolidate its Denzel Washington, Renee Zellweger Hardware continued to provide position as the home of high-quality and Dame Judi Dench.
Parkinson on intelligent writing and performances family entertainment, broadcasting ITV has attracted an average audience and Shane attracted 29% of 16-34s.
11 of the top 20 entertainment share greater than his last series on shows on TV.
The All Star Comedy Show features the BBC.
many established names in comedy In February, Im A CelebrityGet Me Ant and Decs Saturday Night such as Steve Coogan, Vic Reeves Out Of Here!
generated more than Takeaway powered ITV1s Saturday and Bob Mortimer.
Topical animation 100 front page splashes and was a night autumn schedule averaging 2DTV continues to be critically clear example of the attraction of eight million viewers and 49% of acclaimed and develops new writers, talked-about TV.
The final was the the commercially valuable 16-34 voice artists and satirists.
Ant and Dec won programme of the year, peaking with In the highly original Directors the Rose dOr for Best Gameshow 15 million viewers.
The programme Commentary Rob Brydon re-voiced Presenters and Best Variety Show, had a second run in the autumn and old lms as the monstrous but along with two National still proved compulsive viewing.
brilliant creation of lm producer Television Awards.
Hells Kitchen was an ambitious TheX Factor proved to be compelling new format, proving popular and The best one-off new comedy drama viewing with the final programme peaking with 8.6 million viewers.
performance came from Christmas watched by a total of 10.2 million Lights starring Mark Benton and viewers, with a 50% share of 16-34s.
Some of the biggest names in Robson Green with an average of entertainment Ant and Dec, Taken together, ITVs Entertainment more than 11 million viewers and a Simon Cowell, Sharon Osbourne, output succeeded in improving its 44% share of individuals.
This show Chris Tarrant and Michael Parkinson appeal to the 16-34 year old audience, has now been commissioned as a all ensured that Saturday nights and making it the favoured option for young series for ITV.
ITV were back on the family-viewing adult viewers and outstripping the agenda in 2004 with inventive, creative performance of ITVs closest and high-energy programming.
17 Michael Parkinson with Tom Cruise The extraordinary work of ITV Current affairs and factual News News teams drew unprecedented ITV1 continues to provide a varied The dawn of ITV plc brought critical acclaim.
The team of line-up of hard-hitting documentary considerable benets to the operation correspondents and the quality of ITV and lighter factual programmes.
For the first time in half a News was recognised with a host of century of broadcasting, ITV Network awards presented in 2004: at the In 2004 the agship documentary News provided by ITN and the ITV RTS Journalism Awards: Programme series Real Life attracted some of the regional newsrooms in England and of the Year for the ITV Evening News: countrys best documentary makers Wales under the ownership of ITV, Best News International for Baghdad and the series won the recognition are able to work together as one coverage: RTS Television Journalist of many critics.
Editions included coherent and highly effective of the Year for John Irvine: and Best Too Scared for School, a lm about news network.
Innovative Application for the ITV News bullying and Children of the Miners set at the RTS Technical Innovation Strike about heroin addiction in The management of ITV News wasted Awards.
ITV News also won the former mining towns.
no time in leveraging this development Broadcast Award for best news and the result has been a critical and Bad Lads Army had a very successful programme for its coverage of the commercial success.
run in peak-time, with a 32% share, Beslan School siege.
In one of the putting it in the top ten factual shows The year provided many challenges: bravest pieces of television journalism, of the year.
An exceptionally well-made Boscastle, Beslan, the ongoing conict Julian Manyon and his crew provided piece of television, using inventive in Iraq and of course the worst natural extraordinary coverage of the graphics and story telling, the series disaster in living memory the Asian unfolding siege at the school in conscripted a group of young men Tsunami.
Each and every challenge Beslan.
Manyon entered the school with criminal records into 1950s style was met with an exceptional response ahead of any other journalist, army training.
commenting live on the devastation he found.
On Boxing Day, within hours of the first news of the Tsunami, ITV News despatched correspondents, producers and engineers to the worst affected areas.
The swiftness of response and the quality of those despatched enabled ITV News to outank both the BBC and Sky.
In addition to extended news coverage, ITV News produced a half hour special on 27 December and a further one hour special.
18 ITV plc Annual report 04 Operating review Mark Austin reporting from the scene of the Tsunami Reporting from Boscastle ITVs breaking news on the Beslan hostage crisis The ITV News Channel also had a ITV broadcast its 12th year of Highlights of the year included strong year, continuing to make and Champions League coverage, which My Life as a Popat, the first British break news ahead of the competition, still proves a massive draw with Asian drama in childrens television.
6.3 million viewers Scary Sleepover developed a ground We also successfully introduced a watched Chelsea lose a thrilling breaking new format and was devised fresh approach to rolling news, offering semi-final in April and when the in response to research with children.
breaking news together with context tournament started up again in My Parents are Aliens returned, and analysis.
The ITV News Channel September, 5.7 million people tuned continuing to set new standards in benets from cross-promotion on ITV1 in to see Wayne Rooney make his comedy and design.
Butterngers and by being able to draw on ITV hat-trick debut against Fenerbache was an excellent football drama, News correspondents and presenters at Old Trafford.
produced and cast in Scotland and who are familiar faces to our viewers.
The teen ITV won numerous plaudits for its drama Girls in Love picked up the We will continue to provide viewers comprehensive coverage on ITV1 Best Childrens Drama award at with a high quality, highly competitive, and ITV2 of the Tour fide France in July.
impartial and accurate news service Formula One remains extremely Jungle Run, produced by Granada, at the international, national and popular and the emergence of won an award at the RTS Craft and regional level.
Jensen Button last year increased Design Awards.
The US Grand Prix Engie Benjy, also produced by Sport peaked with five million viewers Granada, encouraged pre-school and Monaco with a 38% audience ITV Sport had a very successful 2004. children to interact by talking directly share.
The British Grand Prix pulled The main football event was the to them on screen.
in 3.6 million viewers and a 35% European Championship, which the share up 14% year on year.
Saturday mornings have continued channel covered throughout June with to present a challenge against tough high prole games broadcast on both competition.
Almost 18 million Childrens debuted in 2004, replacing SM:TV.
people tuned in for Englands opener 2004 saw increasing competition CD:UK remains popular later on against France on ITV1 the biggest for young viewers from 19 dedicated Saturday morning.
In 2005 we have rating show of the year for the channel childrens channels, aggressive launched an exciting new series of and more than 14 million viewers scheduling on BBC1 and significant Captain Scarlet using CGI animation watched England play Switzerland.
cross-promotion of their dedicated in this timeslot.
Despite this, ITV has broadcast a wide range of programmes and won a number of awards.
19 The South Bank Show Melvyn Bragg and Ronnie Wood Engie Benjy On the set of Coronation Street The success of our digital ITV3 is already proving popular with its Arts multichannels meant that the total target audience of 35, who control a In 2004, ITV1 broadcast programmes commercial TV audience to ITV large proportion of the nations wealth.
reecting high culture and channels in multichannel homes After just three months, ITV3 has an contemporary arts including 21 editions in 2004 remained stable at 29.4%, impressive 1.1% average share of of The South Bank Show covering the same as in 2003.
ABC1 adults, reaching more than a diverse range of subjects from the 15 million viewers.
This is largely due to the continued worlds of literature, theatre, lm, growth of ITV2, and the successful We are increasing our investment arts and music.
Melvyn Bragg, the launch of ITV3 in November 2004. in multichannel programming from shows presenter, won the RTS Best ITV2 and ITV3 are the top two 24 million in 2003 to 60 million Presenter award Factual.
multichannel choices in Freeview pa in 2005 and aim to generate The Classical Brit Awards in May homes and within the top ten in all 150 million pa of multichannel celebrated the best talent in classical multichannel homes.
advertising revenue by the end of 2007. music.
ITV1 again showcased the best Their success is partly due to of popular music in its coverage of The UK TV market cross-promotion and complementary Brit Awards and Record of the Year.
As television competes with other For example if ITV1 is showing a media for marketing and advertising ITV Family of Channels major sporting event, ITV2 can show budgets, the industry must promote The strong ITV brand has provided a female-biased lm, while ITV3 can the benets and opportunities the base for the establishment of a target an older audience with a television brings as a communications successful family of channels: ITV2, popular drama.
ITV3 and the ITV News Channel.
ITV2 is rapidly catching its main ITV has played a leading role in the Together these channels have won commercial rival, Sky One.
ITV2 is creation of Thinkbox, a new industry a significant share of viewing and increasingly winning slots from the body which will promote commercial advertising in the multichannel world.
channel: our aim is to overtake television.
By December 2004, 35.5 million Sky One.
Strong brand extensions individuals had access to multichannel including The Xtra Factor and Im A TV Freeview, Sky or Cable.
Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here...
Now!, This was an increase of 4.2 million first class movies and quality sports from December 2003.
Recent rapid coverage such as the Tour fide France growth has been mainly via the Digital are helping to drive ITV2s growth.
terrestrial platform Freeview where In 2005, we will acquire more high ITV1 has higher audience shares than quality popular programmes and on cable or satellite.
increase the number of original commissions for this channel.
20 ITV plc Annual report 04 Operating review Emmerdale Separately, we launched our Values Tio Pepes sponsorship of Hells These benets were again borne of Fame customer relationship Kitchen led to a dramatic increase in out in 2004 with Granada delivering marketing programme in the Autumn.
sales during the two week series: by the most cost-effective programming This demonstrates televisions unique 40% in Tesco and 25% in Sainsbury.
to ITV1, minimising the cost of ability to build enduring brand fame Other notable sponsorship deals programmes while maximising the for advertisers and their products.
include Heinz who extended their volume of commercial impacts.
We published a book, which includes sponsorship of Emmerdale and Granada makes Britains most-watched case studies on televisions power Cadbury who renewed their programme, Coronation Street as to enhance awareness of brands sponsorship of Coronation Street.
well as Emmerdale, Heartbeat, and drive sales.
This continuing Agatha Christies Marple and Poirot, programme has been very well Production Im A CelebrityGet Me Out Of received by advertisers.
Here!, Parkinson, Ant and Decs Granada, ITV plcs programme We have created a new CRM team Saturday Night Takeaway, Tonight with production business, is the largest within ITV Sales, staffed with people Trevor McDonald and This Morning.
and most successful commercial TV recruited from the customer side of The vast range and number of producer in the UK, creating more the business.
By enhancing our productions allows Granada to than 3,500 hours of original understanding of our customers develop its huge talent resource programming each year and priorities we are better able to deliver across the production business.
supplying 67% of ITV1s originally commercial solutions that are tailored commissioned programmes.
During 2004 Granada has rationalised to their distinct business needs.
its production operations to concentrate As a producer broadcaster we are Interactive applications and advertising investment in the key production able to retain the hits and control the represent a significant opportunity for centres of London, Manchester, Leeds programme brands that define our a mass broadcaster like ITV.
We control costs particularly well positioned to capitalise by reducing programme price ination.
on these technological developments Granada success outside ITV We also derive the maximum benefit as advertisers take their campaigns In the UK, Granada also produces from the rights to our programmes beyond the spot.
Both Nokia with a number of highly successful and formats, both in the UK and The X Factor and First Choice with Im programmes for other broadcasters internationally, through third party ACelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!
including the BBC, Channel 4, five, sales and through secondary rights ran fully integrated brand sponsorship Sky One and other satellite and and merchandising.
campaigns on ITV1, ITV2, online, digital channels.
interactive and in off-air marketing.
There were more than 130 interactive campaigns on ITV in 2004.
21 Nokia sponsorship of The X-Factor ITV2s American Idol ITV3s Jeeves and Wooster For Channel 4, programmes include: However, helping to shape the PSP Regulation Countdown: Sex Trafc, one of their proposal will be a key priority for the ITVs public service broadcasting most highly-acclaimed dramas of the Company over the next few years.
obligations have been reviewed by year that averaged 2.2 million viewers: The Government has confirmed that Ofcom during the course of its PSB and Monarchy the four-year digital switchover may be completed Review process, which concluded in documentary by David Starkey which by 2012 and this target date has been early 2005.
It concluded that ITV1s began airing in the Autumn of 2004. written into the new ITV1 licences.
public service role should increasingly Granada also produces the awardThe impact of the switchover process focus on national and regional news winning Brainiac: Science Abuse for for ITV1 will be mitigated by reducing and high levels of UK-made Sky One and University Challenge for licence payments.
ITVs requirements in the BBC.
process still potentially involves costs other areas should reduce as a result of and uncertainty for all broadcasters.
However, ITV1 will remain heavily Granada International is now the ITV is already involved in the early regulated in comparison with its second largest distributor in Europe discussions over the formation of a commercial competitors.
The remaining and in 2004 sold 30,000 hours to SwitchCo body to take charge of PSB requirements still imply very 155 territories.
increased worldwide DVD sales to 16.9 million in the year.
Managing the regulatory dimension As part of its review proposals, Ofcom of ITVs operations will remain a key has proposed the establishment of Granadas international productions business priority for the Company.
had some particular successes in This would fund public service 2004.
In the US, where we are already broadcasting outside the BBC to a major lm and TV programme ensure PSB competition in a digital producer and distributor, we achieved era.
ITV believes that the PSP should a recommission of Nanny 911 with operate more as a fund than as a 18 episodes being produced in a broadcaster in its own right, to ensure 9 million deal.
In Australia, Dancing minimum waste and potential funding with the Stars was the highest rating for key commercial PSB genres, which entertainment series in a decade.
Ofcom has stated might otherwise In Germany, two series of Ich bin ein not be nancially sustainable beyond Star Im A Celebrity included the digital switchover.
Ultimately the highest rating new series of the year.
PSP proposals may not be nally determined before Ofcoms next PSB review starts in 2008 2009.
