Operating Review The objective is now to get the business back on track of being a volume, value retailer.
The last financial year has proved to be challenging caused, Re-establishing the value proposition principally, by a lack of focus on Matalans core strengths.
In simple terms, value at Matalan can be articulated as being High Street quality at half the price.
This, when combined with The poor sales and profit performance over the last 12 months extensive choice and a programme of compelling promotional was the result of a number of factors.
In the summer, sales were offers, delivers a unique proposition to its customers.
affected by poor choice, weak marketing and a ladieswear range that failed to meet the needs of our core customer.
In the Over the last financial year, this value proposition was not second half, sales of higher priced items, such as winter coats, always delivered, undermining customer confidence and jackets and heavy knitwear, were disappointing, and in October contributing towards the poor sales performance.
and early November availability was affected by the conversion The overriding objective over the next twelve months is to of our warehouse management systems.
November, traditionally a crucial month for Matalan, was affected by significant re-establish the Matalan value proposition in a consistent manner each week.
discounting on the high street, which reduced Matalans price advantage over its competitors.
Consistent value led marketing During the year Matalan took action to deal with all of these The monthly mailing to the Companys membership is a proven, issues, including changes to the womenswear buying team and highly effective marketing tool.
However, too much change to restoring choice within the stores.
Greater consistency has been this important tool was made in terms of both content and introduced to both the content and timing of the Mailer, mailing frequency.
Matalans regular communication with its active customers which now number over 10 million.
This inconsistency has now been removed with mailings reverting to a monthly profile and content being focussed upon The objective is now to get the business back on track of being communicating the key value components of low prices, a volume, value retailer.
The key areas are: compelling offers, breadth of choice and product quality Re-establishing the value proposition equivalent to the High Street.
Consistent value led marketing activity Improving product availability Improving product availability The third area of focus is to substantially improve the availability of product in front of the customer.
This is being particularly Improving retail standards targeted at key trading periods such as new season launches Refurbishing the estate and the critical monthly mailing to customers.
3 Operating Review continued To launch new seasons with real authority, stocks have been Investments made so far have seen labour turnover improve by brought into the business one month earlier than the previous year.
over 20%, still above the industry average but a step in the right direction, and absenteeism improve by 25%, back in line with The availability of products included in monthly mailings has industry average.
also been targeted to improve by a minimum of 20% above the levels achieved in the last financial year.
Retaining people that are better trained will result in improvements in retail standards, execution and will improve In order to accommodate these improvements to availability, customers shopping experience.
greater flexibility has been introduced into the supply chain.
For example, the balance of product sourced from the Far East has been reduced from 90% to 75%.
This has allowed more Refurbishing the estate fashionable product lines, where the sales patterns are more The final area of focus is to introduce a refurbishment variable and therefore carry greater mark down risk, to be programme.
Historically, the company has never had such a sourced from areas such as Eastern Europe where shorter lead large scale programme of store refurbishment and the intention times allow much quicker response within season.
is to address all stores over the next three to five years.
These initiatives will allow product availability to be continually Refurbishments have been trialled at three stores which have improved for the customer.
focused on improving: customer choice, value communication and the quality of the customer shopping experience.
Improving retail standards Following the success of this trial, a refurbishment programme of There is much scope for improvement in the quality of basic retailing standards with the stores.
A completely redefined HR 30 to 40 stores per annum has been designed.
The investment requirement will be in the order of 5m per annum with paybacks programme now focuses upon training and developing colleagues to achieve this.
planned at no more than 24 months.
4 In summary, the next twelve months need to build upon the With an unmatchable portfolio of progress made so far.
The value proposition will be maintained 178 large format non-food stores, and adjusted accordingly in response to changes in market conditions.
Marketing needs to drive footfall from existing and each averaging 30,000 square feet, new customers through greater consistency in timing, activity and with a membership which mirrors and product content.
Investment in systems and supply chain are targeted to continually improve the availability of product to the UK demographic profile, customers.
People retention through training is moving in the Matalan is well placed to exploit the right direction and needs to be continued, and the right balance trend of out of town retailers taking of investment between new and existing estate is needed to establish the right platform for sustainable growth.
market share from the High Street.
Matalans opportunity The established, long term trend within the UK has been for out of town retailers to take market share away from the High Street.
This has been seen in all areas of retail food, health and beauty, clothing, electricals with the real feature of the trend being that it is led by value retailers.
The value sector is still immature when compared, for example, with the United States, which has twice the market share of the UK sector.
This reduction in High Street market share will continue and it will continue to be led by retailers offering real value to their customers.
John King Group Chief Executive 5
