Operational Review We achieved an average selling price of 154,300 Our simple but effective business model 130,900, an increase of 18%.
This increase in selling focusing on UK retirement housing continues prices was principally the result of newer, higher priced developments coming on stream during the period, lower to produce excellent results.
We combine priced older developments selling out and some increase, but our Regions responsibility for key operational less than five per cent, in the prices of ongoing processes with strong central controls.
developments which have been selling over the last two years.
In addition the overall figure was influenced by a slightly higher proportion of two bedroom units at 31% 28% although we have not changed our standard mix of Retirement Housing one and two bedroom units.
The increase in volumes was driven by good performances Sales from Scotland, North West, Midlands and our newer We sold 2,055 units 1,948, an increase of 5%.
As Regions, North London, Western and North East and our predicted we sold fewer units in the first half, 780 831 and Assisted Living Division.
Our South West operation produced a strong second-half where we sold 1,275 units performed well with reduced stock levels whilst our South 1,117.
As usual, we recorded a heavier seasonal weighting East Region faced the challenges of the selling areas closer to the second half of the year with over 60% of our to London.
completions taking place in the spring and summer trading periods.
During the year we sold, on average, from 77 active sites 71 and from a total of 147 sites 130.
Our rate of sale per active site per month was 2.2 compared to 2.3 for the preceding year.
These figures are rather higher than the rate indicated by our longer term norms, reflecting the overall strength of the market in the last two years.
Residents Lounge, Minster Court, Axminster 7 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Operational Review Despite the increases in land cost and build cost coming have continued to drive land costs and there is little sign, as through to cost of sales, we were able, by virtue of our yet, of any easing in the land market.
To provide greater increase in selling prices, to nudge forward our margins to control over land costs and the mix of sites bought, the record levels.
These margins will ease back, in due course, Group has attributed target prices for land acquisition to as higher land and build costs come through and we cannot each region and this has been of benefit during the year.
anticipate selling prices continuing to advance at the rate During the year only 13 sites 9 were acquired they have in recent years.
unconditionally and we were able to secure planning consents within the year on four of those sites.
Our holdings The Group website, www.
co. uk, is of land acquired unconditionally and remaining without becoming increasingly important as a source of enquiries planning are regularly reviewed and remain within the which flow through to completions.
There were over one Groups parameters.
million hits to the website and our investment in online marketing programmes resulted in a 40% increase in Whilst land costs have continued to rise supported by completions arising from this source.
The site now accounts increases in selling prices, we continue to adhere to our for over 20 million of our sales revenue.
There is evidence to normal margin requirements which we have not reduced in show that not only friends and family influencers use the the face of competitive land situations.
We have also sought website to find out more about McCarthy & Stone but our to ensure that the increasing requirements to make elderly purchasers are also becoming more active in searching affordable housing contributions do not dilute our margins.
We regularly enhance our website and ensure it Year end Stock Units provides details of all our sites as well as identifying our land acquisition requirements and employment opportunities.
2004 2003 Change Finished 2,217 1,693 Despite the increase in our average selling price, our product remains affordable with the majority of our purchasers Under construction 1,977 2,092 trading down.
The average age of our purchasers in the year 4,194 3,785 11% was slightly higher at 76 72 reflecting, in part, the increase Land with planning 2,212 1,875 in sales of our Assisted Living apartments.
The use of the Land without planning 3,990 3,753 part exchange facilitation service which we offer increased.
There was also a slightly greater use of financing by our Total land holdings 10,396 9,413 10% Customers but as only seven per cent had a mortgage Overall the number of units in stock increased 10% exposure, it remains very modest.
The cost to the Company representing approximately five years sales at last years of incentives was higher than last year and increased sales rate.
In all, our land teams performed well over the towards the year end.
year although a significant proportion of land was acquired Our national marketing spend increased approximately 20% towards the end of the year which will tend to stretch over the year and our cost per completion derived from resources, in due course, in planning and construction.
national marketing also increased but it remained a cost effective source for sales.
We do monitor continually the success of our national marketing and periodically review and refresh the messages that we give to our customers.
Our extensive marketing programmes delivered almost 30,000 first time visitors to sales outlets, an 11% increase over last year.
Our public relations activity continues to be successful and year on year we increased the quantity of our measurable PR by some 9%.
We have enhanced our pre-marketing and enquiry levels on new sites are rising appreciably with some new schemes, particularly in Scotland and the North West, taking up to 50% of their reservations off plan.
Land and Stock The Group exchanged contracts on 77 sites 66 but contracts lapsed on 8 sites allowing a net addition of 69 sites 61.
This represented a net addition of 2,864 units 2,750.
The average cost of land exchanged was 37,300 per unit compared to 31,500 per unit the preceding year.
Average land cost per unit exchanged as a percentage of projected selling price, based on current market conditions, continues to be approximately 23%, similar to the previous year.
The Villas, Thorngrove House, Aberdeen Shortages in land supply and the strength of selling prices 8 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Imperial Court, Clacton-on-Sea Operational Review in attitude towards development in general and a more reasonable and consistent interpretation and implementation of planning policy.
There is a view that new housing is inherently undesirable and that the community should therefore be compensated for accepting new development.
Yet new housing, particularly of the special type that we provide, satisfies a basic need and brings with it social, economic and physical benefits.
Following a survey we commissioned, it is a concern that there are still only 12 authorities 6% that advised us that they had an adopted Housing Strategy for older people.
We are relieved that there are now a further 52 authorities 24% that advised that they are either developing a Strategy or intend to do so soon, which is an improvement on last year.
We are pleased, too, that the Governments Housing Planning and Older People Development Group has identified older peoples Housing Strategies as a priority focus of its work in The Group secured a record 63 planning consents 56 in seeking to implement the Governments Strategic the year, equating to 2,892 units 2,561 an increase of 13%.
Framework Quality and Choice for Older Peoples Housing.
Despite this commendable achievement by our Planning Bureau and its teams, the planning system continues to We continue to hope for a more favourable planning frustrate and delay the delivery of our developments.
In the environment and for greater recognition of the social and year we had to pursue 16 appeals 10, of which we won 10 economic merits of our sheltered housing developments.
and have subsequently secured planning consents on three Construction of those lost appeals.
We are still progressing revised proposals on the remaining three sites.
In 2003 04 first occupations occurred on 55 sites 45 representing 2,585 units 2,122 an increase of 22%.
It is a concern that planning appeals are now taking much Of these occupations some 24 first occupations arose in July longer to be heard, on average 10-12 months compared with and August 2004 14.
Build starts occurred on 55 sites 47 6-8 months in the last two years.
This is primarily due to the during the year.
Further build starts would have occurred Government placing increasing pressure on local authorities but were delayed by planning related considerations.
to determine applications within prescribed timescales leading to a plethora of quick refusals that are consequently During the first six months of the financial year we did being appealed.
The Planning Inspectorate is clearly experience some delays on sites as a result of supply difficulties.
struggling to cope with the increased number of appeals.
In addition, at the year end we were delayed from taking first occupations on certain sites by the utility companies being On average, last year it took 56 weeks 54 to achieve a unable to provide connections on a timely basis.
planning consent a decision by the local planning authority to resolve to grant permission.
The time taken thereafter to We have continued to use our standardised approach and receive the formal notice of consent and, hence, our ability long-tried construction methods although we are constantly to commence construction on sites is also increasing, due to trialling fresh techniques to see if they might be the escalating need to complete S. 106 Planning Obligations, cost-effective, environmentally sustainable or can reduce our reflecting the proliferation of contributions planning gain construction programmes.
On the whole our construction that is now demanded by local authorities.
Last year we teams were successful, again, in controlling their build costs.
agreed to pay 5.3 million 2.1m by way of off site Our material costs have moved little over the year and contributions towards affordable housing as well as providing although skilled labour continues to be scarce we have not 50 affordable units 44 by way of on-site contribution had undue pressure on labour rates.
The requirement to contribute Overall, the basic build costs increased by approximately five towards affordable housing is increasing at a significant rate.
percent compared to the previous year but we continue to In addition we have been required to contribute in excess of face increases in non-standard extra-over costs.
A large 1 million towards various community facilities, such as part of these costs are related to changing Government improvements to local public open space and libraries and Building Regulations, in particular, Part E relating to sound the provision of bus stops, cycle paths and pedestrian transmission which have added a similar amount.
There is a danger that the demand for affordable accommodate these changing regulations and details we housing and planning gain will prejudice the release of land have had to adapt certain aspects of our long established for development.
In addition, the increasing restrictions on We continue to look forward to the Governments positive landfill sites and the higher levels of landfill tax and the response to, and implementation of, the recommendations of aggregate tax are also creating further costs.
However, we believe it is not planning policy and procedures that need reform but rather a change 9 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Peelers Court, Bridport and 10.0m repurchasing Ordinary shares during the year.
The McCarthy & Stone Brand From a position where we had to suspend dividend We have remained focused on further enhancing the payments, we now record a compound increase in dividends prominence of the McCarthy & Stone brand.
At the same of 27% over the last nine years.
The share price which stood time our distinctive site signage has become more noticeable at 25p on 2 January 1993 was 614p on the eve of our as our sales and construction sites increase in number.
We are In February 2004, the Group celebrated a sixth consecutive proud of these achievements.
success in the Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards.
We have continued to focus our energies on our simple but McCarthy & Stone secured top honours in not only the effective business model with the objective of delivering volume housebuilder category, but also claimed the overall Customer satisfaction.
trophy being voted Best National Builder for the second We have invested in the key people we need to carry the year running in this, the only nationally recognised awards business forward and in the office and support ceremony voted for exclusively by purchasers of new homes.
This success is once again testament to the quality of our product and locations, our after sales service provision and We have: the high level of care and attention provided by each one of developed our key skills our customer-facing staff.
built up and strengthened our staff and management As explained in more detail in our Corporate Social resources Responsibility Report, we are represented on national and extended our regional coverage and established our regional specialist working groups and other relevant Assisted Living Division to achieve greater penetration of organisations with an interest in health and well-being of key local markets older people and the important role that housing has to play concentrated on effective land buying in that regard.
We have previously referred to our research report, launched in November 2003, entitled A Better Life: sought to ensure our effective approach to planning Private Sheltered Housing and Independent Living for Older operates within a coherent strategic framework People which demonstrates the significant social and controlled build costs economic benefits of the specialised form of housing that we maximised selling prices, margins and return on capital provide.
The Report has been well received and has operated within our strong control framework.
enhanced our reputation in having a genuine concern to ensure that decent housing options for older people exist.
From our four long established and mature Regions in the South West, South East, North West and Scotland we have Strategy and Achievements grown successful new Regions in the Midlands, Western, I am delighted to have been Chief Executive over an 11 year North East and now, most recently, North London.
In period during which time each year has seen profit addition, our Assisted Living Division is expanding steadily improvement.
McCarthy & Stone is a well respected and operating principally in the South East and now moving into successful company with an enviable track record.
Since March 1993 we have delivered total shareholder return of 2,358%.
From 981 units sold in the year to August 1993 we have this year sold 2,055.
Over the same period we have been able to move forward our average selling from 61,300 to 154,300.
We have increased net assets per share from 65.7p to 346p.
Keith Lovelock We have eliminated gearing which stood at 118% to a Chairman & Chief Executive position where we held cash balances of 57.2m at the year end having spent 22.2m redeeming the Preference shares 10 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc
