39 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply the result of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the the directors are required to: assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MEGGITT PLC We have audited the financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended We read the directors report and other information contained in the annual 31 December 2002, which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, report for the above year as described in the contents including the unaudited the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated part of the directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note on historical cost profit report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material and losses and the related notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have been inconsistencies with the financial statements.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Basis of Audit Opinion the information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinion we have We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and formed.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements, audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited in part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and auditing standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been Group for the year then ended: and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if with the Companies Act 1985. information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Deloitte & Touche effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Bristol control procedures.
4 April 2003 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002
