INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the financial Basis of audit opinion statements of MITIE Group PLC for the We conducted our audit in year ended 31 March 2002 which accordance with United Kingdom comprise the Group profit and loss auditing standards issued by the account, the balance sheets, the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Group cash flow statement, the note includes examination, on a test basis, of historical cost profits and losses and of evidence relevant to the amounts the reconciliation of movement in and disclosures in the financial Shareholders funds and the related statements.
It also includes an notes 1 to 29.
These financial assessment of the significant estimates statements have been prepared and judgements made by the under the accounting policies set out Directors in the preparation of the therein.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Respective responsibilities of Directors appropriate to the circumstances of and Auditors the Company and the Group, As described in the statement of consistently applied and adequately Directors responsibilities, the disclosed.
Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We planned and performed our audit statements in accordance with so as to obtain all the information and applicable United Kingdom law and explanations which we considered accounting standards.
Our necessary in order to provide us with responsibility is to audit the financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements in accordance with assurance that the financial relevant United Kingdom legal and statements are free from material misregulatory requirements, auditing statement, whether caused by fraud standards and the Listing Rules of the or other irregularity or error.
In forming Financial Services Authority.
our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We report to you our opinion as to of information in the financial whether the financial statements give statements.
a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report In our opinion the financial statements if, in our opinion, the Directors Report give a true and fair view of the state is not consistent with the financial of affairs of the Company and the statements, if the Company has not Group as at 31 March 2002 and of the kept proper accounting records, if we profit of the Group for the year then have not received all the information ended and have been properly and explanations we require for our prepared in accordance with the audit, or if information specified by Companies Act 1985. law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Deloitte & Touche Governance statement on page 12 Chartered Accountants and reflects the Companys compliance Registered Auditors with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our Queen Anne House review by the UK Listing Authority, and 69-71 Queen Square we report if it does not.
We are not Bristol BS1 4JP required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control 12 August 2002 cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
