N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 37 Independent auditors report To the shareholders of N Brown Group plc We have audited the financial statements of N Brown Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2002 which comprise the profit and loss account, balance sheets, cash flow statement, statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes numbered 1 to 30.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statements reflect the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the chairmans statement, operating and financial review, directors report, corporate governance statements, remuneration report and the statement of directors responsibilities.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and of the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group at 2 March 2002 and of the groups profit for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Arthur Andersen Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Bank House 9 Charlotte Street Manchester M1 4EU 16 May 2002 N Brown Group plc 37
