Report of the Auditors We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Independent Auditors report to the members of consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
National Express Group PLC This other information comprises the Chairmans statement, We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the Group profit and loss Chief Executives statement, Review of operations, Finance account, Group balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Group Directors report, Corporate governance statement, the statement of cash flows, Group statement of total recognised Directors responsibilities for the accounts, the unaudited part gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements in Group equity of the Report on Directors remuneration and the Directors shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 32.
We consider the implications for our report if we become accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any in the Report on Directors remuneration that is described other information.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Companys members those matters we are required to state to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of to them in an auditors report for no other purpose.
To the the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
It also fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups report, or for the opinions we have formed.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in Report on Directors remuneration and the accounts in accordance order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards assurance that the accounts and the part of the Report on are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Directors remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Report on Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the 2002 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been the accounts and the part of the Report on Directors properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Ernst & Young LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Registered Auditor information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding London Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is 13 March 2003 not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
