15 INDEPENDENT REPORT OF THE AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF PIZZA EXPRESS PLC We have audited the financial statements with the seven provisions of the Combined which comprise the group profit and loss Code specified for our review by the Listing account, the balance sheets, the group cash Rules and we report if it does not.
We are flow statement, the statement of group not required to consider whether the Boards total recognised gains and losses, the statements on internal control cover all risks reconciliation of movements in group and controls, or to form an opinion on the shareholders funds and the related notes.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Respective responsibilities of control procedures.
directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing Basis of audit opinion the Annual Report and the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with statements in accordance with applicable Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing United Kingdom law and accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes standards are set out in the statement of examination, on a test basis, of evidence directors responsibilities.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an Our responsibility is to audit the financial assessment of the significant estimates statements in accordance with relevant legal and judgments made by the directors in and regulatory requirements, United the preparation of the financial statements, Kingdom auditing standards issued by the and of whether the accounting policies Auditing Practices Board and the Listing are appropriate to the Companys Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair We planned and performed our audit so as view and are properly prepared in to obtain all the information and accordance with the United Kingdom explanations which we considered necessary Companies Act.
We also report to you if, in in order to provide us with sufficient our opinion, the report of the directors is not evidence to give reasonable assurance that consistent with the financial statements, if the financial statements are free from the Company has not kept proper material misstatement, whether caused by accounting records, if we have not received fraud or other irregularity or error.
In all the information and explanations we forming our opinion we also evaluated the require for our audit, or if information overall adequacy of the presentation of specified by law or the Listing Rules information in the financial statements.
regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Opinion We read the other information contained in In our opinion the financial statements give the Annual Report and consider the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of implications for our report if we become the Company and the Group as at 30 June aware of any apparent misstatements or 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the material inconsistencies with the financial Group for the year then ended and have statements: the other information comprises been properly prepared in accordance with the Chairmans Report, the Chief Executives the Companies Act 1985.
Report, the Finance Directors Report, the description of the directors and advisors, the  Report on Remuneration, the Report of the Chartered Accountants and Directors and the Corporate Governance Registered Auditors statement.
London We review whether the statement on page 13 reflects the Companys compliance 10 September 2002
