Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis statements for each financial year which give a true and fair unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of continue in business.
the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements, the directors are required to: records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial position of the Company and which enable them consistently: to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prudent: safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Independent auditors report to the members of RAC plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 38 to 71, consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial except for the Five Year Record on page 70.
We consider the implications for our report if we audited the information in the directors remuneration report become aware of any apparent misstatements or material that is described as having been audited.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit state to the Companys members those matters we are required includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors' remuneration report.
As described above We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the this includes responsibility for preparing the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited are Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial directors' remuneration report to be audited.
statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our In our opinion: opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified December 2002 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly We review whether the statement on pages 28 to 29 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, KPMG Audit Plc and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Chartered Accountants whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all Registered Auditor risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and 26 February 2003 control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and RAC plc Annual Report 2002 37
