INDEPENDENT REPORT OF THE AUDITORS to the members of The Rank Group Plc We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover of recognised gains and losses, the statement of movements in all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness shareholders funds, the accounting policies and the related notes.
of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule control procedures.
7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts directors remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the directors or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part Opinion of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared In our opinion: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and the profit if we have not received all the information and explanations we and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 We read the other information contained in the annual report and of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the operating and financial review, the corporate governance statement and other information  LLP included in the contents list.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 28 February 2003 The Rank Group Plc 43
