AUDITORS REPORT We read the other information contained in the Annual report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Independent Auditors' report to the members of and consider the implications for our report if we become aware information and explanations which we considered necessary in Redrow plc of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We have audited the financial statements which comprise the with the financial statements.
The other information comprises assurance that the financial statements are free from material consolidated profit and loss account, the Group and Company only the Directors' report, the Chairman's statement, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Chief Executive's review, the Finance Directors review, the error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall related notes and details of Directors remuneration reported report of the Remuneration committee and the Corporate adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial within the Remuneration report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We review whether the Corporate governance statement Opinion The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual report reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair and the financial statements in accordance with applicable the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to 30 June 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group the statement of Directors' responsibilities.
consider whether the Board's statements on internal control for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing its risk and control procedures.
Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial  Basis of audit opinion Services Authority.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also you if, in our opinion, the Directors' report is not consistent includes an assessment of the significant estimates and with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, proper accounting records, if we have not received all the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Manchester information and explanations we require for our audit, or if are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding 9 September 2002 applied and adequately disclosed.
Directors' remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
