140350 pp54-69 27 2 03 8:42 pm Page 54 COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV We have audited the combined financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures together the combined businesses for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the profit and loss account, the cash flow statement, the balance sheet, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the shareholders funds reconciliation and the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the parts of the directors remuneration report presented in the Annual Reports and Financial Statements the Remuneration Report that are described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom and Dutch accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements including the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors of the combined financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited, are set out in auditing standards generally accepted in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands and by our respective professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the combined financial statements give a true and fair view.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Reports and Financial Statements, as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the combined financial statements.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the combined businesses corporate governance procedures or their risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the combined financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the combined financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the combined financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the combined businesses as at 31 December 2002, and of their profits for the year then ended: and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and also complies with the legal requirements for financial statements as included in Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Deloitte & Touche Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Accountants Registered Auditors Amsterdam London 19 February 2003 19 February 2003 54 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 140350 pp54-69 27 2 03 8:42 pm Page 55 Reed Elsevier PLC formerly Reed International P. L. C. REED ELSEVIER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 56 Financial highlights 57 Directors report 59 Accounting policies 60 Financial statements 64 Notes to the financial statements 70 Independent Auditors report
