Independent Auditors report to the members of RMC Group p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements We read the other information contained Opinion which comprise the Group profit and loss in the Annual Report and consider the In our opinion: account, the Group balance sheet, the implications for our report if we become the financial statements give a true and Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow aware of any apparent misstatements or fair view of the state of affairs of the statement, the Statement of total recognised material inconsistencies with the financial Company and the Group at 31 December gains and losses, the Movements in statements.
The other information comprises 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of shareholders equity funds and the related only those sections set out in the contents the Group for the year then ended: Notes, which have been prepared under the including Financial highlights, Chairmans the financial statements have been accounting policies set out in the Statement of statement, Chief Executives review, Great properly prepared in accordance with Accounting policies.
We have also audited the Britain, Germany, Rest of Europe, United the Companies Act 1985: and disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A States of America, Rest of the World and those parts of the Remuneration report to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Outlook reviews, Finance Directors review, required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Remuneration report the auditable part.
Directors report, Corporate governance, Companies Act 1985 have been properly Group financial review and Supplementary prepared in accordance with the Respective responsibilities of Directors financial information in euros.
Companies Act 1985. and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing We review whether the corporate governance the Annual Report, the Remuneration report statement reflects the Companys compliance  LLP and the financial statements in accordance with the seven provisions of the Combined Chartered Accountants and with applicable United Kingdom law and Code specified for our review by the Listing Registered Auditors accounting standards are set out in the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and London Statement of Directors responsibilities.
We are not required 6 March 2003 Our responsibility is to audit the financial to consider whether the Boards statements on statements and the auditable part of the internal control cover all risks and controls, or Remuneration report in accordance with to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Companys or Groups corporate governance United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by procedures or its risk and control procedures.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for, Basis of audit opinion and only for the Companys members as a We conducted our audit in accordance with body in accordance with Section 235 of the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Companies Act 1985 and for no other Practices Board.
We do not, in giving this opinion, examination, on a test basis, of evidence accept or assume responsibility for any other relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the purpose or to any other person to whom this financial statements and the auditable part of report is shown or into whose hands it may the Remuneration report.
It also includes an come save where expressly agreed by our assessment of the significant estimates and prior consent in writing.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and We report to you our opinion as to whether of whether the accounting policies are the financial statements give a true and fair appropriate to the Companys circumstances, view and whether the financial statements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the auditable part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared in We planned and performed our audit so as accordance with the Companies Act 1985. to obtain all the information and explanations We also report to you if, in our opinion, the which we considered necessary in order to Directors report is not consistent with the provide us with sufficient evidence to give financial statements, if the Company has not reasonable assurance that the financial kept proper accounting records, if we have statements and the auditable part of the not received all the information and Remuneration report are free from material explanations we require for our audit, or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or if information specified by law regarding other irregularity or error.
In forming our Directors remuneration and transactions opinion we also evaluated the overall is not disclosed.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 40
