Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Rotork p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements on pages 28 to 56.
We part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it have also audited the information in the directors remuneration is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the report that is described as having been audited.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statements.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Basis of audit opinion Companys members those matters we are required to state to We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
As described on page 19, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting information and explanations which we considered necessary in standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material our professions ethical guidance.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the presentation of information in the financial statements and the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of not received all the information and explanations we require for our affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared We review whether the statement on page 18 reflects the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if KPMG Audit Plc it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form Bristol an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited 20 March 2003 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 27
