Independent auditors report To the Members of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc: Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of Shire Pharmaceuticals We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of total disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 30.
These remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances of the Group and the Company, consistently applied and adequately This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, disclosed.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the report described as having been audited.
Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Opinion accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation In our opinion: of the other information contained in the Annual Report including the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial affairs of the Group and the Company as at 31 December 2002 statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Deloitte & Touche 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not Chartered Accountants and consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept Registered Auditors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information Reading and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the 1 May 2003 Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
