Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the annual report of Smith & Nephew plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited We have audited the groups accounts for the year ended accounts.
This other information comprises the directors 31 December 2002 which comprise the group profit and responsibilities for the accounts, unaudited part of the loss account, group balance sheet, parent company remuneration report, chairmans statement, chief executives balance sheet, group cash flow statement, group statement statement, financial review, corporate social responsibility of total recognised gains and losses, group reconciliation and corporate governance statement.
We consider the of movements in shareholders funds, accounting policies implications for our report if we become aware of any and the related notes 1 to 33.
These accounts have been apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any therein.
We have also audited the information in the other information.
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards This report is made solely to the companys members, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part so that we might state to the companys members those of the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes matters we are required to state to them in an auditors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to anyone other than the company and the companys to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The the information and explanations which we considered directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and the part of the remuneration report to be audited are are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with of information in the accounts and the part of the relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom remuneration report to be audited.
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group as We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the group for the give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and year then ended: and the financial statements and the part the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the company Ernst & Young LLP has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Registered auditor received all the information and explanations we require for London, 7 February 2003 our audit, or if the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
