Independent auditors report To the shareholders of SOCO Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors International plc As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys We have audited the financial Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in statements of SOCO International plc accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
for the year ended 31 December 2002 They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained which comprise the Profit and loss in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility account, the Balance sheets, the is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Cash flow statement, the Statement report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United of total recognised gains and losses, Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the Statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 29.
These We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true financial statements have been and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors prepared under the accounting remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly policies set out therein.
We have prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, also audited the information in the in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, part of the Directors remuneration if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received report that is described as having all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information been audited.
specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys in accordance with the Companies compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our Act 1985.
Our audit work has been review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if undertaken so that we might state it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on to the Companys members those internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness matters we are required to state to of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual permitted by law, we do not accept report for the above year as described in the contents section including the or assume responsibility to anyone unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications other than the Company and the for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Companys members as a body, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Deloitte & Touche Opinion Chartered Accountants In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of and Registered Auditors affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit London of the Group for the year then ended, and the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been 12 March 2003 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
41 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
