Report of the independent auditors For the year ended 31 December 2002 To the members of Tibbett & Britten Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Tibbett & Britten Group for the year ended 31 December 2002 on pages 32 to 58.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out on pages 39 to 40.
We have also audited the information in the directors' remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors' remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the statement of directors' responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Groups compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the directors' report, the unaudited part of the directors' remuneration report, the chairman's statement, the chief executives review, the financial review and the corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and companys affairs as at 31 December 2002 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
BDO Stoy Hayward Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 25 March 2003 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 59
