TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the financial statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31st December 2002, which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheets, Group Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies, and related notes numbered 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been subject to audit.
This report is made solely to the Companys Members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Members as a body for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is subject to audit in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statements reflect the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and of the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31st December 2002 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended, and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Robert J. Kidney & Co. Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and Registered Auditors Dublin London 9th May 2003
