STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WHITBREAD PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Company Balance Sheet, and the other information comprises the RESPONSIBILITIES related notes 1 to 38.
These financial Chairmans Statement, Operating and statements have been prepared Financial Review and Directors Report.
The following statement, which on the basis of the accounting policies We consider the implications for our should be read in conjunction with set out on pages 26 and 27. report if we become aware of any the auditors statement of their apparent misstatements or material responsibilities below, is made with a RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES inconsistencies with the financial view to distinguishing for shareholders OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS statements.
Our responsibilities do the respective responsibilities of The directors responsibilities for not extend to any other information.
the directors and of the auditors in preparing the Annual Report and the relation to the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION with applicable United Kingdom law We conducted our audit in accordance The directors are required by the and accounting standards are set with United Kingdom Auditing Companies Act 1985 to prepare out in the Statement of Directors Standards issued by the Auditing financial statements for each financial Responsibilities.
An audit includes year which give a true and fair view of examination, on a testbasis, of the state of affairs of the company and Our responsibility is to audit the evidence relevant to the amounts and the group as at the end of the financial financial statements in accordance disclosures in the financial statements.
year and of the profit or loss for the with relevant legal and regulatory It also includes an assessment of the financial year.
requirements, United Kingdom Auditing significant estimates and judgements Standards and the Listing Rules of the made by the directors in the The directors consider that in preparing Financial Services Authority.
preparation of the financial the financial statements on pages 28 statements, and of whether the to 56, the group has used appropriate We report to you our opinion as to accounting policies are appropriate to accounting policies, consistently applied whether the financial statements give the groups circumstances, consistently and supported by reasonable and a true and fair view and are properly applied and adequately disclosed.
prudent judgements and estimates, prepared in accordance with the and that all applicable Accounting Companies Act 1985.
We also report We planned and performed our audit Standards have been followed.
to you if, in our opinion, the Directors so as to obtain all the information Report is not consistent with the and explanations which we considered The directors have responsibility for financial statements, if the company necessary in order to provide us with ensuring that the group keeps has not kept proper accounting sufficient evidence to give reasonable accounting records which disclose records, if we have notreceived all the assurance that the financial with reasonable accuracy the financial information and explanations we statements are free from material position of the group and which require for our audit, or if information misstatement, whether caused by enable them to ensure that the specified by law or the Listing Rules fraud or other irregularity or error.
financial statements comply with regarding directors remuneration In forming our opinion we also the Companies Act 1985. and transactions with the group is evaluated the overall adequacy not disclosed.
of the presentation of information The directors have general in the financial statements.
responsibility for taking such steps We review whether the Corporate as are reasonably open to them to Governance Statement reflects the OPINION safeguard the assets of the group companys compliance with the seven In our opinion the financial statements and to prevent and detect fraud and provisions of the Combined Code give a true and fair view of the state other irregularities.
specified for our review by the Listing of affairs of the company and of the Rules, and we reportif itdoes not.
We group as at 2 March 2002 and of INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO are not required to consider whether the the result of the group for the year THE MEMBERS OF WHITBREAD PLC boards statements on internal control then ended and have been properly cover all risks and controls, or form an prepared in accordance with the We have audited the groups financial opinion on the effectiveness of the Companies Act 1985. statements for the year ended 2 March groups corporate governance procedures 2002 which comprise the Group Profit or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP and Loss Account, Group Statement Registered Auditor of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, We read other information contained London Group Note of Historical Cost Profits in the Annual Report and consider and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, whether it is consistent with the 30 April 2002 Group Cash Flow Statement, Parent audited financial statements.
