Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Wilson Bowden plc We have audited the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2002 which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 24 and the notes to the cash flow statement.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors responsibilities 51 Independent auditors report continued We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31st December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 26th February 2003 52 Independent auditors report Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
