73 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise Basis of audit opinion the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the related notes including the additional disclosures relating to issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the remuneration of the directors specified for our review by the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts UK Financial Services Authority which have been prepared under and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by in the statement of accounting policies.
the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the financial statements in accordance with applicable United information and explanations which we considered necessary Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the directors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable responsibility statement.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the statements.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 July 2002 you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and  transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Temple Court We read the other information contained in the annual report 35 Bull Street and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Birmingham B4 6JT of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 24 September 2002 the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the report of the directors including the corporate governance statement, the chairmans statement and the operating and financial review.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
