Our 2002 financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members whether the Boards statements on internal control of WPP Group plc cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the We have audited the financial statements of WPP Group plc effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash We read the Directors report and the other ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains information contained in the Annual Report for the and losses, the statement of accounting policies and the above year as described in the contents section including related notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have been the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
and consider the implications for our report if we We have also audited the information in the part of the become aware of any apparent misstatements or directors remuneration report that is described as having material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, Basis of audit opinion as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant members those matters we are required to state to them to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the and the part of the directors remuneration report described fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company of the significant estimates and judgements made by the and the Companys members as a body, for our audit directors in the preparation of the financial statements work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, Respective responsibilities of directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain As described in the statement of directors responsibilities all the information and explanations which we considered in the Directors report, the Companys directors are necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence responsible for the preparation of the financial statements to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting and the part of the directors remuneration report described standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation as having been audited are free from material misstatement, of the other information contained in the Annual whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Report including the directors remuneration report.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and adequacy of the presentation of information in the the part of the directors remuneration report described financial statements and the part of the directors as having been audited in accordance with relevant UK remuneration report described as having been audited.
legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: nnancial statements and the part of the directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of remuneration report described as having been audited have the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, for the year then ended: and nthe Directors report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements and part of the directors statements, if the Company has not kept proper remuneration report described as having been audited accounting records, if we have not received all the have been properly prepared in accordance with the information and explanations we require for our audit, Companies Act 1985. or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company Deloitte & Touche and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement London reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 16 May 2003 WPP 2002 133
