REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS To the Members of Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 24 to 45.
We Basis of audit opinion have also examined amounts relating to emoluments, share options, We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards and pension entitlements of the directors which are set out on pages issued by the Auditing Practices board.
An audit includes 18 to 21. examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the described on page 22, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Auditing Practices board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our information in the financial statements.
opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, Opinion if we have not received all the information and explanations we In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing state of affairs of the company and the group as at 31 March 2002 Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the and of the profit of the group for the year then ended and have been group is not disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the statement on pages 17 and 18 reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal controls cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the KPMG Audit Plc implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Chartered Accountants Southampton misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Registered Auditor 13 May 2002 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 23
