16 17a DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements, including adoption of going concern basis Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and In this section of the report, this the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
margin is being used to highlight key information or to explain aspects of After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the financial data.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: COMMENTARY select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The item that is referred to is make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: indicated with the symbol shown on state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and the left.
Please note that the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
information contained in this column The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the has not been audited, but is Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the consistent with other information in Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the document that has been audited.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
FORM 20-F Our principal listing is on the London Stock Exchange, but our shares are also quoted on the Nasdaq National Market as American Depository Receipts and we have a number of US shareholders.
US-domestic 17b companies file their annual business INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACAMBIS PLC overview with their regulator, the US Securities and Exchange Commission, under a Form 10-K. A foreign issuer, We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement, the such as Acambis, files its equivalent Group statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes numbered 1 to 29.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to document under a Form 20-F.
Since the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report the auditable part.
much of the information required in a Form 20-F is already contained in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors our Annual Report, we have The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United combined the two documents and Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
included a section that incorporates Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory any additional information required requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and United States Auditing Standards.
over and above that provided in the Annual Report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is 1a For those US shareholders who are not consistent with the financial statements, if the Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we used to reading a Form 20-F, we have require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
added a fold-out flap inside the back We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or cover of the document that provides material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the sections entitled Our business encompassing the chairmans a cross-reference of Form 20-F items statement, the operating review and the financial review, Further information required by Form 20-F, Summarised Group statements, Shareholder information, to the information in the Report.
We Board of Directors and General information as well as the unaudited comments in the right margin adjacent to the financial statements, the Directors report, the have denoted this Form 20-F unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the corporate governance statement.
information by using this symbol on the left where the number denotes We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Groups compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the the specific item on the crossListing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover reference.
all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS COLUMN HAS NOT BEEN AUDITED.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board, and with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Acambis plc and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements of Acambis plc as of 31 December 2001, and for each of the two years in the period ended 31 December 2001, were audited by other independent accountants who have ceased operations.
Those independent accountants expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements in their report dated 15 April 2002.
Reconciliation to US GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom vary in certain important respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The application of the latter would have affected the determination of consolidated net income for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2002 and the determination of consolidated shareholders equity at 31 December 2002 and 2001 to the extent summarised in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Abacus House Castle Park Cambridge CB3 0AN UK 27 March 2003 17
