Independent auditors report to the members of Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2002 We have audited the financial statements on pages 22 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in to 44. accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Report.
As described on page 19, this includes responsibility significant estimates and judgements made by the directors for preparing the financial statements in accordance with in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the information and explanations which we considered and by our professions ethical guidance.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are statements give a true and fair view and are properly free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of consistent with the financial statements, if the company has information in the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group as at 31 March 2002 and of the loss of the group for group is not disclosed.
the year then ended and have been properly prepared in We review whether the statement on page 20 reflects the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules KPMG Audit Plc and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Chartered Accountants, whether the boards statements on internal control cover all Registered Auditor risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of London the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 11 June 2002 control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
