Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 32 to 59.
We have examined the amounts disclosed relating to the Directors remuneration and share options, which form part of the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described above, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 25 to 27 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities In forming our opinion, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 29 to the financial statements concerning the contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of both the split-capital closed end fund sector generally and the Aberdeen Progressive Growth Unit Trust, and their potential impact on the Groups funding position.
In view of the significance of this uncertainty, we consider that it should be drawn to your attention but our opinion is not qualified in this respect.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor, Aberdeen 21 December 2002 Aberdeen Asset Management 31
