70 BG GROUP PLC 2002 independent auditors report to the members of bg group plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements and Form 20-F in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and the requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only: the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the UK and with Auditing Standards generally accepted in the US.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
UK OPINION In our opinion, the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended, and the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
US OPINION In our opinion, the Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group at 31 December 2002 and 2001 and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years to 31 December 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the UK vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the US.
The application of the latter would have affected the determination of consolidated net income for each of the three years to the period ended 31 December 2002 and the consolidated shareholders funds at 31 December 2002 and 2001 as shown in the summary of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles set out in the statement of accounting policies.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH 21 February 2003
