43 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alliance & Leicester plc We have audited the financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc Basis of Audit Opinion for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 45.
These remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Companys members those matters we are required to state to them to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone report described as having been audited are free from material other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Opinion statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and In our opinion: accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of of the other information contained in the annual report including affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having Deloitte & Touche been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Birmingham directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not 20 February 2003 received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
