report of auditor report of the auditor to the basis of audit opinion members of The Alliance We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Trust PLC Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit We have audited the financial statements on pages 31 to 42. includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates respective responsibilities of the and judgements made by the directors in the preparation directors and the auditor of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Report.
As described on page 28, this includes consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent the information and explanations which we considered auditor, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements give a true and fair view and are properly information in the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is opinion not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair have not received all the information and explanations we view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company require for our audit, or if information specified by law or as at 31 January 2002 and of the return for the year then the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 21 to 30 reflect the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the KPMG Audit Plc Combined Code specified for our review by the Financial Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Saltire Court required to consider whether the Boards statements on Edinburgh internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an EH1 2EG opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 18 March 2002 governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
