Independent Auditors Report to the Members of BHP Billiton Plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 71 to 168.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards We have also examined the amounts disclosed relating to issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes emoluments, share option schemes, long-term incentive scheme examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts interests and pension benefits of the Directors, which form the and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58. assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Respective responsibilities of the Directors the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and and the joint auditors of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
As described on page 68, this includes responsibility for preparing We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the financial statements in accordance with applicable United information and explanations which we considered necessary Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by assurance that the financial statements are free from material statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall guidance.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared Opinion in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has 30 June 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in the information and explanations we require for our audit, accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 38 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether KPMG Audit Plc the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Chartered Accountants and registered auditor controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups London, 9 September 2002 corporate governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with  the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and registered auditors London, 9 September 2002 69
