Board of directors Pehr Gyllenhammar 67 Chairman director of Methodist Ministers Pension Trust Limited and Epworth Appointed to the board in 1997, becoming chairman in 1998.
Sir Michael will retire from the Former executive chairman of AB Volvo.
Currently a senior adviser board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Member of the to Lazard Freres & Co. LLC, chairman of the Trustees of Reuters audit committee.
Founders Share Company Limited and of Swedish Ships Mortgage Philip Scott FIA 49 Executive director Bank and a non-executive director of Lagardre SCA.
Chairman of Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Union in the nomination committee.
1973, held a number of senior positions and was appointed to the Richard Harvey FIA 52 Group Chief Executive board of Norwich Union in 1993.
He was the chief executive of Appointed group chief executive in April 2001, having been Norwich Union Life Avivas UK life and long-term savings business previously appointed to the board as deputy group chief executive until September 2002, at which time he became executive in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Union in 1992, holding senior chairman of Norwich Union Life.
positions in New Zealand and the United Kingdom before joining Patrick Snowball 52 Executive director the Norwich Union board in 1995 and becoming group Appointed to the board in March 2001 as chief executive of chief executive of Norwich Union in 1998.
Member of the Norwich Union Insurance Avivas general insurance operation in nomination committee.
He was previously a director of Norwich Union, appointed George Paul DL 63 Deputy Chairman and non-executive director in October 1999, having joined that company in 1989.
Appointed to the board in May 2000 as deputy chairman.
Derek Stevens 64 Non-executive director Joined the Norwich Union board as a non-executive director in Appointed to the board in 1995.
A former director and chief 1990, becoming chairman in 1994.
Non-executive chairman of financial officer of British Airways Plc, a former finance director Agricola Group Limited and of Fleming Overseas Investment of TSB Group plc and a former chairman of the Trustees of British Trust plc and a non-executive director of Notcutts Limited.
Currently chairman of the Airline Group A former chairman and chief executive officer of Harrisons & Limited, a director of NATS Holdings Limited and a member of the Crosfield plc.
Senior non-executive director, chairman of the Council of the Institute of Education at the University of London.
remuneration committee and member of the audit committee.
Chairman of the audit committee and chairman of Aviva Staff Mike Biggs ACA 50 Executive director Pension Trustee Limited.
Appointed group finance director in March 2001 having been Philip Twyman FIA, FIAA 58 Executive director previously appointed to the board in May 2000 as executive Appointed to the board in June 1998.
Joined the board of General director responsible for the general insurance operations in the UK.
Accident in 1996 as executive director responsible for finance, life Joined Norwich Union in 1991 and the Norwich Union board in and investment operations.
Held a number of executive appointments in Norwich international and fund management operations.
Union, becoming finance director in 1997.
Elizabeth Vallance 57 Non-executive director Guillermo fide la Dehesa 61 Non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich Union as a non-executive director in 1995.
Currently chairman of Union as a non-executive director in 1999.
Former chief executive the NHS Advisory Committee on Distinction Awards, Fellow of and director of Banco Pastor.
A former deputy governor of the Queen Mary College, University of London, chairman of the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Bank and a Council of the Institute of Education, University of London, former deputy general manager of the Bank of Spain and Secretary non-executive director of Charter Pan European Trust plc and a of State of Finance in Spain.
Currently non-executive chairman of former non-executive director of HMV Group Limited.
Member Avivas operations in Spain, non-executive vice-chairman of of the remuneration and nomination committees.
Goldman Sachs Europe and a director of Campofrio, Unin Elctrica Fenosa, Bank Santander Central Hispano and Telepizza.
Andr Villeneuve 58 Non-executive director Member of the audit and nomination committees.
Appointed to the board in 1996.
A non-executive director of United Technologies Corporation.
A former chairman of Instinet Wim Dik 64 Non-executive director Corporation and executive director of Reuters plc.
Member of Appointed to the board in 1999, having served as a chairman the remuneration committee.
of Nuts Ohra, a Dutch insurer acquired by the group in 1999.
A former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven BV and Tony Wyand 59 Executive director former chairman and chief executive officer of KPN, Royal Dutch Appointed to the board in 1987.
Joined Commercial Union in Telecom.
Currently a member of the Supervisory Board of ABN 1971 and worked for the group in the UK, the United States and AMRO Bank and TNT Post Group, an advisory member of the France.
Currently responsible for Avivas operations in continental boards of Unilever and a non-executive director of LogicaCMG plc Europe and Ireland.
A non-executive director of Socit Gnrale, and Vos Logistics.
Member of the remuneration committee.
UniCredito Italiano two companies with which Aviva has joint venture arrangements and Grosvenor Group Holdings Limited.
Sir Michael Partridge KCB 67 Non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Richard Whitaker LLB, FCII Norwich Union as a non-executive director in 1996.
Former Group Company Secretary permanent secretary, Department of Social Security, non-executive 29 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
