Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the Group We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheets and the reflects the Companys compliance with the seven Cash Flow Statement and notes 1 to 27. provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors not required to consider whether the Boards statements The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form report and the accounts in accordance with applicable an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
This opinion has been prepared for also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and only for the Companys members in accordance with and judgements made by the directors in the preparation Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all prior consent in writing.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not information in the accounts.
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Opinion audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at is not disclosed.
31 October 2002 and of the total return and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly We read the other information contained in the annual prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information  comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Portfolio Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Review, the Report of the Directors and the Corporate London Governance statement.
3 January 2003 The accounts are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work we carry out as auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following their initial presentation on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
