BBS00031P Inners2 21 2 03 11:01 PM Page 44 44 Bradford & Bingley plc 45 Bradfor Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Independent auditors report Co for the year to the shareholders of Bradford & Bingley plc We have audited the Financial Statements and we report if it does not.
We are not Opinion on pages 45 to 81.
We have also audited the required to consider whether the Boards In our opinion: Interest re information in the Directors Remuneration statements on internal control cover all risks the Financial Statements give a true and fair Report on pages 39 to 42. and controls, or form an opinion on the Interest view of the state of affairs of the Company effectiveness of the Groups corporate Other in and the Group as at 31 December 2002 This report is made solely to the Companys governance procedures or its risk and and of the profit of the Group for the year Interest p shareholders, as a body, in accordance with control procedures.
then ended: and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Net intere the Financial Statements and the part of the audit work has been undertaken so that we We read the other information contained in Fees and Directors Remuneration Report to be might state to the Companys shareholders the Annual Report & Accounts, including the audited have been properly prepared in Fees and those matters we are required to state to corporate governance statement and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. them in an auditors report and for no other unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Other op purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Report, and consider whether it is consistent KPMG Audit Plc Operating law, we do not accept or assume responsibility with the audited Financial Statements.
We Chartered Accountants to anyone other than the Company and the consider the implications for our report if we Administr Registered Auditor companys shareholders as a body, for our become aware of any apparent misstatements On-goin Leeds audit work, for this report, or for the opinions or material inconsistencies with the Financial Exceptio 17 February 2003 we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors Basis of audit opinion and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with Depreciat The Directors are responsible for preparing Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Provisions the Annual Report & Accounts.
An audit includes on page 43, this includes responsibility for examination, on a test basis, of evidence Operating preparing the Financial Statements in relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Share of o accordance with applicable United Kingdom Financial Statements.
It also includes an law and accounting standards.
Our assessment of the significant estimates and Profit on responsibilities, as independent auditors, are judgements made by the Directors in the Tax on pr established in the United Kingdom by statute, preparation of the Financial Statements, and of the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules whether the accounting policies are Profit on of the Financial Services Authority, and by our appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Minority i professions ethical guidance.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Profit attr We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit so as to Dividends the Financial Statements give a true and fair obtain all the information and explanations view and are properly prepared in accordance which we considered necessary in order to Profit reta with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report provide us with sufficient evidence to give to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report reasonable assurance that the Financial is not consistent with the Financial Statements, Statements and the part of the Directors Earnings p if the Company has not kept proper Remuneration Report to be audited are free Basic earn accounting records, if we have not received all from material misstatement, whether caused Diluted ea the information and explanations we require by fraud or other irregularity or error.
for our audit, or if information specified by law All results regarding Directors remuneration and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the There we transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of The notes We review whether the statement on page information in the Financial Statements and 34 reflects the Companys compliance with the part of the Directors Remuneration the seven provisions of the Combined Code Report to be audited.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules,
