Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Responsibility Statement and Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the revenue of the Group for that period.
They are also responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are maintained and that the assets of the Company and the Group are safeguarded and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements.
Applicable UK accounting standards have been followed.
Independent Auditors Report to the shareholders of British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002 which comprise the Statement of Total Return of the Group, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for audit or if the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Company Summary, Financial Highlights Statement, The Companys History, Historical Record, Investment Managers Review, Investment Portfolio, Capital Structure, Board of Directors, Directors Responsibility Statement, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting and Company Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
47 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Directors Responsibility Statement and Independent Auditors Report continued Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 30 September 2002 and of the revenue of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP 21 November 2002 Registered Auditor London 48
