Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state above requirements.
of affairs of the Company and of the net revenue of the The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper Company for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable directors are required to: accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the consistently: Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking prudent: reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and state whether applicable accounting standards have been other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Independent Auditors Report to the members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for the Review, Investment Review, Financial Review and Shareholder year ended 30 June 2002 which comprise the Statement of Total Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and notes 1 to 28. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material These Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities the accounting policies set out therein.
do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
to the amount and disclosures in the Accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in the directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or accounting records, if we have not received all the information error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors Statements.
remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
Opinion We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects In our opinion the Financial Statements give a true and fair view the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the of the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June 2002 and of Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and its total return for the year then ended and have been properly we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control ERNST & YOUNG LLP procedures.
Registered Auditor London We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 3 September 2002 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the Directors 19
