Report by the independent auditors To the members of The BOC Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the total recognised gains and losses, the movement in shareholders funds, the balance sheet of The BOC Group plc, Group undertakings, accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also examined the amounts disclosed relating to the remuneration, share options and long-term incentive schemes interests of the directors which form part of the report on remuneration.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Form 20-F and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This opinion has been prepared for, and only for, the companys members in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial highlights, chairmans statement, chief executives review, board of directors, executive management board, Group five year record, Group profile, employees, safety, health and the environment, research, development and information technology, risk factors, performance review, finance and treasury review, responsibility of the directors, dividends, nature of trading market, analysis of shareholdings, taxation, financial calendar, key contacts information, cross reference to Form 20-F and glossary of terms.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and with Auditing Standards generally accepted in the United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
United Kingdom opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group at 30 September 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
United States opinion In our opinion the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at 30 September 2002 and 2001 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 30 September 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The application of the latter would have affected the determination of net income expressed in sterling for each of the three years in the period ended 30 September 2002 and the determination of shareholders equity also expressed in sterling at 30 September 2002 and 2001 to the extent summarised in note 16 to the financial statements.
As shown in note 17 to the financial statements, the Group adopted two new accounting standards, for retirement benefits and deferred tax, in 2002.
The change has been accounted for by restating comparative information at 30 September 2001 and 2000 and for the years then ended.
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, England 22 November 2002 65 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
