INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COX INSURANCE HOLDINGS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Committees report the auditable part.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Committees report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committees report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committees report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committees report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Finance Directors review and the Corporate Governance report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committees report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committees report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
FUNDAMENTAL UNCERTAINTY In forming our opinion we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 29 to the Financial Statements concerning the uncertainty in respect of claims outstanding and related reinsurance and subrogation recoveries resulting from the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001 in the United States.
In view of the significance of this uncertainty we consider that it should be drawn to your attention but our opinion is not qualified in this respect.
OPINION In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of its profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the Remuneration Committees report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 8 April 2003 Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 35
