Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bodycote International plc We have audited the financial statements of Bodycote International Plc for We read the directors report and the other information contained in the the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the profit and loss annual report for the above year as described in the contents section account, the balance sheets, the cash ow statement, the statement of including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 26 together consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent with the reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt, the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the accounting policies.
Basis of audit opinion These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the company and company and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information or for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information information contained in the annual report including the directors in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements report described as having been audited.
and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having Opinion been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the company and the group as at 31 December 2002 and of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the profit and cash ows of the group for the year then ended: and part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not accordance with the Companies Act 1985. kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Deloitte & Touche company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Chartered Accountants Manchester specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Registered Auditors 18 March 2003 Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
