Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of We read the other information contained in the Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report, including the corporate governance We have audited the financial statements on pages statement, and consider whether it is consistent with 17 to 26. the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Respective responsibilities of directors and any apparent misstatements or material auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on page 15, this Basis of audit opinion includes responsibility for preparing financial We conducted our audit in accordance with statements in accordance with applicable United Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Kingdom law and accounting standards.
An audit includes examination, on a test responsibilities, as independent auditors, are basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and established in the United Kingdom by statute, the disclosures in the financial statements.
It also Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the includes an assessment of the significant estimates Financial Services Authority, and by our professions and judgements made by the directors in the ethical guidance.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We report to you our opinion as to whether the the companys circumstances, consistently applied financial statements give a true and fair view and are and adequately disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain our opinion, the directors report is not consistent all the information and explanations which we with the financial statements, if the company has considered necessary in order to provide us with not kept proper accounting records, if we have not sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that received all the information and explanations we the financial statements are free from material require for our audit, or if information specified by misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other law or the Listing Rules regarding directors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also remuneration and transactions with the company is evaluated the overall presentation of information in not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 11 to 13 Opinion reflects the companys compliance with the seven In our opinion the financial statements give a true provisions of the Combined Code specified for our and fair view of the state of affairs of the company review by the Financial Services Authority, and we as at 31 January 2002 and of the return for the year report if it does not.
We are not required to consider then ended and have been properly prepared in whether the boards statements on internal control accordance with the Companies Act 1985. cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate KPMG Audit Plc governance procedures or its risk and control Chartered Accountants procedures.
Registered Auditor Edinburgh, 13 March 2002 PAGE 16 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
