48 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Independent auditors report to the members of Egg plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 49 We read the other information contained in the Annual to 85.
We have also audited the information in the Report, including the corporate governance statement directors remuneration report that is described as and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration having been audited.
report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the This report is made solely to the Companys members, implications for our report if we become aware of any as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been with the financial statements.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Basis of audit opinion in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of and the Companys members as a body, for our audit evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements The directors are responsible for preparing the made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are As described on page 32, this includes responsibility appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently for preparing the financial statements in accordance applied and adequately disclosed.
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the the information and explanations which we considered Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Financial Services Authority, and by our professions to give reasonable assurance that the financial ethical guidance.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall financial statements and the part of the directors adequacy of the presentation of information in the remuneration report to be audited have been properly financial statements and the part of the directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration report to be audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if Opinion the Company has not kept proper accounting records, In our opinion: if we have not received all the information and the financial statements give a true and fair view of explanations we require for our audit, or if information the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as specified by law regarding directors remuneration and at 31 December 2002 and of the loss of the Group transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
for the year then ended: and We review whether the statement on pages 32 to 35 the financial statements and the part of the directors reflects the Companys compliance with the seven remuneration report to be audited have been properly provisions of the Combined Code specified for our prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the KPMG Audit Plc Boards statements on internal control cover all risks Chartered Accountants and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Registered Auditor of the Groups corporate governance procedures or 21 February 2002 its risk and control procedures.
