Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We read the other information contained in the annual statement of total return, the balance sheet and the cash flow report and consider the implications for our report if we statement and notes 1 to 23 which have been prepared under become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation inconsistencies with the financial statements.
of certain fixed assets, and the accounting policies set out in The other information comprises only the Chairmans the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the statement, the investment managers report, the unaudited disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the part of the directors remuneration report, the directors Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report, and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing the directors remuneration report and the financial statements Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or responsibilities.
to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the procedures.
auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, Basis of audit opinion United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to includes an assessment of the significant estimates and any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies consent in writing.
are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial applied and adequately disclosed.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the auditable part of the directors information and explanations which we considered necessary remuneration report have been properly prepared in in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free with the financial statements, if the company has not kept from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other proper accounting records, if we have not received all the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration financial statements.
and transactions is not disclosed.
23 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs at 31 December 2002 and of its total return and cash flows for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 24 February 2003 24
