Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of The We read other information contained in the Annual Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust plc Report and consider whether it is consistent with the We have audited the Companys financial statements for audited financial statements.
This other information the year ended 31st December 2002 which comprise the comprises the Chairmans Statement, Investment Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Managers Report, Facts, Figures, Performance, Financial Statement, notes i to vi and the related notes 1 to 20.
Record, Ten Largest Investments, Features of the These financial statements have been prepared on the Portfolio, Sector and Shareholder Analyses, List of basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Investments, Board of Directors, Directors Report, also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report, Directors Responsibilities in Remuneration Report that is described as having been Respect of the Accounts, Notice of Annual General audited.
Meeting, Information about the Company and Investing through JPMorgan Fleming.
We consider the implications This report is made solely to the Companys members, as for our report if we become aware of any apparent a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend might state to the Companys members those matters we to any other information.
are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Basis of audit opinion law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We conducted our audit in accordance with United other than the Company and the Companys members as Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test opinions we have formed.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with applicable United the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be information and explanations which we considered audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming statements give a true and fair view and whether the our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements and the part of the Directors presentation of information in the financial statements and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Opinion Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we In our opinion: have not received all the information and explanations we the financial statements give a true and fair view of the require for our audit, or if information specified by law or state of affairs of the Company as at 31st December the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and 2002 and of its revenue for the year then ended: and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly reflects the Companys compliance with the seven prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an ERNST & YOUNG LLP opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Registered Auditor London, 7th March 2003 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
