Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of comprises the Chairmans Statement, Investment The Fleming Continental European Investment Managers Report, Facts, Figures, Performance, Trust plc Financial Record, Ten Largest Investments, We have audited the Companys accounts for the Features of the Portfolio, Portfolio Analysis, year ended 31st March 2002 which comprise the Shareholder Analysis, List of Investments, Board of Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Directors, Directors Report, Directors Flow Statement, notes i to vii and the related notes Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, Notice 1 to 18.
These accounts have been prepared on the of Meeting, Information about the Company and basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware Respective responsibilities of Directors and of any apparent misstatements or material Auditors inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our The Directors responsibilities for preparing the responsibilities do not extend to any other Annual Report and the accounts in accordance information.
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement Basis of audit opinion of Directors Responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes accordance with relevant legal and regulatory examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services also includes an assessment of the significant Authority.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether We report to you our opinion as to whether the the accounting policies are appropriate to the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly Companys circumstances, consistently applied prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and adequately disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain if the Company has not kept proper accounting all the information and explanations which we records, if we have not received all the information considered necessary in order to provide us with and explanations we require for our audit, or if sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance information specified by law or the Listing Rules that the accounts are free from material regarding Directors remuneration and transactions misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other with the company is not disclosed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We review whether the Corporate Governance of information in the accounts.
statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Opinion specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view we report if it does not.
We are not required to of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st consider whether the Boards statements on March 2002 and of its net revenue for the year then internal control cover all risks and controls, or form ended and have been properly prepared in an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys accordance with the Companies Act 1985. corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with ERNST& YOUNG LLP the audited accounts.
This other information Registered Auditor London, 14th June 2002 Fleming Continental European 31
