Independent Auditors Report To the Members of The Fleming Japanese Basis of audit opinion Investment Trust plc We conducted our audit in accordance with the We have audited the financial statements on pages Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing 24 to 36 which have been prepared under the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on historical cost convention, as modified to include a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the revaluation of the investments, and on the and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also basis of the accounting policies set out on page 27. includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Respective responsibilities of Directors and in the preparation of the financial statements, and Auditors of whether the accounting policies are appropriate The Directors responsibility for preparing the to the Companys circumstances, consistently annual report and financial statements in applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law We planned and performed our audit so as to and accounting standards are set out in the obtain all the information and explanations which statement of Directors responsibilities on page 21. we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements in accordance with relevant legal and assurance that the financial statements are free regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing from material misstatement, whether caused by Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Services Authority.
opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of We report to you our opinion as to whether the the presentation of information in the financial financial statements give a true and fair view and statements.
are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in Opinion our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent In our opinion, the financial statements give a true with the financial statements, if the Company has and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs not kept proper accounting records, if we have not as at 30th September 2002 and of its total return received all the information and explanations we and cash flows for the year then ended and have require for our audit, or if information specified by been properly prepared in accordance with the law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
BEGBIES EVERETT CHETTLE Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for London, 12th November 2002 our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
