Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors report to the members of we report if it does not.
We are not required to The Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc consider whether the Boards statements on We have audited the financial statements which internal control cover all risks and controls, or to comprise the statement of total return, the balance form an opinion on the effectiveness of the sheet, the cash flow statement and the related Companys corporate governance procedures or its notes.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Basis of Audit Opinion Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with The Directors responsibilities for preparing the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices annual report and the financial statements in Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test accordance with applicable United Kingdom law basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and accounting standards are set out in the disclosures in the financial statements.
It also statement of Directors responsibilities.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in the preparation of the financial statements, and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory of whether the accounting policies are appropriate requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards to the Companys circumstances, consistently issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the applied and adequately disclosed.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We planned and performed our audit so as to We report to you our opinion as to whether the obtain all the information and explanations which financial statements give a true and fair view and we considered necessary in order to provide us are properly prepared in accordance with the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in assurance that the financial statements are free our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent from material misstatement, whether caused by with the financial statements, if the Company has fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our not kept proper accounting records, if we have not opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of received all the information and explanations we the presentation of information in the financial require for our audit, or if information specified by statements.
law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true We read the other information contained in the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company annual report and consider the implications for our at 30th June 2002 and of its total return and cash report if we become aware of any apparent flows for the year then ended and have been misstatements or material inconsistencies with the properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements.
The other information Companies Act 1985. comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report and the Directors Report, including the corporate governance statement.
 We review whether the corporate governance Chartered Accountants statement reflects the Companys compliance with and Registered Auditors the seven provisions of the Combined Code London, 23rd September 2002 specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and Fleming Overseas 29
