Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 Independent Auditors Report 19 To the members of Foreign & consider the implications for our report We planned and performed our Colonial Eurotrust PLC if we become aware of any apparent audit so as to obtain all the information We have audited the financial statemisstatements or material inconsisand explanations which we considered ments which comprise the statement of tencies with the financial statements.
necessary in order to provide us with total return, the balance sheet and the The other information comprises sufficient evidence to give reasonable cash flow statement and notes 1 to 23. only the Report of the Directors, the assurance that the financial statements Chairmans Statement, the Managers are free from material misstatement, Respective Responsibilities of Review and the corporate governance whether caused by fraud or other Directors and Auditors statement.
In forming our The Directors responsibilities for We review whether the corporate opinion we also evaluated the overall preparing the annual report and the governance statement reflects the adequacy of the presentation of financial statements in accordance with Companys compliance with the seven information in the financial statements.
applicable United Kingdom law and provisions of the Combined Code accounting standards are set out in the specified for our review by the Listing Opinion statement of Directors responsibilities.
Rules, and we report if it does not.
We In our opinion the financial statements Our responsibility is to audit the are not required to consider whether give a true and fair view of the state of financial statements in accordance with the Boards statements on internal the Companys affairs at 30 September relevant legal and regulatory control cover all risks and controls, or 2002 and of its total return and cash requirements, United Kingdom Auditing to form an opinion on the effectiveness flows for the year then ended and have Standards issued by the Auditing of the Companys corporate goverbeen properly prepared in accordance Practices Board and the Listing Rules finance procedures or its risk and with the Companies Act 1985. of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a Basis of Audit Opinion  Chartered Accountants and true and fair view and are properly We conducted our audit in accordance Registered Auditors prepared in accordance with the with auditing standards issued by the Southwark Towers 32 London Bridge Street Companies Act 1985.
We also report Auditing Practices Board.
An audit London SE1 9SY to you if, in our opinion, the Report of includes examination, on a test basis, of the Directors is not consistent with the evidence relevant to the amounts and 8 November 2002 financial statements, if the Company disclosures in the financial statements.
It has not kept proper accounting also includes an assessment of the records, if we have not received all the significant estimates and judgements information and explanations we made by the Directors in the preparation require for our audit, or if information of the financial statements, and of specified by law or the Listing Rules whether the accounting policies are regarding Directors remuneration and appropriate to the Companys circumtransactions is not disclosed.
stances, consistently applied and We read the other information adequately disclosed.
contained in the annual report and
