Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to have been properly prepared in disclosures in the financial statements the members of Foreign & accordance with the Companies Act and the auditable part of the Directors Colonial Investment Trust PLC 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Remuneration Report.
It also includes an We have audited the financial statements opinion, the Report of the Directors is not assessment of the significant estimates which comprise the statement of total consistent with the financial statements, if and judgements made by the Directors in return, the balance sheet, the cash flow the Company has not kept proper the preparation of the financial statement and the related notes.
We have accounting records, if we have not statements, and of whether the also audited the disclosures required by received all the information and accounting policies are appropriate to the Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies explanations we require for our audit, or if Companys circumstances, consistently Act 1985 contained in the Directors information specified by law regarding applied and adequately disclosed.
Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Directors remuneration and transactions We planned and performed our audit Respective responsibilities of is not disclosed.
so as to obtain all the information and Directors and auditors We read the other information explanations which we considered The Directors responsibilities for contained in the annual report and necessary in order to provide us with preparing the annual report, the Directors consider the implications for our report if sufficient evidence to give reasonable Remuneration Report and the financial we become aware of any apparent assurance that the financial statements statements in accordance with applicable misstatements or material inconsistencies and the auditable part of the Directors United Kingdom law and accounting with the financial statements.
The other Remuneration Report are free from standards are set out in the statement of information comprises only the material misstatement, whether caused by Directors responsibilities.
Chairmans Statement, the Managers fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Our responsibility is to audit the Review, the Report of the Directors, the forming our opinion we also evaluated the financial statements and the auditable part Directors Remuneration Report other than overall adequacy of the presentation of of the Directors Remuneration Report in the auditable part, and the corporate information in the financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and governance statement.
Opinion regulatory requirements and United We review whether the corporate In our opinion: the financial statements Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by governance statement reflects the give a true and fair view of the state of the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, Companys compliance with the seven affairs of the Company at 31 December including the opinion, has been prepared provisions of the Combined Code 2002 and of the total return and cash for and only for the Companys members specified for our review by the Listing flows of the Company for the year then as a body in accordance with Section Rules of the Financial Services Authority, ended: the financial statements have 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for and we report if it does not.
We are not been properly prepared in accordance no other purpose.
We do not, in giving required to consider whether the Boards with the Companies Act 1985: and those this opinion, accept or assume statements on internal control cover all parts of the Directors Remuneration responsibility for any other purpose or to risks and controls, or to form an opinion Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A any other person to whom this report is on the effectiveness of the Companys to the Companies Act 1985 have been shown or into whose hands it may come corporate governance procedures or its properly prepared in accordance with the save where expressly agreed by our prior risk and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985. consent in writing.
Basis of audit opinion  LLP We report to you our opinion as to We conducted our audit in accordance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether the financial statements give a with auditing standards issued by the London true and fair view and whether the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit 27 February 2003 financial statements and the auditable part includes examination, on a test basis, of of the Directors Remuneration Report evidence relevant to the amounts and Report and Accounts 2002 25
