AUDITORS REPORT FP013 p46 100 26 3 03 2:46 pm Page 46 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 46 OF FRIENDS PROVIDENT PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Basis of audit opinion Friends Provident plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the We have audited the financial statements, which comprise the profit and loss Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, and the related notes of relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Friends Provident plc which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 of the financial statements, and, of whether the accounting policies are appropriate contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material directors responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information The maintenance and integrity of the Friends Provident plc website is the responsibility in the financial statements.
of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Opinion changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially In our opinion: presented on the website.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the loss and cash flows financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the Group for the year then ended.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Companies Act 1985. requirements and United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the Companies Act 1985. accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the  LLP Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper London accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations 4 March 2003 we require for our audit or, if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the remuneration report of the Board, the chairmans statement, the Group chief executives review, the business and financial reviews, the corporate social responsibility statement and the corporate governance report.
We review whether the corporate governance report reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
