54 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued Pension increases after retirement are a mixture of guaranteed and discretionary.
Scheme pensions in respect of service before 6 April 1997 are not guaranteed to increase.
Scheme pensions in respect of service after 5 April 1997 are guaranteed to increase in line with the Retail Prices Index, subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
The Fund guarantees to increase pensions in line with the Retail Prices Index, subject to a maximum of 5% per annum and a minimum of 3% per annum.
There is an established policy of reviewing pensions on a discretionary basis taking account of increases in the Retail Prices Index.
Allowance is made in transfer values on leaving in respect of the guaranteed and discretionary increases outlined above.
The pension entitlements of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Table 3 Accrued Increase in Increase in pension accrued Transfer value at transfer value at 31 pension less December during 31 December 31 December Directors 2002 2002 2001 2002 contributions Name Age 000 p. a.
Note 2: The increase in accrued pension is the accrued pension at 31 December 2002 less the accrued pension at 31 December 2001.
The amount shown in square brackets is calculated on the basis of the disclosure methodology which applied last year under the requirements of the Listing Requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Note 3: The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 31 December 2001 and at 31 December 2002 and are calculated as at 31 December 2001 and 31 December 2002 respectively based on factors supplied by the actuaries of the relevant pension schemes.
The transfer values are the lump sums which would have been paid to another pension scheme for the benefit of the Director had he left service at the respective dates.
It is not possible for a transfer value to be paid directly to the Director personally.
Note 4: The Directors contribution is the personal contribution required under the terms of the Fund.
No personal contribution is required under the terms of the Scheme.
The contribution for James Crosby is an aggregate of the personal contribution required under the terms of the Fund, subject to the statutory limit, together with the amount of salary he gave up as an additional pension contribution as outlined in Note 5 to Table 1.
Members of the Groups pension schemes have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
There were no contributions by the Group to any money purchase pension arrangements in respect of any Director during 2002.
