Report of the Auditor To the members of Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust plc We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for comprises the Report of the Directors, Chairmans the year ended 31 May 2002 which comprise the Statement, Investment Managers Review and Corporate Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for Statement and notes 1 to 24.
These Financial Statements our report if we become aware of any apparent have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies misstatements or material inconsistencies with the set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Basis of audit opinion Report and Financial Statements in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with United applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amount and disclosures Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in in the Accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory significant estimates and judgements made by the requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial adequately disclosed.
Statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the the information and explanations which we considered Directors is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if to give reasonable assurance that the Financial we have not received all the information and explanations Statements are free from material misstatement, whether we require for our audit, or if the information specified by caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Opinion reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions In our opinion the Financial Statements give a true and of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to May 2002 and of its total return for the year then ended consider whether the Boards statements on internal control and have been properly prepared in accordance with the cover all risks and controls, form an opinion on the Companies Act 1985. effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP We read the other information contained in the Annual Registered Auditor London Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
