HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Independent auditors report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 190 to 313.
We have also audited certain of the information in the directors remuneration report that is required to be audited by the Companies Act 1985: this information is set out on pages 180 to 186.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Annual Report on Form 20-F and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 187, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards: the Directors have also presented additional information under US requirements.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom and the auditing standards generally accepted in the United States, the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you in our United Kingdom opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report required to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if HSBC Holdings has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings HSBC is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 162 to 164 reflects HSBC Holdings compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of HSBCs corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit of the financial statements in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom and those generally accepted in the United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to HSBCs circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We conducted our audit of the part of the directors remuneration report required to be audited by the Companies Act 1985 in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report required to be audited by the Companies Act 1985 are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report required to be audited by the Companies Act 1985.
188 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Independent auditors report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc United Kingdom opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of HSBC Holdings and HSBC as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of HSBC for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report required to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
United States opinion In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of HSBC and HSBC Holdings as at 31 December 2002 and 2001, and the results of HSBCs operations and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2002, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom.
Generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom vary in certain significant respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States would have affected HSBCs results of operations for each of the years in the three-year period ended 31 December 2002 and the shareholders equity as of 31 December 2002 and 2001 to the extent summarised in Note 50 of Notes on the Financial Statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 3 March 2003 Registered Auditor Chartered Accountants, London 189
