ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 27 We have audited the Financial Basis of audit opinion We conducted Statements on pages 28 to 61 which our audit in accordance with Auditing have been prepared under the historical Standards issued by the Auditing cost convention and the accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes Independent Auditors Report policies set out on pages 34 to 36. examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Respective responsibilities of directors in the Financial Statements.
It also and auditors The directors are includes an assessment of the significant responsible for preparing the Financial estimates and judgements made by the Statements.
As described on page 16, this directors in the preparation of the includes responsibility for preparing the Financial Statements, and of whether the Financial Statements, in accordance with accounting policies are appropriate to applicable United Kingdom accounting the Companys circumstances, standards.
Our responsibilities, as consistently applied and adequately independent auditors, are established in disclosed.
the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing We planned and performed our audit so Rules of the Financial Services Authority as to obtain all the information and and our professions ethical guidance.
explanations which we consider necessary in order to provide us with We report to you our opinion as to sufficient evidence to give reasonable whether the Financial Statements give assurance that the Financial Statements a true and fair view and are properly are free from material misstatement, prepared in accordance with the United whether caused by fraud or other Kingdom Companies Act.
We also report irregularity or error.
In forming our to you if, in our opinion, the directors opinion, we also evaluated the overall report is not consistent with the Financial adequacy of the presentation of Statements, if the Company has not kept information in the Financial Statements.
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Opinion In our opinion, the Financial explanations we require for our audit, or Statements give a true and fair view of if information specified by law or the the state of affairs of the Company and Listing Rules regarding directors the Group as at 31 March 2002 and of remuneration and transactions is not the profit and cash flows of the Group disclosed.
for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the We read the other information contained Companies Act 1985. in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or  Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors material inconsistencies with the London Financial Statements.
28 May 2002 We review whether the statement on pages 17 to 19 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
