Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 45 Report & Accounts 2002 Independent auditors report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc For the year ended 31st December, 2002 We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit to consider whether the boards statements on internal and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures notes which have been prepared under the historical cost or its risk and control procedures.
convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of Basis of audit opinion accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of directors remuneration report and the financial statements in the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary in Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown of information in the financial statements.
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Opinion our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and affairs of the Company and the Group at 31st December, 2002 the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. then ended: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not the financial statements have been properly prepared in consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the those parts of the directors remuneration report required by information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and the  LLP corporate governance statement.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the 10th March, 2003 Groups compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
