Independent Auditors 1 Report To the Members of JPMorgan Fleming American Companys compliance with the seven provisions of Investment Trust plc the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and We have audited the financial statements which we report if it does not.
We are not required to comprise the Statement of Total Return, the Balance consider whether the Boards statements on internal Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
control cover all risks and controls, or to form an We have also audited the disclosures required by Part opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained governance procedures or its risk and control in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable procedures.
Basis of Audit Opinion Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of financial statements in accordance with applicable evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set the financial statements and the auditable part of the out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
It also includes an Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements assessment of the significant estimates and and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Report in accordance with relevant legal and of the financial statements, and of whether the regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This circumstances, consistently applied and adequately report, including the opinion, has been prepared for disclosed.
and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act all the information and explanations which we 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving considered necessary in order to provide us with this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that other purpose or to any other person to whom this the financial statements and the auditable part of the report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Directors Remuneration Report are free from material where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also financial statements give a true and fair view and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of whether the financial statements and the auditable information in the financial statements.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of statements, if the Company has not kept proper the state of affairs of the Company at 31st accounting records, if we have not received all the December 2002 and of the total return and cash information and explanations we require for our audit, flows of the Company for the year then ended: or if information specified by law regarding Directors the financial statements have been properly remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We read the other information contained in the annual 1985: and report and consider the implications for our report if those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report we become aware of any apparent misstatements or required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Act 1985 have been properly prepared in The other information comprises only the Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the  Investment Managers Report and the corporate Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors governance statement.
We review whether the London, 10th March 2003 corporate governance statement reflects the 1 The financial statements are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMFAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMFAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the financial statements may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the financial statements following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the financial statements need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
