STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare state whether applicable accounting standards position of the Company and to enable them financial statements for each financial year have been followed, subject to any material to ensure that the financial statements comply which give a true and fair view of the state of departures disclosed and explained in the with the Companies Act 1985.
They have affairs of the Company and the Group and of financial statements: and general responsibility for taking such steps as the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing are reasonably open to them to safeguard the those financial statements, the directors are prepare the financial statements on the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect required to: going concern basis unless it is inappropriate fraud and other irregularities.
to presume that the Group will continue select suitable accounting policies and then in business.
apply them consistently: The directors are responsible for keeping make judgements and estimates that are proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable and prudent: reasonable accuracy at any time the financial INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC We have audited the financial statements Report is not consistent with the financial estimates and judgements made by the directors on pages 4 to 27.
We have also audited the statements, if the Company has not kept proper in the preparation of the financial statements information in the Directors Remuneration Report accounting records, if we have not received and of whether the accounting policies are that is described as having been audited.
all the information and explanations we require appropriate to the Groups circumstances, for our audit or if information specified by consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys law or the Listing Rules regarding directors members, as a body, in accordance with Section remuneration and transactions with the Group We planned and performed our audit so as 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit is not disclosed.
to obtain all the information and explanations work has been undertaken so that we might which we considered necessary in order to provide state to the Companys members those matters We review whether the statement on pages us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable we are required to state to them in an auditors 1 to 3 reflects the Companys compliance with assurance that the financial statements and the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the seven provisions of the Combined Code part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be extent permitted by law, we do not accept or specified for our review by the Listing Rules, audited are free from material misstatement, assume responsibility to anyone other than and we report if it does not.
We are not required whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or the Company and the Companys members to consider whether the Boards statements error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated as a body, for our audit work, for this report, on internal control cover all risks and controls, the overall adequacy of the presentation of or for the opinions we have formed.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the information in the financial statements and Groups corporate governance procedures or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities of directors its risk and control procedures.
and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing We read the other information contained Opinion the financial statements and the Directors in the financial statements, including the In our opinion: Remuneration Report.
As described above, corporate governance statement and the this includes responsibility for preparing unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements give a true and fair the financial statements in accordance with Report, and consider whether it is consistent with view of the state of affairs of the Company applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the audited financial statements.
We consider and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent the implications for our report if we become of the profit of the Group for the year then auditors, are established in the United Kingdom aware of any apparent misstatements or material ended: and by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the financial statements and the part of the and by our professions ethical guidance.
Basis of audit opinion Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We conducted our audit in accordance with have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements give a true and fair view Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, and whether the financial statements and the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the KPMG Audit Plc part of the Directors Remuneration Report to amounts and disclosures in the financial Chartered Accountants be audited have been properly prepared in statements and the part of the Directors Registered Auditor accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also London also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors includes an assessment of the significant 24 February 2003 28 Bunzl plc
