Related Party Transactions There were no material transactions between directors or key managers and the Legal & General group of companies.
All transactions between the Group, its directors and key managers are on commercial terms at rates which are no more favourable than those available to staff in general.
Employee Information 2002 2001 Average numbers of staff employed by the Group during the year were: UK 8,267 7,836 Europe 288 288 USA 318 329 Worldwide employees 8,873 8,453 Aggregate gross remuneration m m Wages and salaries 239 217 Social security costs 26 23 Other pension costs 18 15 283 255 59 Included in the UK gures are 773 2001: 701 part time employees with an aggregate gross remuneration of 11m 2001: 9m.
Officers Loans At 31 December 2002 there were no loans outstanding to ofcers of the Company 2001: 1,028,862 to 8 ofcers.
Contingent Liabilities, Litigation, Guarantees and Indemnities Provision for the liabilities arising under contracts with policyholders is based on certain assumptions.
The variance of actual experience from that assumed may result in such liabilities differing from the provisions made for them.
Liabilities may also arise in respect of claims relating to the interpretation of such contracts, or the circumstances in which policyholders have entered into them together in this paragraph liabilities.
The extent of such liabilities is inuenced by the actions and requirements of the FSA, by ombudsman rulings, by industry compensation schemes and by court judgements.
In particular an increased provision has been made in 2002 for liabilities that may arise in respect of an increased number of claims from endowment policyholders further to the recent prole given to the sale of the product by the FSA and other bodies.
It is not possible to predict, with certainty, the extent and the timing of the financial impact to which these liabilities may give rise.
The relevant members of the Group nevertheless consider that each makes prudent provision for such liabilities, as and when circumstances calling for such provision, become clear, and that each has adequate capital and reserves to meet all reasonably foreseeable eventualities.
Legal & General Assurance Society Limited the Society is involved in arbitration proceedings with Munich Reinsurance Company the reinsurer, in which the reinsurer is seeking to avoid or to rectify its reinsurance of a substantial tranche of the Societys individual term assurance business on the basis of mistaken pricing by the reinsurer.
If the reinsurer were successful in its claim, the reported profit for the Group would be adversely affected on an AP basis, and there would be an adverse impact on the reported change in the SRC and profit before tax on an MSS basis.
How significant the financial impact would be would depend on the terms on which any rectification were to be made or, if the reinsurance were declared void, the terms of the alternative arrangements which the Society would then make.
Having taken advice from Leading Counsel, the directors are confident that the reinsurers claim will fail and that it is unlikely that a material loss will arise.
Further details are not given at this time to avoid any prejudice to the legal proceedings.
In 1975 the Society was required by the Institute of London Underwriters ILU to execute the ILU form of guarantee in respect of policies issued through the ILUs Policy Signing Ofce on behalf of NRG Victory Reinsurance Company Ltd Victory, a company which was then a subsidiary of the Society.
In 1990, Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep Holding nv, as part of the arrangements under which it acquired Victory, provided an indemnity to the Society against any liability the Society may have as a result of the ILUs requirement, and the ILU agreed that its requirement of the Society would not apply to policies written or renewed after the acquisition.
Whether the Society has any liability as a result of the ILUs requirement and, if so, the amount of its potential liability, is uncertain.
The Society has made no payment or provision in respect of this matter.
Group companies have given indemnities and guarantees including interest rate guarantees, as a normal part of their operating activities or in relation to capital market transactions.
