GEORGINA USHER left An outstanding international fencer, current British Champion and double medal winner at the 2002 Commonwealth Fencing Championships, Georgina first began to receive support under Legal & Generals Young Excellence Scheme in 1997.
In 2001, she joined Legal & General and is now employed in our Business Informations Systems department.
2002 RoSPA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AWARDS right Stuart Billing, Head of UK Facilities, accepts the 2002 Occupational Health and Safety Award for the Commercial and Business Services Sector, from Lord Faulkner of Worcester, President of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
programme, we have this year launched an a wide range of initiatives under the guidance 20 Corporate Social Responsibility intranet guide to our Health and Safety of its Group Environment Committee.
In recognition of our achievements Environmental Management Systems across in this area, we were awarded the Royal the business were further strengthened in Society for the Prevention of Accidents 2002 2002.
New ISO 14001 certication was Occupational Health and Safety Award, for the achieved at two investment properties, one Commercial and Business Services Sector.
operational property and for the companys Staff Ownership of Legal & General Shares central purchasing function.
Training is a key There are three elements to the Employee element in the success of such systems.
Share Plan: free, partnership and matching During 2002, 16% of UK employees received shares.
During 2002, participating employees general environmental awareness training.
received up to 400 free shares.
All UK Excellent progress has been made against the employees are invited to join the Plan and, 2002 environmental targets and new targets at the year end, nearly 90% had registered to have been set for 2003.
Taken together, these receive free shares.
In addition, over 60% of targets cover the main environmental impacts UK employees save a chosen amount each of the business.
month to purchase partnership shares, which are matched up to the value of 20 per month.
Verication of environmental performance is achieved through external audit of our ISO 14001 Our Communities certicates and internal audit of other processes.
Legal & General has a long-running Community Involvement programme, to which we contribute We were delighted that our environmental 0.5% of the previous years UK MSS pre-tax commitment was again recognised in the seventh operating profit.
In 2002, this amounted to Business in the Environment Index of Corporate 2.0m 2001: 1.9m.
We were ranked first in the Life Assurance sector, fourth in Our programme operates on a number of the Financial Services sector and 13th of the levels.
Our Major Community Partnerships FTSE 100 companies.
Legal & General is provide support to national charities, whose a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
objectives are linked to one of the Groups core businesses.
We also support both the Socially Responsible Investment communities surrounding our major ofces Legal & General recognises that it is able to and our employees in their fund-raising inuence the companies in which it invests activities.
We match the first 500 p. a. each towards socially responsible behaviour.
employee raises for charity and also we match, We offer an Ethical Investment Fund, which up to 180 p. a. sums donated by employees screens its investments according to dened through the Give As You Earn scheme.
We have also recently launched addition, we operate a Young Excellence Scheme, an Ethical UK Index Fund which tracks the which seeks to assist young people who have FTSE4Good Index.
We engage with the shown exceptional talent in a particular eld, companies in which we invest to determine whether sporting or creative, but who lack the their involvement in social and environmental financial support to full their potential.
We also vote on UK company are currently ten young people on the Scheme.
Further details of the policies Our Environment of our equity, property and venture capital Legal & General is committed to improving its investment businesses can be found in our environmental performance and has implemented online CSR report.
