39 Independent auditors report To the members of London Stock Exchange plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which We conducted our audit in accordance with comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, auditing standards issued by the Auditing the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, statement and the related notes.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Respective responsibilities of directors statements.
It also includes an assessment and auditors of the significant estimates and judgements The directors responsibilities for preparing the made by the directors in the preparation of annual report and the financial statements in the financial statements, and of whether the accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting policies are appropriate to the law and accounting standards are set out in Companys circumstances, consistently the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial We planned and performed our audit so as statements in accordance with relevant legal to obtain all the information and explanations and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom which we considered necessary in order to Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing provide us with sufficient evidence to give Practices Board and the Listing Rules of reasonable assurance that the financial the Financial Services Authority.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity We report to you our opinion as to whether the or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated financial statements give a true and fair view and the overall adequacy of the presentation of are properly prepared in accordance with the information in the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Opinion with the financial statements, if the Company has In our opinion the financial statements give a not kept proper accounting records, if we have not true and fair view of the state of affairs of the received all the information and explanations we Company and the Group at 31 March 2002 and require for our audit, or if information specified of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors year then ended and have been properly prepared remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the  annual report and consider the implications for Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors our report if we become aware of any apparent London misstatements or material inconsistencies with 23 May 2002 the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the operating and financial review.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
