Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC formerly New Cairn Energy PLC We have audited the Companys financial statements for Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the period ended 31 December 2002 which comprise been properly prepared in accordance with the the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 5.
We also report to you if, in our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also the financial statements, if the Company has not kept audited the information in the Directors Remuneration proper accounting records, if we have not received all Report that is described as having been audited.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing This report is made solely to the companys members, Rules regarding directors remuneration and as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys We review whether the Corporate Governance members those matters we are required to state to Statement reflects the Companys compliance with them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it or assume responsibility to anyone other than the does not.
We are not required to consider whether Company and the Companys members as a body, the Boards statements on internal control cover all for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions risks and controls, or form an opinion on the we have formed.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We read other information contained in the Annual The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the audited financial statements.
This other information financial statements in accordance with applicable comprises Highlights, Scheme of Arrangement, United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set Strategic Positioning, Chairmans Statement, out in the statement of directors responsibilities in the Operational Review, Financial Review, Board of Corporate Governance Statement on page 18.
Directors, Environmental & Social Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report, unaudited Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements parts of the Directors Remuneration Report, and the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report to Reserves, Principal Licence Interests, Extract Financial be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Information, Five Year Summary, Company regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Information, Notice of AGM, Glossary and Form of Standards and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Proxy.
We consider the implications for our report if Listing Authority.
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other financial statements give a true and fair view and information.
whether the financial statements and the parts of the CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 34 Basis of Audit Opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United In our opinion: Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a the financial statements give a true and fair view of test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 disclosures in the financial statements and the parts of December 2002: and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the financial statements and the parts of the It also includes an assessment of the significant Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have estimates and judgements made by the directors in the been properly prepared in accordance with the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Companies Act 1985. the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor, Edinburgh We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all 24 March 2003 the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 35
