39 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Independent Auditors Report To the members of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give We have audited the consolidated financial statements of reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc for the year ended material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 30 September 2002 which comprise the balance sheets as at irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated 30 September 2002 and 30 September 2001 and the consolidated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the profit and loss accounts, the consolidated cash flow statements and financial statements.
the consolidated statements of total recognised gains and losses for each of the three years ended 30 September 2002 and the related UK opinion notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared under In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and the accounting policies set out therein.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 30 September 2002 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companies Act 1985.
Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom US opinion law and accounting standards.
Our responsibility is to audit the In our opinion the consolidated financial statements present fairly, financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the legal and regulatory requirements, auditing standards, and the Group at 30 September 2002 and 30 September 2001 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for each We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of the three years in the period ended 30 September 2002 in statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in United Kingdom.
our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, vary in significant respects from accounting principles generally if we have not received all the information and explanations we accepted in the United States of America.
The application of the require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing latter would have affected the determination of net income for Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the the each of the three years ended 30 September 2002 and the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
determination of shareholders equity at 30 September 2002, and We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 2001, to the extent summarised in note 27 to the consolidated the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the financial statements.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Deloitte & Touche and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Cambridge risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 15 November 2002 control procedures.
Notes We read the Directors report and the other information contained An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These section and consider the implications for our report if we become matters are the responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
