1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 20 independent auditors report to the members of the paragon group of companies plc We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Group Basis of audit opinion of Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September 2002 which We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 31 relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial together with the reconciliation of movement in consolidated statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant shareholders funds.
These financial statements have been estimates and judgements made by the directors in the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately As described in the statement of directors responsibility, the disclosed.
Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibility information and explanations which we considered necessary in is to audit the financial statements in accordance with order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements, assurance that the financial statements are free from material auditing standards, and the Listing Rules of the Financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Opinion you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at accounting records, if we have not received all the information 30 September 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year and explanations we require for our audit, or if information then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Deloitte & Touche whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Birmingham the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 16 December 2002 control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our 20 report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the paragon group of companies plc
