Independent auditors report To the members of Provident Financial plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the financial review, the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and the corporate governance report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 5 March 2003 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2002|Provident Financial Provident Annual Review Financial and & Summary us its business Financial Statement 2002 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL Pam thats my agent is someone I really trust.
I know shes there if I need an extra loan, but shell also make sure I dont overstretch myself and get behind with repayments.
She keeps me on the straight and narrow!
Gaynor Holdsworth, Wakefield Front cover A Provident Financial employee from Hungary.
Ours is a business built on personal relationships.
Everything we do is directed at strengthening relationships with our customers and making Provident better at meeting their needs.
you Our home credit business, for instance, works because agents build good relationships with customers: were one of the few large lenders that knows all its borrowers personally.
The core of the home credit service, the weekly visit from the agent, has not changed in over 120 years.
me It survives and succeeds because it reflects the way people like to do business.
Not least, our borrowers have the reassurance that Provident will lend responsibly.
In home credit, agents know how much their customers can afford and it is in their interest to ensure they us do not overlend.
Customers also welcome the flexible terms and the fact that there are never any penalty charges, even if payments are late.
All this results in highly satisfied customers who continue to return to us and also recommend Provident to others.
Because we know our customers so well, were now starting to explore other ways of meeting their needs.
And we will aim to continue this personal touch as we expand and develop new businesses.
Our newer products may not all rely on the agents visit, but they do help to broaden the service and give our customers what they want.
At Provident, theres a clear alignment of interests between customers, agents, employees, investors and society at large.
The better we get on with our customers and provide the products and service they want, the more we prosper as a business.
This allows us to offer better careers and prospects to our employees, to give greater returns to our shareholders and to meet our social responsibilities more effectively.
Contents Our news 2 Chairmans statement 4 You, me, us were all involved in Providents Chief Executives review 8 success.
Our directors 22 Summary directors report 24 Summary corporate governance report 24 Summary directors remuneration report 25 Summary financial statement 28 Report of the auditors 31 Information for shareholders 32 Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 1 Our news and highlights of the year 2002 our news 12.0% 7.4% Home credit customers Pre-exceptional profit before up 12.0% to 2.6 million tax up 7.4% to 182.1 million 5.3% 5.3% Pre-exceptional earnings per Full year dividend up 5.3% share up 5.3% to 53.05 pence to 30.90 pence per share 2 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial In 2002 we have made good progress with our strategy: weve rolled out our pilot operations in Hungary and Slovakia, researched the launch of a pilot operation in Mexico, acquired a car finance business, and started developing a credit card.
new Pilot home credit operation in Mexico planned for autumn 2003.
USA Mexico new new Market test of credit card products Yes Car Credit acquired, positioning begins spring 2003.
Provident as a leading provider of car finance in the UK.
24.07.02 National roll-out programme began in Hungary and Slovakia.
Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 3 our Our business has made excellent progress and delivered good results during 2002.
We are confident about the groups prospects for 2003.
I am pleased to announce our results for 2002.
Strong growth continued Chairmans statement during the year with home credit customer numbers up by 12% to 2.6 million and home credit customer receivables up by 10% to 800 million.
John van Kuffeler Profit before tax, prior to the exceptional loss on the sale of Colonnade Insurance Brokers, increased by 7.4% to 182.1 million 2001 169.6 million.
Pre-exceptional earnings per share increased by 5.3% from 50.39p to 53.05p.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 18.44p 2001 17.60p, giving a total dividend for the year of 30.90p per ordinary share 2001 29.35p, an increase of 5.3% for the year.
Operations UK consumer credit division Home credit UK home credit is a long established, successful and cash generative business, serving over 1.6 million customers.
Customers choose home credit from a range of credit products available to them because of the strong appeal of the offer.
Our personal service and the close relationship between agent and customer are highly valued and well suited to the careful and responsible provision of credit.
The transparency, flexibility and convenience of our home credit product is also well liked and tailored to our customers needs.
These factors combine to give an extraordinarily high customer satisfaction rating of 90%.
The business continues to make progress in a mature market.
After a prolonged period of economic growth during the last decade some of our customers are better off and so are borrowing less frequently.
As a result, we are working harder each year to recruit more customers in order to achieve net growth.
It was pleasing, therefore, that during 2002 customer numbers increased by 1.4% to 1.633 million.
Credit issued in 2002 increased by 0.7% to 921 million 2001 915 million.
Turnover increased by 3.5% to 482 million.
We seek to balance growth, overhead expenses and bad debt costs in order to achieve the best profit outcome.
Credit quality in the Czech in profit before tax of 1.4% to 152.5 million 2001 150.4 million.
Republic has also developed as we expected and, for 2002, bad debt as a percentage of credit issued was 11.0% 2001 11.2%.
Profit before tax Yes Car Credit has increased by 2.6 million 109% to 5.1 million 2001 2.5 million.
Yes Car Credit was acquired on 18 December 2002.
Since it was founded in 1997, Yes Car Credit has grown rapidly to become one of The performance of our new businesses in Hungary and Slovakia has the UKs leading car finance companies serving the sub-prime market.
been very encouraging and we have benefited from the lessons learned in It has a unique, credit-led, integrated business model under which it establishing operations in Poland and the Czech Republic.
We announced offers its customers a package of a car, financing and related insurance in July 2002 that, following good results from the pilot operations, we had products.
In the year ended 31 December 2002, Yes Car Credits turnover decided to go ahead with a controlled roll-out to achieve national branch increased by 35% to 207 million 2001 153 million and it arranged coverage in both countries.
We currently have 6 branches and 55,000 finance for over 30,000 cars 2001 24,000.
Net customer receivables customers in Hungary and 5 branches and 27,000 customers in Slovakia.
increased by 59% to 163 million 2001 103 million.
The pro forma profit Credit quality in both countries remains good.
The start-up loss from the before tax for the year, assuming ownership by Provident Financial and two countries in 2002 was 5.1 million 2001 3.6 million.
the consequent benefit of lower funding costs throughout the year, was 6.6 million 2001 3.0 million.
Post-acquisition profit before tax included Motor insurance division in the groups 2002 results amounted to 22,000.
After a strong performance in the first half of 2002, the opening to the second half of the year was heralded by the long anticipated downturn in International division the insurance cycle.
Premium rates in the market fell by about 4% in the The international division has once again grown substantially during the second half whilst claims costs have increased at a rate of 4% per annum.
year, achieving excellent profit growth in Poland and the Czech Republic As a result, margins in the market have been eroded.
We have continued and successfully establishing operations in Hungary and Slovakia.
with our policy of pricing for an adequate return and so have raised our Customer numbers for the division increased by 36% to 960,000, credit premium rates.
This has caused policyholder numbers to fall by 11% in the issued by 34% to 287 million and turnover by 43% to 142 million.
Profit second half of 2002 and gross written premiums for the second half of the before tax has increased substantially to 10.6 million 2001 0.8 million.
year were 27% lower than in the corresponding period of 2001.
However, as a result of the good start to the year and the flow through into profit in Our business in Poland has performed very well and we are making the second half of the year of premium that was written in the first half, the excellent progress towards our medium term targets.
Customer numbers insurance division has produced another good result.
Profit before tax for increased by 31% to 660,000, credit issued by 26% to 198 million and 2002 increased by 2% to 35.8 million 2001 35.1 million.
Credit quality developed as expected with bad debt as a percentage of credit issued at 9.1% for 2002 2001 Strategy 7.5%.
Profit before tax increased by 10 million 147% to 16.7 million Our strategy has two key strands: international expansion and a 2001 6.7 million.
broadening of our product range.
Our aim is to be a leading international provider of simple financial services to people on moderate incomes.
Our Czech operation has also produced excellent results.
Customer numbers increased by 16% to 218,000, credit issued by 31% to Chairmans statement | Annual Review 2002 5 International division customer growth 000 International division profit loss before tax m 960 708 10.6 466 138 0.8 15 1998 1999 2000 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2001 2002 4.0 5.9 7.7 In 1997 we began a programme of international expansion of our home We have established new businesses credit service.
This has been very successful and we have established new businesses in four central European countries that together now in four European countries that serve 960,000 customers.
These businesses have excellent prospects: they are fast growing and increasingly profitable.
together now serve over 960,000 customers.
These businesses have During 2002 we researched a number of overseas markets in order to choose the next country in which to launch home credit.
We are now excellent prospects.
completing our final research with a view to opening a pilot operation in Mexico in the third quarter of 2003.
Mexico has a population of over 100 million and represents an attractive potential market for home collected credit.
It has an emerging economy that has prospered in recent years.
It will, of course, bring new challenges and in order to manage these we will progress cautiously.
The acquisition of Yes Car Credit, announced in December 2002, marks significant progress in the broadening of our product range, the second strand of our strategy.
For many customers in our target market, the purchase of a car is one of the largest and most significant credit transactions they will undertake.
This is a sizeable and growing market in which, by this acquisition, we have achieved a leading position.
We believe this business has excellent prospects and will enhance the growth and earnings of the group.
We have also thoroughly investigated the possibility of introducing other credit products.
Research in the UK suggests that credit cards have much appeal as a source of small sum credit amongst some customer segments in our target market.
Some of these customers are excluded from access to the credit cards issued by existing providers.
We see an opportunity to leverage our knowledge of this marketplace and to generate additional growth opportunities in the UK by the inclusion of a credit card in our product range.
We intend to market test credit card products in the UK in the first half of 2003.
We have recruited a team of experienced credit card professionals and are developing the required infrastructure.
We have obtained a deposit taking licence from the FSA.
The cards will be issued by a new subsidiary, Vanquis Bank Limited.
6 Annual Review 2002|Chairmans statement Group pre-exceptional profit before tax m Provident Financial has an impressive record of growth and has made excellent progress and delivered good results during 2002.
This, and the fall in written premium experienced in the second UK consumer credit division half of 2002, is expected to result in lower profits from the motor insurance We expect market conditions for UK home credit to remain similar to division in 2003. those in 2002.
We will continue to strive for customer and issue growth and, as a result, some further increase in bad debt as a percentage of Summary credit issued is expected.
The outlook remains for modest growth in 2003.
Provident Financial has an impressive record of growth and has made excellent progress and delivered good results during 2002.
We are Whilst Yes Car Credit has expanded rapidly, under its previous ownership confident about the groups prospects for 2003. its growth had been constrained by the limited financial resources available to it.
To date only 75% of cars sold have been financed in-house and the business has only partial geographic coverage of the UK market through its 21 branches.
In 2003, as part of Provident Financial, it is intended to expand the branch network and to increase the proportion of sales which are financed in-house.
As a result, further significant growth in customers, receivables and revenue is expected in 2003.
John van Kuffeler The market test of credit card products is expected to incur start-up Chairman losses of about 7 million in 2003.
We have thoroughly researched this 5 March 2003 opportunity and believe it has good prospects of success and offers attractive returns on investment.
International division We continue to see excellent prospects for growth from our international division.
The established businesses in Poland and the Czech Republic are expected to grow their profits rapidly.
We will continue to invest in the expansion of the division, increasing our branch coverage in Hungary and Slovakia and, subject to the satisfactory conclusion of final research, launching a pilot operation in Mexico in the third quarter of 2003.
Startup losses for these three countries in 2003 are expected to be about 6 million 2002 5.1 million.
Overall, we expect substantial growth in the contribution from the international division in 2003.
Motor insurance division We believe that the recent more competitive conditions in the motor insurance market will continue.
We will price to achieve an adequate return and so expect policyholder numbers and written premium to Chairmans statement | Annual Review 2002 7 we We have a very successful business model and intend to grow by expanding internationally and broadening our product range.
Three years ago, we said that our aim was to be a leading international Chief Executives review provider of simple financial products to families earning moderate incomes.
There were two strands to the strategy to develop internationally and to Robin Ashton broaden our product range.
Our strategy moves on Providents international expansion has been a huge success.
Since our first tentative steps into overseas markets in 1997, our international home credit business has grown rapidly and now serves 960,000 customers in four central European countries.
In six short years the operations in Poland and the Czech Republic have repaid their start-up costs and begun to generate good profits.
Having proved that home credit can work in other international markets, weve now decided to test the concept in a fifth new country.
The choice of Mexico is a geographical move away from our other international operations, but we believe it can be just as successful for Provident as central Europe has been.
For many years, we have focused on the provision of home credit to people on moderate incomes.
As such, weve gained deep knowledge of our market, both at home and abroad.
Building on this knowledge, we believe we can expand profitably the credit services we offer.
Hence the second part of our strategy, which is broadening the product range.
We have clear criteria for any new product we decide to introduce.
It must capitalise on our knowledge of the market, produce a good return on investment and add to shareholder value.
In line with this strategy, we were delighted to acquire Yes Car Credit, whose target market is similar to our own.
And still at the planning stage is a second new product a credit card designed to appeal to the kind of customers we already serve through our home credit operation.
8 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review Poland profit loss before tax m Czech Republic profit loss before tax m 16.7 5.1 6.7 2.5 0.1 1997 1998 1999 2000 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2001 2002 0.6 0.2 1.5 2.6 2.8 1.1 2.7 Another good year for our businesses Yet again, the international The years results were very much in line with our expectations.
business produced an outstanding The UK home credit market is mature and growth is likely to be modest.
In these conditions, our UK home credit operation has done well to performance with further rapid maintain its position and to notch up another small increase in its profits.
It also continues to generate substantial amounts of cash for investment increases in customer numbers in other parts of the group.
Yet again, the international business produced an outstanding performance with further rapid increases in customer numbers and profits.
The operations in Poland and the Czech Republic are now well established, increasingly profitable and developing as planned.
The newer countries Hungary and Slovakia are more than meeting our expectations as we extend our geographic coverage.
Provident Insurance produced another record profit.
That said, the second half of the year was tougher than the first, as the insurance cycle passed its peak and premium rates in the market began to fall.
Our strategy in these circumstances is to keep pricing for profit and allow our volumes to decline.
Next year will undoubtedly be more difficult.
Experience shows, however, that pricing for profit and refusing to join the price-cutting scramble keeps the business profitable throughout the cycle.
Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 9 I hate being treated like a number or phoning UK consumer credit up and getting a computerised voice that tells With the new products now being introduced, me Im held in a queue.
I like to have a real our UK business is broader than the original person on the doorstep every week to help home credit operation.
So this year weve you me organise my finances.
established a new division, UK consumer credit, Barbara Phillips, Cwmbran headed by executive director Chris Johnstone.
This incorporates UK home credit along with Yes Car Credit and the soon to be piloted credit card operation.
Ive always used home UK home credit Our UK home credit operation remains a solid, credit and now my reliable and successful business, serving 1.6 million customers.
To give just one indication daughter does too.
of its size, agents visit nearly one in 20 UK homes every week.
10 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review During the year we saw a rise in bad debt.
The agent comes and There are good reasons for this.
After a period sorts things out in my own home.
She comes of economic growth, many of our customers as regular as clockwork, at a time that suits me, are better off and are therefore borrowing less to get the repayments.
Which means I pay back frequently.
To keep the business growing, we the loan in small, manageable amounts.
must therefore work harder to attract more Ceri Phillips, Cwmbran borrowers.
New customers, with whom agents have not yet settled into a steady relationship, are inherently more risky.
Hence the rise in bad debt.
We seek to strike a balance in order to achieve the best profit outcome.
This years rise in profit shows the strategy is working.
Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 11 Credit thats simple, flexible and affordable convenient for the borrower, the weekly visit At the core of our home credit business is a very from the agent provides a discipline that helps simple concept.
Nevertheless, were often asked customers to stay in control of their credit.
to explain what we do and sometimes to justify my our charges.
We find, however, that once people A distinctive feature of the Provident home credit understand how our business really works, they service is that customers pay no extra charges, appreciate the service and value we offer.
even if payments are late.
The total to be repaid is fixed at the start of the loan and never goes Provident provides small, unsecured, cash loans.
The deal is totally transparent with no nasty My choice is Provident.
Typically ranging from 100 to 500, this size of surprises ever.
For customers on a tight budget, So say 1.6 million UK loan can be difficult to obtain from other providers thats a great reassurance.
most of whom will only lend larger amounts.
We pride ourselves on being a responsible lender, The service clearly meets a need.
Some of with payments carefully designed to be affordable our customers have run into trouble with other and collected by agents every week from lenders and welcome the structure and discipline customers homes.
As well as being extremely of a Provident loan.
Most have access to other 62% of our UK home credit customers have bank current accounts and 32% have an overdraft facility.
30% 57% of our UK home credit customers of our UK home credit customers have a credit card.
use agency mail order catalogues.
12 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review forms of credit and choose Provident because The upshot is a strong personal loyalty to no surprises.
If you then add an agent wholl do they like the service.
Satisfaction rates are the individual agent an important factor in their utmost to help the customer, its clear that consistently high and many of our borrowers encouraging customers to borrow sensibly Provident provides excellent value for money.
are second and third generation customers.
and keep up their payments.
Part of our strength is the relationship between So the service is not just cash, its cash plus customer and agent.
We must be one of the convenience plus flexibility plus fairness plus few large lenders that knows all its borrowers transparency plus friendly, personal service.
In a world of impersonal financial If commentators sometimes query our charges, services, customers welcome the weekly, faceits worth noting that the huge majority of to-face contact with their agent.
Indeed, many customers appreciate the Provident offer.
While regard their agent as a family friend.
They also many other credit providers may not include all value the fact that agents can help keep their of the charges paid by customers in the APR borrowing within sensible limits.
Agents are paid penalty charges, default fees and insurance by how much they collect, not how much they premiums our APR includes everything the lend, so have every incentive to lend prudently.
As I said earlier 18% of our UK home credit customers have a mortgage.
44% 90% of our UK home credit customers spend of our UK home credit customers are their loans on consumer electronics: satisfied with the Provident service.
81% of our UK home credit customers would recommend Provident to family or friends.
Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 13 Yes Car Credit Acquired in December 2002, Yes Car Credit is a leading provider of car finance for people on moderate incomes.
Uniquely in its sector, our it sells good quality, three to five-year old cars with finance and related insurances in one integrated package.
The purchase of this Our plan is to capitalise business represents an important broadening of our product range in the UK.
on our knowledge of Serving similar customers to Providents home our market and expand credit business, Yes Car Credit fits our ethos of quality service and affordable credit.
For many the credit services we of our customers, taking out a loan to buy a car is one of the largest credit transactions they will can offer.
ever make and it makes sense that Provident should help them with it.
Furthermore, the car finance market is large and growing and this acquisition provides an opportunity for Provident to take a leading position.
Although Yes Car Credit has developed rapidly in recent years, its growth has been limited by a lack of financial resources.
Its 21 branches provide only partial coverage of the UK and only 75% of the cars it sells are financed from its own resources.
With Providents backing, Yes Car Credit will be able to expand its network and so become more accessible to more customers.
It will also be able to finance more of its sales inhouse and therefore more profitably.
We expect its growth to continue and believe it can make a valuable contribution to the group.
A new credit card Were also looking at other credit products for our target market.
Research in the UK suggests that many people would value a credit card as a source of small sum credit.
Its seen as an attractive alternative to cash and opens up new possibilities such as shopping on-line.
That said, many in our target market have either been turned down by credit card providers or currently do not wish to have a credit card because it might cause them to lose control of their spending.
We believe we can fill a gap in the market by developing a differentiated credit card specifically designed to meet the requirements of people on moderate incomes.
We have hired a team of credit card professionals, some of whom are pictured on the right, to develop the product and infrastructure and we intend to begin a market trial in the spring.
Costing around 7 million in 2003, the trial will test the attractiveness of the offer.
This opportunity has been carefully researched and planned and offers excellent prospects for creating additional growth and shareholder value.
14 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review UK consumer credit prospects The UK home credit business continues to operate in a competitive market.
In the coming year well keep working hard to increase our customer numbers and credit issued.
Overall, we expect the business to grow modestly.
Yes Car Credit will make an immediate contribution to profits and offers excellent prospects for growth over the longer term.
In due course, we may be able to create some cross-selling opportunities between Yes Car Credit and our home credit business although were not relying on these.
In the credit card market, we believe we have a potential competitive advantage from knowing our customers and offering a product thats tailored to their needs.
If the card succeeds in the UK, we see opportunities for extending it into our central European markets where credit cards are relatively undeveloped.
Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 15 16 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review International numbers passed the 200,000 milestone to reach When we started our international business in 218,000 an increase of 16% over the year.
central Europe in 1997, not even the optimists expected it to produce such excellent results so Hungary me quickly.
The past year has continued the trend Significant progress was made in Hungary with substantial profits in Poland and the Czech during the year.
We now have six branches Republic and excellent early performances from and 900 agents, giving us the potential to reach Me?
I like the security the newer businesses in Hungary and Slovakia.
about half the country's population.
Over the year, employee numbers have increased from 69 of knowing exactly Profits from the division have leapt from 0.8 to 194 and customer numbers from 10,000 to million in 2001 to 10.6 million in 2002.
As expected, start-up losses in the year what I owe.
numbers increased by 36% to 960,000 during the amounted to 3.1 million.
year, so were well on course to meet our target of a million international customers by 2004.
At Slovakia 14,400, the number of agents in the international Our business in Slovakia has also made good division already exceeds that in the UK.
Our Slovak operation now has five branches, 500 agents and 119 staff up from Of our four central European businesses, the 59 the previous year.
Customer numbers Czech Republic is the most advanced with its increased over the year from 5,000 to 27,000. infrastructure more or less complete.
Poland, Start-up losses were 2.0 million again in a bigger country, is still adding branches and line with expectations.
In Hungary and Slovakia, after successful pilot phases, we made the Mexico decision in July 2002 to roll out both these During 2002 we researched a number of overseas businesses across their countries.
Today, the markets to decide where next to launch home Hungarian and Slovak businesses are making credit.
The most attractive option turned out to rapid progress and are turning into sizeable be Mexico.
Less than two years on from their launch in May 2001, they already serve over Mexico has a population of 103 million and 80,000 customers.
we believe a large potential home credit market.
Like our central European markets, its an With their excellent advertising and promotion, emerging economy and one that has grown the central European businesses especially more stable and prosperous in recent years.
Poland and the Czech Republic have Were now completing our final research with developed powerful national brands.
Theyre a view to opening a pilot operation towards known and respected not just by customers the end of 2003. but by politicians, business leaders, the media, would-be staff and existing employees who are International prospects proud to work for such a successful organisation.
In 2003 we expect further strong growth in customer numbers, credit issued and profit in A key driver of this success is the high calibre our central European market.
As we add more of staff and management in all four businesses.
customers to the existing infrastructure in Poland The energy and enthusiasm of our international and the Czech Republic, our revenues are employees must be seen to be believed.
Many expected to increase in relation to costs, and were originally attracted by the opportunity to margins will rise accordingly.
Meanwhile the rollhelp get a fledgling operation off the ground.
out will continue in Hungary and Slovakia with They have shown amazing commitment and both businesses expected to break into profit their energy and vision are helping to guide within three years.
And, subject to our final our growth.
Our international businesses are research, well be getting started in Mexico.
increasingly managed by local people, many of whom have risen far and fast in a short Despite our rapid expansion, our approach to space of time.
all our international markets remains steady and cautious.
Were seeking to create long-term, Poland sustainable businesses and are determined to Poland delivered excellent results during 2002, build them on solid foundations.
With each new producing profits up by 147% from 6.7 million step, were learning more and are taking care to to 16.7 million.
The number of agents passed apply these lessons as we move on.
In the future, the 10,000 mark in the course of the year up as in the past, our international development will from 8,400 to 10,200 while customer numbers be controlled.
Provident Polska continues to be a major force in the Polish economy, vying with Tesco to be the biggest British-owned provider of employment.
Czech Republic The Czech Republic also delivered an impressive When it suits me, I know I can use store credit result.
But for a small cash loan, I reckon Provident is the best especially because of the Profits were more than double the previous years service and convenience that comes with it.
The number of Jindrich Svejnoha, Czech Republic agents grew from 2,550 to 2,800 and customer Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 17 Motor insurance Corporate Responsibility The tenth largest motor underwriter in the As a large business, we touch the lives of UK, Provident Insurance specialises in nonmillions of people not just our customers and comprehensive policies with particular emphasis employees, but agents, suppliers, shareholders, my on women drivers.
Its an efficient, tightly managed politicians, local communities and many others.
business with low operating costs, and the ability to shrink and expand in response to the industry Not surprisingly, the world at large expects cycle.
We said a year ago that the insurance companies to conduct themselves to the highest My dealings with cycle could be heading for a downturn.
At Provident, we take this responsibility the cycle continued rising a little longer than we very seriously.
That means doing all that we Provident have always expected, peaking around mid-year but heading reasonably can to make sure we benefit the downwards since then.
many groups of people we touch through our been quick and straightbusiness.
As the cycle turned and other insurers started forward.
cutting prices to maintain market share, we Corporate Responsibility CR covers everything continued our normal strategy of pricing every from our conduct as an employer, to helping the policy for profit.
As a result, in the second half community, to improving our environmental of 2002 our policyholder numbers fell by 11% to performance.
In recent years weve been working 757,000 and gross written premiums were 27% hard to identify priorities, set targets and put in lower than in the corresponding six months of place the structures and programmes to make 2001.
Nevertheless, the good start to the year sure we meet them systematically.
ensured a strong overall performance with profits rising 2% to a record 35.8 million.
Im pleased to report good progress in 2002.
To ensure that CR is supported and directed Motor insurance prospects from the very top, weve created a new Conditions are likely to remain tough as the cycle management structure under the leadership declines.
But weve been here before and have of executive director, John Harnett.
In addition, a well honed strategy for handling the downturn.
weve set up a group of senior managers from Well focus hard on our areas of specialisation, our business divisions and charged them with When I had an accident, Provident sorted keep our costs low and aim to make a profit making things happen.
everything out over the phone and organised from every policy.
There will, of course, be fewer the garage to collect my vehicle and leave policyholders, so were likely to see a downturn Within the group there has been continued a courtesy car.
in profit in 2003. emphasis on our health and safety programme Jayne Hodgson, Halifax with various initiatives designed to ensure we 18 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review comply with the latest legislation and best main causes Wood Bank School, the Forget Looking ahead into 2003 we intend to look practice.
Me Not Trust and the Community Foundation for more widely at those with a connection to our Calderdale as well as local groups in which its business and to engage in dialogue with more Weve always been active in the community.
Within the business well be In 2002, weve focused our support on the division, Poland has concentrated on awards for focusing on diversity and considering the communities in which we operate and we are students while projects in other countries have needs of particular groups.
working with local partners who really can make ranged from free computers for schools to a difference to peoples lives.
supporting childrens homes and a museum At the same time, well continue to build on our of fine arts.
community work and to make further progress Our number one project this year has been environmentally.
Our objectives for 2003 include the Provident Action for Creative Kids PACK Our environmental work has also forged ahead.
greater energy efficiency, a reduction in business initiative with the Youth Hostels Association and For 2002 we set ourselves a series of targets travel, better use of resources such as water and the Scottish Youth Hostels Association to give in five main areas setting up an environmental paper and increased recycling.
We will work with educational and activity breaks to children from management system, raising awareness, the top 25% of our suppliers to reduce the needy areas.
Continuing our strong links with the managing energy, minimising waste and environmental effects of our business and extend arts, our Talking Pictures project gives children controlling emissions.
Im delighted to say we our environment management system to Hungary from inner city schools the opportunity to study exceeded many of our targets and pushed our and Slovakia.
great paintings and the impetus to produce their score for environmental performance from 51% to own.
One of our strongest business partnerships 79% in the annual benchmarking exercise run by Its a tall order, but this years successes provide is our continued support of the Arts Development Business in the Environment.
Perhaps best of all, strong grounds for confidence.
In seeking to Unit of the West Yorkshire Playhouse which seeks our employees have enthusiastically embraced do better, we of course welcome your own to take art out into the community.
In line with our our environmental programme and their efforts comments and suggestions.
Feedback from last commitment to responsible lending, we also have contributed enormously to its success.
years report was extremely useful and we hope make donations to Money Advice Trust and youll consider yourself part of this process.
In recognition of our CR work in general, we us know how you think were doing and well were pleased to maintain our position in the undertake to keep improving.
Alongside these centrally-supported projects, FTSE4Good index of leading socially responsible our business divisions run their own community companies.
And there was more good news Our people initiatives.
Under its Provident in the Community when our CR report for 2001 won the Yorkshire In the end, all we have at Provident is money, programme, UK home credit supports local Insider award for social reporting.
The CR systems and people.
The money funds what we projects nominated by employees and agents Report details our performance in 2002 and are doing, the systems keep track of the money, and encourages its own people to get involved is available from the company or can be found but the reason were successful is the quality in fundraising.
The motor insurance divisions at www.
community programme in 2002 helped three Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 19 This years progress is down to the skill and an extensive MBA programme that has helped commitment of thousands of individuals be it to produce some outstanding managers in the agents patiently building relationships with their UK and overseas.
We continue to attract the customers: managers working with agents with brightest and best by providing a great place to we superb back-up from our support staff: our motor work and exciting possibilities for advancement.
insurance people who run such a tight, effective Through an expanding programme of underwriting business: or those excellent teams management exchanges, were making sure that We take very seriously in Yes Car Credit and the credit card business the UK business benefits from our experiences whom weve welcomed to the group this year.
in central Europe and vice versa.
As we move our responsibilities to Our success depends on a network of supportive into new countries and new product areas, relationships, all directed at meeting the needs theres even greater opportunity for talented our staff and the wider of our 3.4 million customers.
people to develop their careers and make a real difference to the business.
To this end, we encourage our employees to develop themselves as far as their abilities will In short, we try to be an employer that offers the take them.
Our investment in training includes best to its people and expects the best in return.
20 Annual Review 2002|Chief Executives review This year our staff and management have The support that Provident Financial offers us is responded magnificently.
On behalf of the board, our single most important business relationship.
I thank all our people for their hard work and a Its not just about the financial support, but the job well done.
Theyre clearly delivering what our support, encouragement and enthusiasm that customers want and the business continues in our staff get working together with a company excellent hands.
that puts community and education at its core.
Dan Bates, Executive Director West Yorkshire Playhouse Robin Ashton Chief Executive 5 March 2003 Chief Executives review | Annual Review 2002 21 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 John van Kuffeler 2 Robin Ashton 3 John Harnett 4 Charles Gregson 5 David Swann 6 Chris Johnstone 7 Angela Heylin OBE 8 John Maxwell 7 8 22 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Directors biographies Charles Gregson John van Kuffeler Deputy Chairman and Chairman, age 54 senior non-executive director, age 55 Graduated with a degree in economics and Qualified as a solicitor in 1972 having graduated our qualified as a chartered accountant in 1973. in history and law.
He joined the board of He joined Provident Financial in 1991 as Chief Provident Financial in 1995 as a non-executive Executive and was appointed Executive director and was appointed Deputy Chairman in Our directors and Chairman in 1997.
He is a director of United Business Media Chairman from 1 May 2002.
He was formerly plc and has had responsibility for a number of board committees Group Chief Executive of Brown Shipley Holdings its businesses.
In addition, he is non-executive PLC.
He is Chairman of Huveaux PLC, Eidos plc, Chairman of ICAP plc, who provide specialist The Fleming Technology Trust plc and the intermediary broking services to commercial Finsbury Smaller Quoted Companies Trust PLC.
He is also a non-executive director of the Medical Defence Union Limited.
Angela Heylin OBE Non-executive director, age 59 Robin Ashton Joined the board of Provident Financial in 1997.
Chief Executive, age 45 She is a non-executive director of Mothercare plc Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1982 and Austin Reed Group PLC.
She is Chairman of having graduated in economics and law.
He the House of St Barnabas, a hostel for homeless joined the group in 1983 as Finance Director of women in Soho, and is a trustee of Historic Royal Provident Insurance and subsequently became Palaces.
Deputy Managing Director of H T Greenwood and Managing Director of Provident Investments.
John Maxwell He became Group Treasurer in 1989 and joined Non-executive director, age 58 the board as Finance Director in 1993.
In 1999 Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1967. he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and in He joined the board of Provident Financial in May September 2001 was appointed Chief Executive.
He is a non-executive director of The Big Food Group plc.
He is also a governor of the John Harnett Royal Ballet School.
Finance Director, age 48 Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1981 Board committees having graduated in business studies.
He joined Audit committee the group in 1999 and was appointed to the John Maxwell Chairman board as Finance Director.
He has previously held Charles Gregson positions as Finance Director of Allied Colloids Angela Heylin PLC and Holliday Chemical Holdings plc.
Executive committee Chris Johnstone Robin Ashton Chairman Managing Director, John Harnett UK consumer credit, age 44 Chris Johnstone Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1982.
David Swann He joined the group in 1984 as management accountant to the home credit companies and Nomination committee was appointed Finance Director of Provident John van Kuffeler Chairman Insurance in 1986 and Managing Director in Robin Ashton 1989.
In 1999 he was appointed Managing Charles Gregson Director of the UK home credit division.
He joined Angela Heylin the board of Provident Financial in April 2001 John Maxwell and is now responsible for the UK consumer credit division UK home credit, credit cards Remuneration committee and Yes Car Credit.
Angela Heylin Chairman Charles Gregson David Swann John Maxwell Managing Director, international home credit, age 56 Risk advisory committee Graduated with a degree in economics and Charles Gregson Chairman politics.
He joined the group in 1973 and has Robin Ashton held many positions within the home credit Angela Heylin business including Managing Director of John Maxwell Provident Personal Credit North.
He was responsible for group corporate development from 1994 to 1997 and in that role was involved in the initial investigation of international potential for home credit.
In 1997 he was appointed Managing Director of the international home credit division.
He joined the board of Provident Financial in April 2001.
Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 23 Summary directors report Summary corporate governance report Review of the business The company has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Provident Financial plc the company is a holding company.
A full Code of Best Practice except with regard to the provision on the length review of the groups activities, performance and prospects is contained of directors service contracts.
The company and the remuneration in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 7 and the Chief Executives committee consider that the current length of two years is both review on pages 8 to 21. appropriate and necessary.
Dividends The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises An interim dividend of 12.46p per ordinary share was paid on 18 a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and three nonOctober 2002.
The board recommends a final dividend of 18.44p executive directors: the Chairman was previously executive but became per ordinary share to be paid on 9 May 2003 to shareholders on the non-executive with effect from 1 May 2002.
Each of the non-executive register at the close of business on 11 April 2003.
This makes a total directors is independent for the purposes of the Combined Code of dividend for the year of 30.90p per ordinary share.
Best Practice namely, independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the Earnings per share exercise of his or her independent judgement.
The composition of the Details of the companys earnings per share are shown on page 28. board is thus considered to be well-balanced.
Directors All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
In Details of the current members of the board are shown on page 23. addition, there is a formal procedure by which any director may take They all served as directors throughout 2002.
No other person was independent professional advice at the companys expense in the a director of the company during the year.
performance of his or her duties.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
Directors interests in shares in the company As at 31 December 2002 the beneficial interests of the directors Non-executive directors are appointed for fixed periods of three years, in the issued share capital of the company were as follows: subject to election by shareholders.
Their initial three years may be extended for one further three year period and, in exceptional cases, 31 December 1 January for a further three year period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Number of shares 2002 2002 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated.
The John van Kuffeler 13,395 10,000 non-executive Deputy Chairman is the senior director other than the Robin Ashton 39,672 58,500 Chairman to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The executive directors John Harnett 8,000 8,000 are responsible for the day-to-day running of the group but the board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, Chris Johnstone 97,590 92,318 including corporate strategy, approval of budgets, financial results, new David Swann 53,638 47,035 board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval Charles Gregson 1,837 1,837 of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis.
Angela Heylin 1,100 1,100 The company has established five committees: the audit committee, John Maxwell 2,100 2,100 the executive committee, the nomination committee, the remuneration committee and the risk advisory committee.
There is a framework of internal controls both financial and non-financial which are kept under review by the audit and risk advisory committees.
Important note: For more detailed information, reference should be made to The summary directors report, the summary directors the directors report, the directors remuneration report and the remuneration report on pages 25 to 27 and the summary financial full accounts, all contained in the Annual Report and Accounts statement on pages 28 to 31 are a summary of the information 2002.
The statutory accounts will be delivered to the Registrar contained in the Provident Financial plc Annual Report and of Companies and the auditors have reported on them.
The Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 the Annual auditors report was unqualified and did not contain a statement Report and Accounts 2002.
The Annual Review and Summary under section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
A copy Financial Statement 2002 does not contain sufficient information of the Annual Report and Accounts 2002 can be obtained free of to allow a full understanding of the results of the Provident charge by writing to the companys registrar at the address on Financial group, the state of affairs of the company and Provident page 33.
It can also be accessed on the companys website at Financial group and the policies and arrangements concerning www.
Shareholders wishing to receive the directors remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts as well as the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement free of charge in future years should write to the companys registrar at the address on page 33.
24 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Summary directors remuneration report 1.
Introduction This information is extracted from the directors remuneration report of Provident Financial plc the company for the financial year ended 31 December 2002 which was prepared pursuant to and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the company to be held on 30 April 2003.
Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration 2.1 The remuneration policy applied by the remuneration committee the committee is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in a manner consistent with the long-term accumulation of value for shareholders.
The committee is also conscious of the need to avoid paying more than is reasonable for this purpose.
2.2 The executive directors remuneration consists of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus subject to performance conditions and other benefits.
The directors participate in pension schemes.
Additionally they participate in an employee savings-related share option scheme which is not subject to performance conditions, executive share options which are subject to performance conditions and the performance share plan which is subject to performance conditions.
2.3 The committee reviews the executive directors remuneration annually.
In December 2002, the committee decided to continue the existing policy of setting the executive directors basic salaries in the lower quartile to median range determined by reference to a broad range of appropriate companies selected by Monks Partnership but to increase the potential earnings under the annual cash bonus scheme.
The committee also considered the individual performance of each director.
The executive directors salary increases averaged 6.6% and these increases were implemented from 1 January 2003.
2.4 Annual cash bonuses are payable, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
They are calculated as a percentage of salary.
The purpose of the bonus scheme is to provide a meaningful incentive for executive directors which is clearly focused on improving the groups performance and directly aligns shareholder and executive director interests.
Executive directors are eligible for annual cash bonuses by reference to the growth in the companys audited earnings per share as defined in the bonus scheme over the previous financial year and the achievement of agreed personal objectives.
For 2003, no bonus will be payable if growth in earnings per share is less than 4%.
Up to 15% of salary will be payable if growth in earnings per share is 4% and the percentage rises to a maximum of 100% of salary for 15% growth in earnings per share, provided that each directors agreed personal objectives have also been achieved.
In exceptional circumstances the committee may make such adjustments to the calculation of earnings per share as it considers fair and reasonable.
Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
2.5 The company currently operates two senior executive share option schemes.
Further details are set out in paragraphs 2.5.
1 The Provident Financial plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 is an Inland Revenue approved scheme.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options held by an executive under this scheme must not exceed 30,000.
The Provident Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 is not approved by the Inland Revenue.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options granted to an executive annually under both schemes must not exceed two times his her salary.
2 Both schemes have performance targets which have to be met before any options can be exercised.
3 For options granted prior to 2002 the performance condition is that over a three year period the real growth in earnings per share as defined must average 3% a year after making appropriate adjustments for inflation.
4 For options granted in 2002 the following performance conditions apply: a where the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price of up to one times directors salary, the real growth in earnings per share after adjusting for inflation must average 3% a year over a fixed three year period this period may be extended to four or five years : b to the extent that the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price in excess of one times directors salary, the condition is 4% rather than 3% real growth in earnings per share.
5 A performance condition based on earnings per share has been used in both executive schemes since their establishment in 1995 and 1996.
It is considered that this aligns the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
The performance conditions were amended in 2002 pursuant to the approval of the company in general meeting but retained earnings per share as their basis, reflecting the alignment of the interests of the directors and those of the shareholders.
6 The grant of options under the schemes to executive directors and senior managers is normally considered once in each year after the announcement of the companys results in accordance with a formula determined by reference to salary.
7 No executive options have been offered at a discount.
2.6 The executive directors together with other eligible group employees may participate in the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 1993.
Participants save a fixed sum each month for three or five years and have the option to use these funds to purchase Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 25 Summary directors remuneration report continued shares after three, five or seven years.
The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the market value of the shares at the date directors and employees are invited to participate in the scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
This scheme does not contain performance conditions as it is an Inland Revenue approved scheme designed for employees at all levels.
2.7 The Provident Financial Performance Share Plan entitles executive directors who waive up to 50% of their annual cash bonus to be considered for participation.
Participants will receive a basic award of up to the value of the waived bonus together with a matching award of an equivalent amount which is subject to a performance condition.
In normal circumstances the awards vest after three years.
For awards granted in 2003 the matching award will vest only if the companys average growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of three consecutive financial years, the first of which is the financial year starting immediately before the grant date of the matching award.
The performance conditions were selected by the committee following advice from Monks Partnership and after consideration of other possible types of condition.
The committee took the view that the use of this earnings per share target aligned the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
2.8 The company has a share retention policy for executive directors which encourages them over a five year period to build up a shareholding based on shares acquired under senior executive share option schemes referred to in paragraph 2.5 above and the performance share plan referred to in paragraph 2.7 above with a market value of twice annual salary.
2.9 The executive directors are provided with company-owned cars, fuel, long-term disability income under the companys insured permanent health policy and medical cover for them and their immediate families.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
2.10 The executive directors have service agreements which require two years notice to be given by the company.
The company and the committee consider that the two year notice periods are in the best interests of the group.
In view of the groups specialist businesses, the main concern is to retain senior management and seek to ensure that they are not able to leave and make their valuable experience and training available to a competitor without adequate safeguards.
The company has a policy and a record of retaining its executive directors and management over the longer term and providing them with extensive development opportunities and with support in their study for qualifications.
No director has a service agreement containing a liquidated damages clause on termination: in the event of the termination of a contract, particularly for poor performance, it is the current policy to seek full mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to ensure that any payment made is the minimum which is commensurate with the companys legal obligations.
Where possible, the company would seek to make any payment in instalments and subject to appropriate conditions.
2.11 The fees for the non-executive directors are fixed by the board.
Their business expenses are reimbursed by the company.
2.12 It is currently envisaged that the existing policy on directors remuneration will continue for subsequent financial years but it will be reviewed again in December 2003.
Directors remuneration 3.1 The aggregate directors emoluments during the year amounted to 1,586,000 2001 1,566,000 excluding directors who retired in 2001 analysed as follows: 2002 2001 Salary Bonus Benefits Fees Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman John van Kuffeler from 01.01.02 to 30.04.02 127 15 142 479 from 01.05.02 to 31.12.02 83 19 102 Executive directors Robin Ashton 331 54 23 408 355 John Harnett 236 38 28 302 292 Chris Johnstone 210 33 19 262 179 David Swann 210 33 29 272 181 1,197 158 133 1,488 1,486 Non-executive directors Charles Gregson 30 30 25 Angela Heylin 4303428 John Maxwell 4303427 8909880 Total 1,197 158 141 90 1,586 1,566 John van Kuffeler became non-executive with effect from 1 May 2002.
26 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Summary directors remuneration report continued 3.2 The aggregate notional gain representing the difference between the exercise price and the market value of the shares at the date of exercise made by all the directors on the exercise of share options during 2002 amounted to 28,834 2001 111,500.
3.3 In February 2003 the directors participated in a performance share plan.
They waived bonuses totalling 62,413 and received conditional awards of shares in the company with an aggregate market value of 123,634 at the date of the award.
3.4 There are three directors 2001 three for whom retirement benefits are accruing under the Provident Financial Senior Pension Scheme and two directors 2001 two for whom retirement benefits are accruing under money purchase schemes.
3.5 The aggregate contributions made by the company to money purchase pension plans in 2002 were 108,232 2001 140,351.
Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return TSR for the companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was chosen for this comparison because the company has been a member of this index throughout the five year period.
Provident Financials TSR relative to the FTSE 250 Index Provident Financial 160 FTSE 250 140 120 100 80 60 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Base data at 31 December 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Provident Financial 100.0 119.2 97.3 141.7 100.3 93.9 FTSE 250 100.0 104.2 141.4 146.4 138.4 102.7 Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 27 TSR re-based 31 December 1997 Summary financial statement Summary consolidated profit and loss account 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 000 000 Turnover 874,992 833,178 Operating profit 182,140 169,610 Exceptional loss on disposal of business 10,700 Profit before taxation 171,440 169,610 Taxation 52,854 45,795 Profit after taxation 118,586 123,815 Dividends 76,922 71,788 Retained profit for the year 41,664 52,027 Earnings per share Basic 48.66p 50.39p Pre-exceptional 53.05p 50.39p Adjusted 53.19p 50.45p Diluted 48.50p 50.08p Dividend per share 30.90p 29.35p Restated to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The exceptional loss of 10,700,000 in the year ended 31 December 2002 relates to the disposal of the companys shareholding in Colonnade Insurance Brokers Limited.
An analysis of turnover and operating profit by class of business is set out below: Turnover Operating profit 2002 2001 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 000 000 000 000 UK home credit 484,289 465,539 152,492 150,376 Yes Car Credit 5,451 22 International 142,442 99,615 10,634 758 Motor insurance 232,116 244,369 35,837 35,119 864,298 809,523 198,985 186,253 Central 17,845 13,081 Ongoing operations 864,298 809,523 181,140 173,172 Colonnade Insurance Brokers 10,694 21,654 1,000 1,478 South Africa 1,964 3,608 Provident balance 37 1,432 Total 874,992 833,178 182,140 169,610 28 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Summary financial statement continued The international operating profit can be analysed as follows: 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 000 000 Poland 16,654 6,746 Czech Republic 5,128 2,455 Hungary 3,053 2,257 Slovakia 1,977 1,293 Divisional overheads 6,118 4,893 Operating profit 10,634 758 Earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share figures have been calculated using the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 118,586,000 2001 123,815,000.
The adjusted earnings per share figure is shown after excluding the exceptional loss on the disposal of Colonnade Insurance Brokers Limited and goodwill amortisation.
The adjustments made, and their impact on earnings per share, are as follows: 2002 2001 2002 Earnings 2001 Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 000 pence 000 pence Basic earnings and earnings per share 118,586 48.66 123,815 50.39 Exceptional loss 10,700 4.39 Pre-exceptional earnings and earnings per share 129,286 53.05 123,815 50.39 Amortisation of goodwill 338 0.14 135 0.06 Adjusted earnings and earnings per share 129,624 53.19 123,950 50.45 In 2001, the adjusted earnings per share figure was calculated so as to exclude the losses of businesses closed during that year.
In 2002, the company changed its definition of adjusted earnings per share to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation as, following the disposal of Colonnade Insurance Brokers and the acquisition of Yes Car Credit, it is the directors opinion, that this measure better represents underlying business performance.
Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 29 Summary financial statement continued Summary consolidated balance sheet 2002 2001 at 31 December 000 000 Fixed assets 137,979 52,938 Current assets Stock 10,987 Amounts receivable from customers due within one year 821,078 719,637 due in more than one year 141,915 9,614 Debtors 171,627 173,216 Investments 503,796 430,621 Cash at bank and in hand 48,474 44,623 1,697,877 1,377,711 Current liabilities Bank and other borrowings 38,248 42,969 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 180,859 173,047 Insurance accruals and deferred income 495,305 438,838 714,412 654,854 Net current assets 983,465 722,857 Total assets less current liabilities 1,121,444 775,795 Non-current liabilities Bank and other borrowings 695,386 473,231 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 21,936 Provision for liabilities and charges deferred taxation 1,450 6,016 Net assets 402,672 296,548 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 26,347 25,433 Share premium account 100,903 51,840 Revaluation reserve 2,651 1,641 Other reserves 4,358 4,358 Profit and loss account 268,413 213,276 Equity shareholders funds 402,672 296,548 The summary financial statement on pages 28 to 31 was approved by the board on 5 March 2003.
John van Kuffeler Chairman John Harnett Finance Director 30 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Summary financial statement continued Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 000 000 Net cash inflow from operating activities 151,472 159,713 Taxation 49,689 46,436 Capital expenditure and financial investment 14,527 6,487 Acquisitions 45,478 2,510 Disposals 26,661 Equity dividends paid 73,169 69,360 Management of liquid resources 73,404 110,621 Financing 81,070 81,000 Increase in cash in the period 2,936 5,299 The summary consolidated cash flow statement above has been prepared in accordance with FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements.
As required by that standard, the statement aggregates the cash flows arising from each division within the group.
However, the cash and investments held by those businesses that are regulated are required to be strictly segregated from the rest of the group and are not available to repay group borrowings.
At 31 December 2002 the cash and investments held by the groups regulated businesses amounted to 514.7 million 2001 443.3 million.
Report of the auditors Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc We have examined the summary financial statement of Provident Financial plc.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Provident Financial plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 5 March 2003 Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 31 Information for shareholders 1 Financial calendar dividends 2002 Final 2003 Interim Dividend announced 26 February 2003 23 July 2003 Ex-dividend date for ordinary shares 9 April 2003 17 September 2003 Record date for the dividend 11 April 2003 19 September 2003 Annual general meeting 30 April 2003 Payment date of the dividend 9 May 2003 17 October 2003 2 Share price Information on our share price is available on the companys website, www.
com and Ceefax on BBC1 BBC2 and on Teletext on ITV Channel 4.
Information is also available, at a cost, from FT Cityline telephone: 0906 843 3731.
The share price is listed in the following daily newspapers: Financial Times The Daily Telegraph The Guardian Daily Mail Yorkshire Post The Herald The Times The Independent The Express Evening Standard The Scotsman 3 Individual Savings Account ISA Shareholders may take out an ISA which includes shares in the company with a provider of their choice.
However, the company has made arrangements with Redmayne Bentley for the provision of an ISA for its shareholders and employees.
Shareholders who are eligible and who wish to take advantage of this should contact Redmayne Bentley, Merton House, 84 Albion Street, Leeds, West Yorkshire LS1 6AG telephone: 0113 243 6941.
4 Tax on capital gains 4.1 For the purposes of tax on capital gains, the price of an ordinary share in the company on 31 March 1982 was 130.50p.
When adjusted for the 1 for 5 scrip issue in 1986, the 5 for 2 share split in 1993, the 1 for 1 bonus issue in 1996 and the share capital consolidation in 1998, this gives a figure of 22.54p.
4.2 Shareholders for whom the price of ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 is relevant should note that their allowable expenditure in relation to future disposals of ordinary shares may also be affected by other factors, such as indexation and or the disposal of fractional entitlements pursuant to the share capital consolidation of the company in April 1998.
5 Tax on dividends 5.1 A UK resident individual shareholder who receives a dividend is entitled to a tax credit in respect of the dividend.
5.2 The tax credit is 1 9th of the dividend corresponding to 10% of the dividend and the associated tax credit.
5.3 A UK resident individual shareholder is therefore treated as having paid tax at 10% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit: as starting, lower and basic rate taxpayers are liable to tax on the dividend and associated tax credit at 10%, they will have no further liability to tax in respect of the dividend.
5.4 The tax liability on dividends for UK resident higher rate taxpayers is 32.5% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit, so that their liability for additional tax is equal to 22.5% on the aggregate of the dividend and the associated tax credit.
5.5 Except as mentioned in 5.6 below, UK resident individuals cannot claim a refund of the 10% tax credit.
5.6 Shareholders who hold their shares through PEPs or ISAs will be able to reclaim the 10% tax credit attaching to dividends paid on or before 5 April 2004.
5.7 Arrangements can be made for a shareholders dividends to be paid directly into a nominated bank account.
Details are available on request from the companys registrar see paragraph 7 below.
6 The Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme 6.1 The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme.
The key features of the scheme are: 6.1.
1 Your shares are held for you in a nominee account and you will receive regular statements of your account: you will not hold a share certificate: 6.1.
2 It provides a facility to allow you to deal in the companys shares by means of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system: 32 Annual Review 2002|Provident Financial Information for shareholders continued 6.1.
3 It provides a facility for you to reinvest your dividends in the companys shares: 6.1.
4 You will still retain the benefits of direct shareholding, such as prompt payments of dividends, a copy of the annual report and attendance, and voting, at the annual general meeting: and 6.1.
5 The service is provided at no cost to you.
However, if you wish to use the facility to deal in the companys shares or reinvest your dividends, you will have to pay charges.
6.2 Full details are available on request from the companys registrar see paragraph 7 below.
7 Registrar 7.1 The registrar deals with all matters relating to transfers of ordinary shares in the company and with enquiries concerning holdings.
The registrar is: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU telephone: 0870 162 3100.
7.2 The registrars website is www.
This will give you access to your personal shareholding by means of your investor code which is printed on your share certificate or statement of holding.
8 Share ownership analysis as at 26 February 2003 Shareholders Shareholders Shareholding range Number % Up to 1,000 3,470 45.24 1,001 5,000 2,670 34.80 5,001 50,000 1,107 14.43 50,001 500,000 343 4.47 500,001 1,000,000 33 0.43 1,000,001 48 0.63 Total 7,671 100.00 Advisers Company details Auditors Registered office and contact details  Provident Financial plc Colonnade Joint financial advisers and stockbrokers Sunbridge Road Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Bradford Merrill Lynch West Yorkshire BD1 2LQ Registrar Capita Registrars telephone: 44 0 1274 731111 fax: 44 0 1274 727300 Solicitors email: enquiries@providentfinancial.
com Slaughter and May website: www.
com Eversheds Company number 668987 Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
Provident Financial | Annual Review 2002 33 Paper specifications One of Provident Financials environmental objectives is to use paper as efficiently as possible.
This report is produced on material which comprises 50% TCF totally chlorine free pulp from sustainable forests and 50% recycled and fide-inked pulp from preand postconsumer waste.
Provident Financial plc Colonnade Sunbridge Road Bradford West Yorkshire BD1 2LQ United Kingdom telephone: 44 0 1274 731111 fax: 44 0 1274 727300 email: enquiries@providentfinancial.
