Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the continue in business.
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure consistently: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the state whether applicable accounting standards have been Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Prudential plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 47 to 85.
We unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and have also audited the information on pages 37 to 43 in the directors consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a inconsistencies with the financial statements.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Basis of Audit Opinion state to the Companys members those matters we are required We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the above, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent assurance that the financial statements and the part of the auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our In our opinion: opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 records, if we have not received all the information and and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the financial statements and the part of the directors the Group is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the statement on pages 30 to 32 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all KPMG Audit Plc risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Chartered Accountants the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Registered Auditor control procedures.
London 21 March 2003 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the 86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002
