23 Report of the Independent Auditors TO THE MEMBERS OF RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 24 to 49, and the additional disclosures on pages 17 to 19 relating to the remuneration of the Directors specified for our review by the Financial Services Authority, which have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investments other than subsidiary undertakings, and the accounting policies set out on pages 29 to 31.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 16.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information consists of the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report including the corporate governance statement and the Review of Principal Investments.
We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 15 to 17 reflects the Groups compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2002 and of the total return and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southwark Towers, 32 London Bridge Street, London SE1 9SY 20 May 2002 RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
