ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 50 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Total We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Recognised Gains and Losses, the Movements in Shareholders issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Funds, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Parent Company examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable Statement and the related notes including the Accounting Policies, part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies, of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Segmental Information, the statements of the Principal Subsidiary in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Companies and the Principal Associated Undertakings and Other the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys significant Shareholdings which have been prepared in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have also audited the disclosures We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 information and explanations which we considered necessary in contained in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Equalisation reserves Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Our evaluation of the presentation of information in the financial auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with statements has had regard to the statutory requirement for relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom insurance companies to maintain equalisation reserves.
The nature Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This of equalisation reserves, the amount set aside at 31 December report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for 2002, and the effect of the movement in those reserves during the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section the year on the General Business Technical Account and loss on 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do ordinary activities before tax, are disclosed in note 9. not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any Opinion other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at agreed by our prior consent in writing.
31 December 2002 and of the loss and cash ows of the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial for the year then ended: the financial statements have been statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are and those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  LLP information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and transactions is not disclosed.
Southwark Towers, London, 5 March 2003 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Industry Overview, the Chief Executives Review, the Board of Directors, the Group Finance Directors Report, the Sensitivity Analysis and the Share and Shareholder Analysis, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report and the Five Year Financial Review.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
