Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended Report, and translated into euros the Consolidated Statement 30 June 2002 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of of Total Return, Group and Company Balance Sheets, and Total Return, Company Statement of Total Return, Group and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the Company Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Summary, Information for Shareholders, Notice and Agenda Statement and the related notes 1 to 31.
These accounts have and Glossary.
We consider the implications for our report if been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in accordance with also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are 29 Services Authority.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give applied and adequately disclosed.
a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our information and explanations which we considered necessary opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material records, if we have not received all the information and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or explanations we require for our audit, or if information error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
remuneration and transactions with the Group is not OPINION disclosed.
In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 30 June reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions 2002 and of the net deficit of the Company and of the Group of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to accordance with the Companies Act 1985. consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Registered Auditor consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
London This other information comprises the Investment Objective, 7 October 2002 Directors and Advisers, Financial Highlights and Historical Record, Chairman and CEOs Statement, Portfolio Review, Twenty Largest Underlying Companies, List of Investments, Report of the Directors, Statement of Directors Responsibilities, Corporate Governance, Remuneration
