INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CARLTON We review whether the corporate governance statement COMMUNICATIONS PLC reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions We have audited the financial statements which comprise the of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement consider whether the Boards statements on internal control of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the movements in shareholders funds and the related notes, effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance including the additional disclosures included within tables 1 to 5 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and related notes of the Directors Report relating to the remuneration of the directors of Carlton Communications Plc Basis of audit opinion specified for our review by the Financial Services Authority.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It and the financial statements in accordance with applicable also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the in the statement of directors responsibilities.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, applied and adequately disclosed.
United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services all the information and explanations which we considered Authority.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are statements give a true and fair view and are properly free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company of information in the financial statements.
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Opinion our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at not disclosed.
30 September 2002 and the loss and cash flows of the Group We read the other information contained in the Annual for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in Report and consider the implications for our report if we accordance with the Companies Act 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other  information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chartered Accountants Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, and Registered Auditors the operating and financial review and the corporate London governance statement.
