Independent Auditors Report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 60 to 105.
We have Basis of audit opinion also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant directors remuneration report.
As described on page 58, this includes estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United and adequately disclosed.
Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting statements and the part of the directors remuneration report records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we to be audited.
require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group Opinion is not disclosed.
In our opinion: We review whether the statement on pages 44 and 45 reflects the The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined of the Company and the Group as at 31December 2002 Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance with the Companies Act 1985. procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including Chartered Accountants the corporate governance statement, and the unaudited part of the Registered Auditor directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent London, 19 February 2003 with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
