27 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Independent auditors report to the members of Carpetright plc We have audited the accounts on pages 28 to 38.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on page 26, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities as independent auditors are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 22 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal controls covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 27 April 2002 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 24 June 2002
