Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements which We read the other information contained in the comprise the statement of total return, the annual report and consider the implications for our consolidated and company balance sheets, the cash report if we become aware of any apparent flow statement, and the related notes.
We have also misstatements or material inconsistencies with the audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of financial statements.
The other information Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained comprises only the Chairmans statement, the in the report on the directors remuneration the Managers report, the report of the directors, the auditable part.
unaudited part of the report on the directors remuneration, and the corporate governance Respective responsibilities of directors and statement.
auditors We review whether the corporate governance The directors responsibilities for preparing the statement reflects the Companys compliance with annual report, the report on the directors the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified remuneration and the financial statements in for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We and accounting standards are set out in the are not required to consider whether the Boards statement of directors responsibilities.
statements on internal control cover all risks and Our responsibility is to audit the financial controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness statements and the auditable part of the report on of the Companys corporate governance procedures the directors remuneration in accordance with or its risk and control procedures.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Basis of audit opinion Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the We conducted our audit in accordance with opinion, has been prepared for and only for the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Companys members as a body in accordance with Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, disclosures in the financial statements and the accept or assume responsibility for any other auditable part of the report on the directors purpose or to any other person to whom this report remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the is shown or into whose hands it may come save significant estimates and judgements made by the where expressly agreed by our prior consent in directors in the preparation of the financial writing.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, We report to you our opinion as to whether the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain part of the report on the directors remuneration all the information and explanations which we have been properly prepared in accordance with the considered necessary in order to provide us with Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that our opinion, the report of the directors is not the financial statements and the auditable part of consistent with the financial statements, if the the directors remuneration report are free from Company has not kept proper accounting records, material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or if we have not received all the information and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion explanations we require for our audit, or if we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the information specified by law regarding directors presentation of information in the financial remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 20 Independent auditors report continued Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view those parts of the report on the directors of the state of affairs of the Company and the remuneration required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A group at 31 December 2002 and of the total to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly return and cash flows of the group for the year prepared in accordance with the Companies Act then ended: 1985. the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  LLP 1985: and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southwark T owers 32 London Bridge Street London SE1 9SY 18 February 2003 Temple Bar Investment Trust 21
