Independent Auditors Report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of Witan Investment We read the directors report and the other information Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the statement of total return, the balance sheet, the cash ow the contents section including the unaudited part of the statement and the related notes 1 to 24.
These financial directors remuneration report and consider the implications for statements have been prepared under the accounting policies our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
of the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Companys members those matters we are required to state to the part of the directors remuneration report described as them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Company, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable financial statements in accordance with applicable United assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible remuneration report described as having been audited are free from for the preparation of the other information contained in the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity annual report including the directors remuneration report.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial the directors remuneration report described as having been statements and the part of the directors remuneration report audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and described as having been audited.
regulatory requirements and auditing standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2002 and of its total statements and the part of the directors remuneration report return for the year then ended: and described as having been audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements and the part of the directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our remuneration report described as having been audited have been opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified DELOITTE & TOUCHE by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reects London the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the 3 February 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Note to those who access this document by electronic means the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion provide absolute assurance in this area.
on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of procedures or its risk and control procedures.
financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
