Statement of directors responsibilities reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and for preparing the financial statements that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the prepare financial statements for each year which give a true company keeps accounting records which disclose with and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or and the group and which enable them to ensure that the loss for the financial year.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial The directors have general responsibility for taking such statements on pages 32 to 67, the company has used appropriate steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report to the members or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk of Centrica plc and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow Basis of audit opinion statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing and the related notes which have been prepared under the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
historical cost convention and the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of out in the principal accounting policies note.
We have also evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A in the financial statements and the auditable part of to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an remuneration report the auditable part.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements, and of whether the accounting policies are The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently the directors remuneration report and the financial statements applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain accounting standards are set out in the statement of all the information and explanations which we considered directors responsibilities.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Board.
This report including the opinion has been prepared for we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation and only for the companys members as a body in accordance of information in the financial statements.
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Opinion responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to In our opinion: whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come the financial statements give a true and fair view save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the state of affairs of the company and the group We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash flows statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial of the group for the year then ended: statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration the financial statements have been properly prepared report have been properly prepared in accordance with the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, those parts of the directors remuneration report required the directors report is not consistent with the financial by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting have been properly prepared in accordance with records, if we have not received all the information and the Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and The maintenance and integrity of the Centrica plc website is transactions is not disclosed.
the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the We read the other information contained in the annual report auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies changes that may have occurred to the financial statements with the financial statements.
The other information comprises since they were initially presented on the website.
only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the chief Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation executives statement, the operating and financial review, and dissemination of financial statements may differ from the group financial review, the statement of corporate legislation in other jurisdictions.
responsibility, the corporate governance statement and the gas and liquids reserves.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing  Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards 1 Embankment Place statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London WC2N 6RH to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys 20 February 2003 Centrica plc report 2002 31
