Financial Statements Report of independent auditors 65 Report of the auditors to the members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC the information and explanations which we considered We have audited the accounts, which have been prepared necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence under the historical cost convention, set out on page 66 to to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the 112, 118 to 133 and 135 to 136.
We have also audited the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free auditable part of the directors remuneration report as set from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or out on page 60. other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of information in the accounts.
As described on pages 63 and 64, the directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts Netherlands and United Kingdom opinion and Form 20-F.
This includes responsibility for preparing In our opinion, the accounts give a true and fair view of the accounts in accordance with applicable accounting the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, Unilever N. V. and standards.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in Unilever PLC at 31 December 2002 and of the profit, total accordance with applicable law, auditing standards and recognised gains and cash ows of the Group for the year listing rules in the Netherlands and United Kingdom.
In our opinion the accounts of the Unilever Group, and of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC respectively, We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with Title 9, give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United accordance with Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion, the auditable Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. part of the directors remuneration report has been properly We also report whether the auditable part of the directors prepared in accordance with the applicable requirements in remuneration report is properly prepared in accordance with the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
the applicable requirements in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We would also report to you if, in our United States opinion opinion, the directors report was not consistent with the In our opinion, the accounts present fairly, in all material accounts, if proper accounting records had not been kept, respects, the financial position of the Unilever Group if we had not received all the information and explanations at 31 December 2002 and 2001, and the results of its we require for our audit, or if information required regarding operations, total recognised gains and its cash ows for each directors remuneration and transactions were not disclosed.
of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2002, in accordance with the accounting information and policies We read the other information contained in the on pages 66 to 68.
Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our audit report if we become aware The accounting principles applied vary in certain significant of any material misstatements or inconsistencies with respects from accounting principles generally accepted the accounts.
The effect of the major differences in the determination of net profit and capital and reserves As auditors of Unilever PLC we review whether the is shown on pages 118 and 119. statement on pages 44 and 45 reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined As discussed in note 18 to the consolidated accounts, the Code specified for our review by the United Kingdoms Group changed its method of accounting for deferred taxes Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
in 2002 in accordance with accounting principles generally We are not required to consider whether the directors accepted in the United Kingdom.
The change has been statements on internal control cover all risks and controls accounted for by restating comparative information at or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 31 December 2001 and 2000, and for the years then ended.
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of opinion  Accountants N. V. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing Rotterdam, The Netherlands standards generally accepted in the Netherlands, the As auditors of Unilever N. V. United Kingdom and the United States.
An audit includes an examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the  LLP amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an London, England assessment of the most important estimates and judgements As auditors of Unilever PLC made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 4 March 2003 the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
