66 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors to the Shareholders internal control cover all risks and controls, Opinion of The British Land Company PLC or form an opinion on the effectiveness In our opinion the financial statements give We have audited the financial statements of of the groups corporate governance a true and fair view of the state of affairs of The British Land Company PLC for the year procedures or its risk and control the company and of the group at 31 March ended 31 March 2002 which comprise the procedures.
2002 and of the groups profit for the year Profit and loss account, Balance sheets, Cash We read the other information contained then ended and have been properly flow statement, Statement of total recognised in the annual report, and consider whether prepared in accordance with the Companies gains and losses and the related notes it is consistent with the audited financial Act 1985. numbered 1 to 25.
This other information comprises statements have been prepared under the only the Chairmans statement, Financial accounting policies set out therein.
review, Directors report, Corporate governance statements, Remuneration report, Respective responsibilities of directors and Statement of directors responsibilities Arthur Andersen auditors and Ten-year record.
We consider the Chartered Accountants and Registered The directors responsibilities for preparing implications for our report if we become Auditors the annual report and the financial aware of any apparent misstatements or statements in accordance with applicable material inconsistencies with the financial 180 Strand law and United Kingdom Accounting statements.
Our responsibilities do not London Standards are set out in the Statement of extend to any other information.
Our responsibility 28th May 2002 is to audit the financial statements in Basis of audit opinion accordance with relevant legal and We conducted our audit in accordance with regulatory requirements, United Kingdom United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit of the Financial Services Authority.
includes examination, on a test basis, of We report to you our opinion as to evidence relevant to the amounts and whether the financial statements give a true disclosures in the financial statements.
and fair view and are properly prepared in It also includes an assessment of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. significant estimates and judgments made We also report to you if, in our opinion, the by the directors in the preparation of the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements and of whether the financial statements, if the company has accounting policies are appropriate to the not kept proper accounting records, if we circumstances of the company and of the have not received all the information and group, consistently applied and adequately explanations we require for our audit, or if disclosed.
information specified by law or the Listing We planned and performed our audit Rules regarding directors remuneration and so as to obtain all the information and transactions with the company and other explanations which we considered necessary members of the group is not disclosed.
in order to provide us with sufficient We review whether the Corporate evidence to give reasonable assurance that governance statements reflects the the financial statements are free from companys compliance with the seven material misstatement, whether caused by provisions of the Combined Code specified fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming for our review by the Listing Rules, and we our opinion we also evaluated the overall report if they do not.
We are not required to adequacy of the presentation of information consider whether the boards statements on in the financial statements.
It takes more than one to make a ballet.
Dame Ninette fide Valois Report of the Auditors
