NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST REPORT OF THE AUDITORS ATEMENTS To the members of Kingston Communications HULL PLC At 31 March 2002 We have audited the financial statements of Kingston Communications We read the other information contained in the annual report, and consider HULL PLC for the year ended 31 March 2002 which comprise the profit whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other and loss account, balance sheets, cashow statement, statement of total information comprises only the Chairmans statement, operating and recognised gains and losses and the related notes numbered 1 to 29. financial review, Directors report, corporate governance statements, These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting remuneration report, statement of Directors responsibilities and five-year policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Basis of audit opinion Accounting Standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if they do Opinion not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the of affairs of the Company and of the Group at 31 March 2002 and of the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk Groups loss for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in and control procedures.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Arthur Andersen Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 6 June 2002 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 25
