Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group PLC for We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing the year ended 30 September 2002 which comprise the consolidated standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statement and related notes, the consolidated statement of total disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the consolidated shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 29.
These preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and of the set out therein.
Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements, auditing in the financial statements.
standards, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Opinion give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 30 September 2002 is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have been proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Deloitte & Touche Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on London internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 3 December 2002 effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
