27 Computacenter plc Directors report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the accounts records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Company law requires the Directors to prepare the accounts for the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure each financial period that give a true and fair view of the state of that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Directors are required to: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Auditors consistently: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in make judgements and estimates that are reasonable office as auditor and a resolution approving the re-appointment and prudent: of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be state whether applicable accounting standards have been proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is AJ Pottinger inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will Secretary continue in its business.
11 March 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 31 December 2002 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, procedures.
Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Statement of Cash Flows, We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Funds and the whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other related notes 1 to 32.
These financial statements have been prepared on information comprises the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Finance Directors Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors or for the opinions we have formed.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applied and adequately disclosed.
applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared Opinion in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2002 statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code Ernst & Young LLP specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
Registered Auditor We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Luton control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 11 March 2003
