Independent Auditors Report to the members of Slough Estates plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise We review whether the corporate governance statements the Group profit and loss account, the statement of Group reflect the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing total recognised gains and losses, the notes of Group historical Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if cost profits and losses, the reconciliation of movement in they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the Group shareholders funds, the balance sheets, the Group boards statements on internal control cover all risks and cash flow statement and the related notes, and the accounting controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of its risk and control procedures.
Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit and auditors includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the directors remuneration report and the financial the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the directors responsibilities.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the information and explanations which we considered Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to has been prepared for and only for the companys members give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of informwhose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by ation in the financial statements.
our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: financial statements and the auditable part of the directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the remuneration report have been properly prepared in state of affairs of the company and the Group at 31 December accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent year then ended: with the financial statements, if the company has not kept the financial statements have been properly prepared in proper accounting records, if we have not received all the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information and explanations we require for our audit, or if those parts of the directors remuneration report required by information specified by law regarding directors rePart 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 have been muneration and transactions is not disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we  LLP become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other Reading information comprises only the financial summary, chairmans 18 March 2003 statement, chief executives review, financial review, corporate governance guidelines, five year results, directors report, the Note unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and combined code and the other information for shareholders, set dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in out on the contents page.
63 The Combined Code and Slough Estates plcs Statement of Adherence The company has applied all relevant aspects of the Principles and complied with the Best Practice Provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code for all of 2002.
The companys Corporate Governance Guidelines are published on pages 36 and 37 of the 2002 Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS nominating them for election by the shareholders on first appointment.
The Board The Board of Directors is responsible to the shareholders for Independent professional advice the Groups management and internal financial control There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent systems and represents their interests in maintaining and professional advice and they have complete access to senior growing a successful business.
Chairman and CEO Re-election Sir Nigel Mobbs was appointed Chairman in 1976 and he is All directors are subject to periodic re-appointment by the supported by a non-executive Deputy Chairman and a Chief shareholders at three yearly intervals.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Board balance In addition to the Chairman, there are four executive Disclosure directors and there are five non-executive directors.
BioThe companys policy regarding the level and make-up of graphies of the board members appear on pages 44 and 45. remuneration, the remuneration policy, service contracts, The Board considers that all the non-executive directors, compensation and interest in shares are set out in the Directors with the exception of Mr D Kramer, are independent as they Remuneration Report of the Remuneration Committee on are free from any business or other relationship which could pages 54 to 61. materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Supply of information Dialogue with institutional shareholders Board meetings are held on a regular monthly basis and The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated executive directors are the companys principal spokesmen with investors, there is a defined schedule of matters reserved for decisions by the Board.
fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Board receives timely advice on all material information The company publishes its Annual Report and Accounts and about the company, its subsidiaries, its activities, performance Interim Statement and also its policy statements governing and its projects, particularly including any significant ethical, environmental and personnel issues.
There is regular variances from a planned course of progress.
dialogue with individual institutional shareholders.
Appointments to the Board Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting A Nomination Committee comprising a majority of directors At the Annual General Meeting, investors are given the has responsibility for making recommendations for new opportunity to question the Board and to meet with them appointments to the Board.
They are encouraged to participate in the meeting.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of Photographic displays and literature are available to illustrate agreeing to the appointment of its own members and for the companys developments.
64 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 updated and reported to the Board quarterly.
A complete Web site risk and control assessment was undertaken before reporting The company has a web site which includes details of the on the year ending 31 December 2002. business, both corporate and financial, property and During 2002 the Board discharged its responsibility for internal personnel.
control through the following key procedures: the establishment of an organisational structure with ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: Financial reporting a comprehensive system of reporting, budgeting and The Board believes that it presents a balanced and underplanning against which performance is monitored: standable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in a number of key areas such as treasury operations, capital Going concern expenditures and environmental matters.
These are reviewed After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable from time to time by the Board to confirm their adequacy: expectation that the Group has adequate resources to the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern performance appraisal process.
basis in preparing the accounts.
The internal control system is monitored through a process of self-certification whereby senior management report on Internal control the operation of those elements of the system for which The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system they are responsible.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups The Board continues to apply the procedures necessary to systems of internal control during the financial year.
This comply with the requirements of the Turnbull guidance involved consideration of a management report on the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined systems and the results of the self-certification process.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and It must be recognised that such systems are designed to managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve place throughout 2002 and to the date of approval of the business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not annual report and accounts.
The executive directors and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
senior operational management are responsible for identifying key risks and assessing their likelihood and impact Audit Committee and Auditors through formal processes at both Group and subsidiary An Audit Committee has been in place since 1990 and it levels.
The controls that are in place to manage these meets at least twice a year with the Auditors.
significant risks in each unit have been identified within a comprehensive control framework and an assessment has The Committee comprises all the UK resident non-executive been made of the effectiveness of these controls.
A full risk directors under the Chairmanship of The Rt Hon Lord assessment was completed in January 2001, which has been MacGregor of Pulham Market OBE.
