INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of fide Vere Group Plc We read the other information contained We have audited the Groups Accounts for in the Annual Report and consider whether the year ended 29 September 2002, which it is consistent with the audited Accounts.
comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss This other information comprises the Account, Group Balance Sheet, Company Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Business Review, Financial Review, Report of Statement, Group Statement of Total the Directors, Statement on Corporate Recognised Gains and Losses, Statement of Governance and Report on Directors Accounting Policies, Reconciliation of Remuneration.
We consider the Movement in Shareholders Funds and the implications for our report if we become related Notes 1 to 27.
These Accounts have aware of any apparent misstatements or been prepared on the basis of the material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of Audit Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing We conducted our audit in accordance the Annual Report and the Accounts in with Auditing Standards issued by the accordance with applicable United Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Kingdom law and accounting standards are examination, on a test basis, of evidence set out in the Statement of Directors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts judgements made by the Directors in the in accordance with relevant legal and preparation of the Accounts, and of regulatory requirements, United Kingdom whether the accounting policies are Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of appropriate to the Groups circumstances, the Financial Services Authority.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Accounts give a true and fair We planned and performed our audit so as view and are properly prepared in to obtain all the information and accordance with the Companies Act 1985. explanations which we considered We also report to you if, in our opinion, necessary in order to provide us with the Directors report is not consistent with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Accounts, if the company has not kept assurance that the Accounts are free from proper accounting records, if we have not material misstatement, whether caused by received all the information and fraud or other irregularity or error.
In explanations we require for our audit, or if forming our opinion we also evaluated the the information specified by law or the overall adequacy of the presentation of Listing Rules regarding Directors information in the Accounts.
remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the Accounts give a true We review whether the Corporate and fair view of the state of affairs of Governance statement reflects the the Company and of the Group as at Companys compliance with the seven 29 September 2002, and of the profit of provisions of the Combined Code specified the Group for the year then ended and for our review by the Listing Rules, and we have been properly prepared in accordance report if it does not.
We are not required with the Companies Act 1985. to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or to form an opinion on the Ernst & Young LLP effectiveness of either the Groups Registered Auditor Corporate Governance procedures or its Manchester risk and control procedures.
4 December 2002 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 25
