Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of DS Smith Plc formerly David S. Smith Holdings Plc We have audited the financial statements Basis of audit opinion on pages 40 to 67.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Respective responsibilities of Directors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes and Auditors examination, on a test basis, of evidence The Directors are responsible for preparing relevant to the amounts and disclosures the Annual Report.
As described on page in the financial statements.
It also includes 38, this includes responsibility for preparing an assessment of the significant estimates the financial statements in accordance and judgements made by the Directors in with applicable United Kingdom law and the preparation of the financial statements, accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, and of whether the accounting policies are as independent auditors, are established in appropriate to the Groups circumstances, the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our We planned and performed our audit so as professions ethical guidance.
to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order We report to you our opinion as to whether to provide us with sufficient evidence to the financial statements give a true and give reasonable assurance that the financial fair view and are properly prepared in statements are free from material accordance with the Companies Act 1985. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We also report to you if, in our opinion, the other irregularity or error.
In forming our Directors Report is not consistent with the opinion we also evaluated the overall financial statements, if the Company has adequacy of the presentation of information not kept proper accounting records, if we in the financial statements.
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Opinion if information specified by law or the Listing In our opinion the financial statements give Rules regarding Directors remuneration and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the Company and the Group as at 30 April 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the We review whether the statement on financial year then ended and have been pages 31 and 32 reflects the Companys properly prepared in accordance with the compliance with the seven provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate KPMG Audit Plc governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants control procedures.
Registered Auditor London We read the other information contained in 26 June 2002 the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
39 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
