Aggreko WEB pdf 14 3 03 11:40 am Page 36 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO plc We have audited the Accounts which comprise the Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Accounts give a true and fair view and whether the Accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement and Operating Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Accounts and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Accounts.
Opinion In our opinion: the Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: the Accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Glasgow 27 February 2003 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Aggreko plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Aggreko WEB pdf 14 3 03 11:40 am Page 37 CONTENTS 38 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND 41 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW LOSS ACCOUNT STATEMENT 38 GROUP STATEMENT OF TOTAL 42 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 57 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 39 BALANCE SHEETS 59 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 40 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 60 FINANCIAL SUMMARY 37 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
