easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 kpmg KPMG Audit Plc PO Box 695 8 Salisbury Square London Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 32 to 72.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on page 30, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 17 to 20 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report on whether it does or not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal controls cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risks and other control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 30 September 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc 25 November 2002 Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 31
