33 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the Groups system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
D R Hooper Secretary 20 November 2002 Independent Auditors report to the Members of Enodis plc We have audited the financial statements of Enodis plc for the year ended 28 September 2002 which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements, auditing standards, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 28 September 2002 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 20 November 2002
