Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC We have audited the financial statements of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 2002 which comprise the group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the group cash flow statement, the group statement of total recognized gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 26.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements, auditing standards, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at September 30 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London November 20 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 27
