Exel plc Annual report 2002 Governance 49 to operating cash flow, reconciliation of net We read other information contained in Directors cash flow to movement in net debt, group the Annual Report and consider whether balance sheet, parent company balance it is consistent with the audited financial responsibilities sheet, accounting policies and the related statements.
This other information comprises notes 1 to 29.
These financial statementshave Strategy, Performance, Governance been prepared on the basis of the accounting including the unaudited part of the Directors responsibilities policies set out therein.
We have also audited Directors remuneration report, Financial The following statement, which should be the information in the Directors remuneration review, Group four year record and read in conjunction with the Auditors report, report that is described on page 36 as having Investor relations.
We consider the is made with a view to distinguishing for been audited.
implications for our report if we become shareholders the respective responsibilities of aware of any apparent misstatements or the Directors and of the Auditors in relation This report is made solely to the Companys material inconsistencies with the financial to the financial statements.
members, as a body, in accordance with statements.
Our responsibilities do not Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. extend to any other information.
The Directors are required by the Our audit work has been undertaken so that Companies Act 1985 to prepare a financial we might state to the Companys members Basis of audit opinion statements for each financial year which those matters we are required to state to We conducted our audit in accordance give a true and fair view of the state of affairs them in an auditors report and for no other with United Kingdom Auditing Standards of the Company and the Group as at the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An end of the financial year and of the profit law, we do not accept or assume responsibility audit includes examination, on a test basis, of the Group for the financial year and to anyone other than the Company and of evidence relevant to the amounts and b a Directors remuneration report.
the Companys members as a body, for our disclosures in the financial statements and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the part of the Directors remuneration The Directors consider that, in preparingthe we have formed.
It also includes an financial statements on pages 54 to 88, the assessment of the significant estimates and Group has used appropriate accounting Respective responsibilities judgements made by the Directors in the policies, consistently applied, supported by of Directors and Auditors preparation of the financial statements and reasonable and prudent judgements and The Directors responsibilities for preparing of whether the accounting policies are estimates and that applicable accounting the Annual Report, the Directors appropriate to the Groups circumstances, standards have been followed.
remuneration report and the financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable The Directors have responsibility for United Kingdom law and accounting standards We planned and performed our audit ensuring that the Company keeps are set out in the statement of Directors so as to obtain all the information and accounting records which disclose with responsibilities.
explanations which we considered reasonable accuracy the financial position necessary in order to provide us with of the Company and which enable them Our responsibility is to audit the financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable to ensure that the financial statements statements and the part of the Directors assurance that the financial statements and comply with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration report to be audited in the part of the Directors remuneration accordance with relevant legal and regulatory report to be audited are free from material The Directors have general responsibility for requirements, United Kingdom Auditing misstatement, whether caused by fraud taking such steps as are reasonably open to Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial or other irregularity or error.
In forming them both to safeguard the assets of the Services Authority.
our opinion we also evaluated the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and overall adequacy of the presentation of other irregularities.
We report to you our opinion as to whether information in the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair and the part of the Directors remuneration The Directors, having prepared the financial view and whether the financial statements report to be audited.
statements and the Directors remuneration and the part of the Directors remuneration report, have requested the Auditors to take report to be audited have been properly Opinion whatever steps and undertake whatever prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: inspections they consider to be appropriate Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our the financial statements give a true and for the purpose of enabling them to give opinion, the Directors report is not consistent fair view of the state of affairs of the their audit report.
with the financial statements, if the Company Company and of the Group as at has not kept proper accounting records, if 31 December 2002 and of the profit of we have not received all the information and the Group for the year then ended: and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of Independent information specified by law or the Listing the Directors remuneration report to be Rules regarding Directors remuneration and audited have been properly prepared in Auditors report transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. to the members We review whether the corporate of Exel plc governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified We have audited the Groups financial for our review by the Listing Rules, and we Ernst & Young LLP statements for the year ended 31 December report if it does not.
We are not required to Registered Auditor 2002, which comprise the group profit and consider whether the Boards statements on London loss account, group statement of total internal control cover all risks and controls, 7 March 2003 recognised gains and losses, movements or form an opinion on the effectiveness of in shareholders funds, group cash flow the Group s corporate governance procedures statement, reconciliation of operating profit or its risk and control procedures.
