Independent Auditors Report Forth Ports PLC 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Forth Ports PLC We have audited the financial statements which We review whether the Corporate Governance comprise the profit and loss account, the balance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of seven provisions of the Combined Code specified total recognised gains and losses, the related for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial notes and the accounting policies set out in the Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Statement of Accounting Policies.
We have also are not required to consider whether the Boards audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of statements on internal control cover all risks and Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness contained in the Directors Remuneration of the Companys or Groups corporate governance Report the auditable part.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors Basis of audit opinion and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of and the financial statements in accordance with evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures applicable United Kingdom law and accounting in the financial statements and the auditable part standards are set out in the Statement of of the Directors Remuneration Report.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial preparation of the financial statements, and of statements and the auditable part of the Directors whether the accounting policies are appropriate Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant to the Companys circumstances, consistently legal and regulatory requirements and United applied and adequately disclosed.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, We planned and performed our audit so as to has been prepared for and only for the Companys obtain all the information and explanations which members as a body in accordance with Section 235 we considered necessary in order to provide of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept assurance that the financial statements and the or assume responsibility for any other purpose or auditable part of the Directors Remuneration to any other person to whom this report is shown Report are free from material misstatement, or into whose hands it may come save where whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the information in the financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable Opinion part of the Directors Remuneration Report have In our opinion: been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements give a true and fair Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in view of the state of affairs of the Company our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent and the Group at 31st December 2002 and with the financial statements, if the Company has of the profit and cash flows of the Group for not kept proper accounting records, if we have the year then ended: not received all the information and explanations the financial statements have been properly we require for our audit, or if information specified prepared in accordance with the Companies by law regarding Directors remuneration and Act 1985: and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to We read the other information contained in the the Companies Act 1985 have been properly Annual Report and consider the implications for prepared in accordance with the Companies our report if we become aware of any apparent Act 1985. misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information  LLP comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chartered Accountants Chief Executives Statement, the Financial Review, and Registered Auditors the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Edinburgh Report, and the unaudited part of the Directors 24th March 2003 Remuneration Report.
