92 GKN plc 2002 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss Basis of audit opinion account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards of total recognised gains and losses, the Companys balance sheet, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the segmental analysis and the related notes.
We have also audited examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the report Act 1985 contained in the report on Directors remuneration the on Directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the auditable part.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the applied and adequately disclosed.
report on Directors remuneration and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 77. information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the report of the report on Directors remuneration in accordance with relevant on Directors remuneration are free from material misstatement, legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report, including the of information in the accounts.
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Opinion and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept In our opinion: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the Companies Act 1985: and report on Directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, those parts of the report on Directors remuneration required by in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not received all the information and explanations we require for our In addition, we have reviewed, without performing an audit, the audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding pro forma comparative financial information which comprises the Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet, summarised We read the other information contained in the annual report and consolidated cash flow statement and related notes for the year consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any ended 31 December 2001 on pages 40 to 45 which have been apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
prepared to illustrate the results and state of affairs of the Group The other information comprises only the Directors report, the following the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses.
This unaudited part of the report on Directors remuneration, the Chairmans pro forma comparative financial information is the responsibility statement, the Chief Executives review, the review of operations, of, and has been approved by, the Directors.
In our opinion the pro the financial review and the corporate governance statement.
forma comparative financial information has been properly compiled on the basis set out in the notes to that information.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined  LLP Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Birmingham statements on internal control cover allrisks and controls, or to form 28 February 2003 an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
