GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF GREGGS PLC We have audited the accounts on pages 16 to 34.
We have also examined the amounts BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION disclosed relating to emoluments, share options and directors pension entitlements We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the which form part of the directors remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It also includes an with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS information in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 14 this includes responsibility for OPINION preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established Company and the Group as at 28 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of for the 52 weeks then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view KPMG Audit Plc and whether the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Chartered Accountants Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report Registered Auditor is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting Newcastle upon Tyne records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for 7 March 2003 our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 40 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
