SIPKO HUISMANS, AGED 61, Sales and Marketing Director Finance Director Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed Sales and Marketing Director in Appointed Finance Director of Imperial Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996.
He has spent his career in fast Tobacco Limited in 1989 and became Finance He joined Courtaulds in Southern Africa in moving consumer goods, specialising in Director of the Group on our demerger in 1961 and moved to the UK in 1968.
He international sales and marketing.
Previously, he was financial controller became a Director of Courtaulds in 1984, and Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in 1991 with Hanson PLC responsible for Imperial was responsible for the Chemical and as President International and was responsible Tobacco, Ever Ready and Allders.
Industrial business from 1986 until the for Reemtsmas successful international demerger of Courtaulds Textiles in 1990, growth throughout the 1990s.
SIMON DUFFY, AGED 52, when he became Managing Director.
He was held senior positions with Colgate-Palmolive, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the appointed Chief Executive from 1991 until his Martini Rossi, Braun AG, Bongrain and Audit Committee retirement in 1996.
He is a Director of Markenverband Joined the Board in 1996 as a Non-Executive German association of the FMCG industry Director and Chairman of the Audit and sits on the Governors Advisory Committee.
He is currently Chief Financial 7.
IAIN NAPIER, AGED 53, Committee for the Economic and Social Officer of Orange SA having previously been Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Development of Yunnan Province in the Remuneration Committee and a Member of Chief Executive of End2End Holdings Limited, Peoples Republic of China.
the Audit Committee World Online International B. V. and Group Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
Finance Director of THORN EMI plc.
He He is currently Group Chief Executive of became Finance Director of EMI Group plc on 9.
LUDGER STABY, AGED 67, Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main board the demerger of Thorn plc.
Previously Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief Executive Audit Committee Operations Director of United Distillers, he is a of Bass Leisure and then Chief Executive of Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
He Non-Executive Director of GWR Group plc.
Bass Brewers and Bass International joined Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Brewers.
Following the sale of the Bass beer 1983, where he served as Finance Director and business in 2000 he became Vice President Personnel Director before becoming Chief UK and Ireland for Interbrew SA until his Executive in 1989 until his retirement in 1998. resignation in August 2001.
A former Chief Executive of Tchibo Holding AG, he is currently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of B&L Immobilien AG, Frosta AG, Systematics AG and WMP EuroCom AG.
He is president of the German Group of the International Chamber of Commerce and a member of the ICC Executive Board, and a Board Member of the economic council of the Christian Democratic Union.
PIERRE JUNGELS, AGED 58, Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
He has held numerous senior international positions within the oil industry with Shell International and Petrofina SA.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in 1996 leading the business to substantial geographic and financial growth until his retirement in November 2001.
He is also the President of the Institute of Petroleum.
RICHARD HANNAFORD FCA, AGED 55, Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1973 and was appointed Company Secretary in 1988 and Company Secretary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC in 1996.
Prior to this, he held a number of management posts in finance and internal audit functions.
