33 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the and loss account, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of total Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost profits required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal and losses, the related notes, and the accounting policies set out control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance disclosures required by Part III of Schedule 7A to the Companies procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Act 1985 contained in the Board report on remuneration the Basis of audit opinion auditable part.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Board report on remuneration and the financial statements in and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the Board report on remuneration.
It also includes an assessment standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Board report on remuneration in accordance the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Board report on remuneration are free from material misstatement, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the Board report on the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the its profit and the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if ended: the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our the financial statements have been properly prepared in audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Board report on remuneration required by We read the other information contained in the annual report Part III of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been and consider the implications for our report if we become aware properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Contents, This is Inchcape, the Chairmans statement, the Chief  LLP Executives review, the Operational review, the Financial review, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Inchcape in the community, Environment, health and safety, Board London of Directors, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Board 3 March 2003 report on remuneration, the Five year record and Company details.
