Interserve Plc Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 37 We have audited the financial statements of Interserve Plc for our report if we become aware of any apparent for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the Consolidated profit and loss account, the Balance sheets, the financial statements.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
These financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the information in the part of the Directors remuneration auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
report that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the Companys members those matters we are required by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements to state to them in an Auditors' report and for no other and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part As described in the Directors responsibility statement, the of the Directors remuneration report described as having been Company's directors are responsible for the preparation of the audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused financial statements in accordance with applicable United by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of responsible for the preparation of the other information information in the financial statements and the part of the contained in the annual report including the Directors Directors' remuneration report described as having been remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial audited.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing Opinion standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the described as having been audited have been properly prepared year then ended: and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' report is not consistent the financial statements and part of the Directors with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept remuneration report described as having been audited have proper accounting records, if we have not received all the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Act 1985. information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Deloitte & Touche of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Chartered Accountants not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
12 March 2003 We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors' remuneration report and consider the implications
