INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AMEC plc We have audited the accounts on pages 51 to 75.
We have also audited BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information or for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other directors remuneration report.
As described on page 76, this includes irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services OPINION Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors company and the group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in of the group for the year then ended: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report, company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received on pages 48 to 50, to be audited have been properly prepared in all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the statement on page 41 reflects the companys Registered Auditor compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for Manchester our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not 6 March 2003 required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
