INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit Basis of audit opinion and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the related notes.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys directors responsibilities.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary in Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial Opinion statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the if we have not received all the information and explanations we state of the companys affairs at 28 July 2002 and of its profit and require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing cash flows for the year then ended and have been properly Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and  consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial London statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans 6 September 2002 statement and operating review, the finance review, the directors report, the remuneration report and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
