Kidde plc 2002 51 independent auditors report to the members of Kidde plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of total Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required shareholders funds and the related notes.
We have also audited to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover the disclosures required by part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the the Companys and Groups corporate governance procedures or its auditable part.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This opinion and adequately disclosed.
has been prepared for, and only for, the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept information and explanations which we considered necessary in order or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come that the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements information in the Financial Statements.
and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
OPINION We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report In our opinion: is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the all the information and explanations we require for our audit, affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: and transactions is not disclosed.
the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and with the Companies Act 1985: and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been Statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Business Review.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 4 March 2003
