Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of We read the directors report and the other information LogicaCMG plc contained in the annual report for the above period as described We have audited the financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for in the contents section including the unaudited part of the the six months ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom information in the part of the remuneration committee report auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit that is described as having been audited.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, the directors remuneration report described as having been in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the companys members those matters we are required to state to financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors remuneration report described as having been audited companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or financial statements in accordance with applicable United other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information for the preparation of the other information contained in the in the financial statements and the part of the directors annual report including the directors remuneration report.
Our remuneration report described as having been audited.
responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been Opinion audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial affairs of the company and the group as at 31 December 2002 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and of the loss of the group for the period then ended: and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, report described as having been audited have been properly in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Deloitte & Touche London explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
 LLP London Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the London Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 5 March 2003 the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
48 Independent auditors report LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002
