Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc We have audited the financial statements on pages We consider the implications for our report if we 18 to 56. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on pages 9 to 11, this includes We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing responsibility for preparing the financial statements in Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the independent auditors, are established in the United financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the the significant estimates and judgements made by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, our professions ethical guidance.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial adequately disclosed.
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors the information and explanations which we considered report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements have not received all the information and explanations we are free from material misstatement, whether caused by require for our audit, or if information specified by law or fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
of information in the financial statements.
We review whether the statement on pages 9 to 11 reects Opinion the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to as at 30 September 2002 and of the profit of the Group for consider whether the Boards statements on internal the year then ended and have been properly prepared in control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We read the other information contained in both the Registered Auditor Annual Report and the Annual Review, including the London corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
26 November 2002 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 17
