29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc for We read the directors report and the other information contained the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the consolidated in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, the section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of report and consider the implications for our report if we become total recognised gains and losses, the Company balance sheet and aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies the related notes 1 to 38.
These financial statements have been with the financial statements.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information specified by the Directors Remuneration BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Report Regulations 2002 to be audited which is set out in sections We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing 1 to 6 of the remuneration report.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Companys members those matters we are required to state to them judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as applied and adequately disclosed.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the remuneration report described as having been audited are free financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility statements and the part of the directors remuneration report is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors described as having been audited.
remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements OPINION and auditing standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 the part of the directors remuneration report described as having and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, report described as having been audited have been properly if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Deloitte & Touche remuneration and transactions with the Company and other Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors members of the Group is not disclosed.
London 27 February 2003 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002
