Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marshalls plc We have audited the Financial Statements on We read the other information contained in the pages 36 to 62.
We have also audited the Annual Report, including the Corporate information in the Directors Remuneration Governance statement and the unaudited part of Report that is described as having been audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial This report is made solely to the Companys Statements.
We consider the implications for our members, as a body, in accordance with Section report if we become aware of any apparent 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work misstatements or material inconsistencies with has been undertaken so that we might state to the Financial Statements.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Basis of audit opinion permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibility to anyone other than the Company Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and the Companys members as a body, for our Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the have formed.
amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Respective responsibilities of Directors includes an assessment of the significant and Auditors estimates and judgements made by the Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the in the preparation of the Financial Statements, Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration and of whether the accounting policies are Report.
As described on page 25, this includes appropriate to the Groups circumstances, responsibility for preparing the Financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to responsibilities, as Independent Auditors, are obtain all the information and explanations which established in the United Kingdom by statute, the we considered necessary in order to provide us Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Financial Services Authority, and by our assurance that the Financial Statements and the professions ethical guidance.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, We report to you our opinion as to whether the whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Financial Statements give a true and fair view and error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated whether the Financial Statements and the part of the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited information in the Financial Statements and the have been properly prepared in accordance with part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, be audited.
in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, Opinion if we have not received all the information and In our opinion: explanations we require for our audit, or if.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair information specified by law regarding Directors view of the state of affairs of the Company and remuneration and transactions with the Group is the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the not disclosed.
profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We review whether the statement on page 26. the Financial Statements, and the part of the reflects the Companys compliance with the seven Directors Remuneration Report to be audited, provisions of the Combined Code specified for have been properly prepared in accordance our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it with the Companies Act 1985. does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal KPMG Audit Plc control cover all risks and controls, or form an Chartered Accountants and opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Registered Auditor Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and Leeds control procedures.
7 March 2003 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 35
