McCarthy & Stone plc Statement of Directors Responsibility and Auditors Report Statement of Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true responsibility in respect and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the of the accounts Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Report of the Auditors To the members of McCarthy & Stone plc We have audited the Group's financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2002 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Directors' Report, Chairman's Statement, Chief Executives Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance Statement and Report on Directors Remuneration.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 August 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Southampton 5 November 2002 Page 32 McCarthy & Stone plc
