32 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Appliance of the Principles in the Combined Code B.
Directors Remuneration The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in The Level and Make-up of Remuneration Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice The Remuneration Committee, which consists of Sir Donald Spiers Committee as reported in the Statement of Compliance on page 33.
Further explanation of Chairman, Sir Alan Cox, Mr D A Robins and Mr M A Stacey, is responsible for how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with approving remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration Report on page 34. executive directors of the required quality.
The Committee meets as often as is required.
During 2002 the Committee commissioned an Executive A.
Directors Remuneration Review from Aon Compensation Consulting, the results of which The Board were taken into account when deciding upon salaries to be effective from The Board of Directors retains full and effective control over the Group and in 1 January 2003.
In addition, the Committee uses external salary surveys, such 2002 the Board met on nine occasions.
It has a schedule of matters specifically as that produced by the Monks Partnership, and takes into account pay and reserved to it for decision and has delegated authority to committees of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining annual salary directors on other specific matters.
All directors have access to the advice and increases for directors.
Annual pay reviews are held at a business level and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring reflect RPI increases and average pay settlements in the engineering sector.
that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations The review of basic salaries for executive directors would also take account of are complied with.
The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all these measures.
A significant portion of an individual directors remuneration is directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the performance related through a combination of cash bonus and share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee annually considers grants of share options, subject to the scheme rules, at the market value of the Companys shares at the Of the nine full Board meetings, one was missed by one director.
Otherwise time the option is granted.
An allocation of shares under the Companys Equity attendance was complete.
Participation Scheme may also be made annually subject to the Company being Chairman and Chief Executive placed twelfth or higher in a table of the total shareholder returns achieved The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
during the previous year by the Company and 23 comparator companies and subject to the Committee being satisfied that this result is a genuine reflection Senior Independent Director of the Companys performance during the year.
Sir Alan Cox has been nominated by the Board as the senior independent director.
It is the Companys policy that directors and senior executives who have received grants of share options or allocations of shares should retain an Board Balance investment in the Company, amounting to at least one years salary, once these For the period from 31 January 2002 when Mr D A Robins was appointed to options or allocations vest.
23 May when Sir Richard Needham resigned the Board consisted of five executive and five non executive directors.
Since 23 May 2002 the Board had The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to offer new executive directors five executive and four non executive directors.
Since 27 February 2003 when contracts requiring one years notice from the Company.
Sir Colin Terry was appointed the Board has had five executive and five non Procedure executive directors.
Four of the current non executive directors are considered The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on executive to be independent of management and free from any business or other remuneration and for deciding upon the remuneration packages of individual relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their directors.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Mr Stacey who was Chief Executive until 25 January be taken from external consultants as appropriate.
2001 is not considered to be independent.
Disclosure Supply of Information Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and details of each directors The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
At each Board meeting the Chief Executive presents a report on the activities of the Group and the C. Relations with Shareholders Finance Director reports on financial performance.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Appointments to the Board The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
The Nominations Committee, which consists of Mr M A Stacey Committee Effective communication with fund managers, institutional investors and Chairman, Sir Alan Cox, Sir Donald Spiers, Mr D A Robins and Mr T Twigger, analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief Executive and considers any new appointments to the Board but all directors are consulted Finance Director.
This encompasses such issues as performance, strategy and and the decision to appoint is taken by the Board as a whole.
Re-Election Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting All directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals with oneIt is the intention of the Board to distribute the Notice of the Annual General third retiring by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
In addition, all new Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General meeting.
Those attending the Annual General Meeting will be advised of the Meeting following their appointment.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate issues and there will be resolutions relating Non executive directors are appointed for periods of no more than two years to the report and accounts and to the remuneration report.
subject to re-election and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
The respective Chairmen of the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees will respond to relevant questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 33 D. Accountability and Audit Audit Committee and Auditors The Board has appointed an Audit Committee which consists of Sir Alan Cox Financial Reporting Committee Chairman, Sir Donald Spiers, Mr D A Robins and Mr M A Stacey This report and accounts contains an explanation of the directors responsibility and which meets at least twice per year.
The Audit Committee meets with the for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by the auditors concerning external auditors to discuss the scope and the results of the annual audit and their responsibilities.
The directors also report that the business is a going any other issues that either the non executive directors or the auditors wish to concern.
The Company places great importance on the independence of its auditors Internal Control and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
The Combined Code requires the Board to be responsible for and to maintain a The Audit Committee also reviews the internal control environment of the sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Group and receives reports from Internal Audit as described above.
Companys assets and to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees to be paid to the external Companys system of internal controls.
The system is designed to manage rather auditors in respect of their services as auditors and reviews any other fees paid than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only to them in respect of services for tax or other matters.
provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms full implementation of the guidance issued by Turnbull.
The Companys general policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: The process adopted by the Board for identifying, evaluating and managing the audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to undertake significant risks faced by the Company is as follows: those services which they are required to, and most suited to, perform eg certification in respect of borrowings.
The Board receives regular reports at each Board Meeting on the state of the business from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
taxation: the external auditors assist the Company to meet general tax compliance requirements as well as providing advice on acquisitions and tax 2.
The audit committee meets twice a year and reviews the effectiveness of the planning.
Should opportunities arise for them to advise on special projects, internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings it receives their suitability is assessed at the time, with the work being tendered where regular reports from the external auditors and the internal audit department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using a risk model.
This model produces a total risk score for each operating unit by grading them consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors for on 12 separate risk indicators.
These risk indicators are themselves weighted general consulting work.
This exercise produces a risk league table, which is used to Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code prioritise audit visits.
The process is continually updated from operating The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the results and reports and annually addressed by means of a risk questionnaire.
Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section I of the Combined On average, each operating unit currently receives an internal audit visit once Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority with every two years.
Each business sectors management letters and audit reports the following exceptions: are reviewed and recommendations implemented.
a B1.6 and Schedule A annual bonuses for executive directors are pensionable 3.
Annually a review of the risk environment is presented to the Board for their in order to be consistent with other senior employees.
It should be noted that, consideration and for any actions arising therefrom.
This review covers all unlike for uncapped senior employees, contributions are not made in respect of businesses, financial, operational and compliance risks and the mitigation for the value of other taxable benefits.
b B2.2 the Remuneration Committee consists of three independent non 4.
The Companys Operations Executive has a regular programme for reviewing executive directors and one non executive director, Mr M A Stacey, who is various types of risk identified in the businesses and a summary of the key not considered to be independent.
The Board believes it is important that risks is presented to the Board every six months.
Mr Stacey should be a member of the Committee in his capacity as Chairman 5.
On an annual basis, each business managing director provides written of the Company and because of the experience he has gained as a result of his confirmation that the business for which he is responsible has been in directorships of other companies.
compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in place and The Board has commenced a process to consider and take account of the the risks which remain uninsured.
recommendations and guidance contained in the Higgs review of non executive directors and in the Smith report on Audit Committees, both published in The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review and January 2003. up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
Going Concern The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 104% of operating approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that profit in 2002. the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This statement also constitutes part of the Financial Review on pages 22 and 23.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002
