Annual Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has applied the principles of corporate governance recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Board and committee structure The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies and objectives, and the management of the Groups resources.
It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Including the Chairman and Chief Executive, there are currently five Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are all regarded by the Board as being independent for Combined Code purposes.
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association, whereby one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates specific responsibilities to Committees.
Each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Stephen Box.
The Committee meets at least three times a year.
Its principal tasks are to review the Groups internal controls, review the scope of the external audit, consider issues raised by the external auditors, and review the half yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of management judgement and estimates.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Adrian Montague.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Adrian Montague.
The Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Executive Directors remuneration and terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this to the Board and other senior executives of the Group, and also approves the provision of policies for the incentivisation of employees including the share option schemes.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended by the Chief Executive except when his own remuneration is under consideration.
The Remuneration Report is shown on pages 18 to 24 and includes information on the Directors service contracts.
Internal control The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal control are defined by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules which incorporate a Code of Practice known as the Combined Code, which requires that Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
This requirement stipulates that the review shall cover all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial.
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was published in September 1999.
Michael Page International plc - 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Internal control continued The Board has assessed existing risk management and internal control processes during the year ended 31 December 2002 in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board believes it has the procedures in place such that the Group has fully complied for the financial year ended 31 December 2002.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal financial and operational controls which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control are as follows: Group organisation.
The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and financial performance.
There is also a defined policy on matters strictly reserved for the Board.
The Managing Director of each operating company is accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within that division.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Detailed monthly reports are produced showing comparisons of results against budget, forecast and the prior year, with performance monitoring and explanations provided for significant variances.
The Group reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
The Group prepares a full year reforecast on a quarterly basis showing, by individual businesses, the results to date and a reforecast against budget for the remaining period up to the end of the year.
There is an established Audit Committee whose activities are previously described.
Controls and procedures are documented in policies and procedures manuals.
Individual operations complete an annual Self-Certification Statement.
Each operational manager, in addition to the finance function for that operation, confirms the adequacy of their systems of internal control and their compliance with Group policies.
The Statement also requires the reporting of any significant control issues that have emerged so that areas of Group concern can be identified and experience can be shared.
Identification of major business risks is carried out at Group level in conjunction with operational management and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk.
Internal audit activities are performed by members of the head office finance function, who are independent of the operations, throughout the year.
Businesses are visited on a rotational basis and their controls are assessed in their effectiveness to mitigate specific risks.
In addition, there is a regular review of these risks and changes are made to the risk profile where necessary.
All internal audit activities are reported to the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Board reviewed internal audit arrangements and concluded that there is currently no need for a separate and distinct internal audit department.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that the processes have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
16 - Michael Page International plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Annual Report and Interim Report are sent to all shareholders.
The Group also has a website www.
co. uk with an investor section that contains Company announcements and other shareholder information.
The Group has an on-going programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and its major institutional shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and corporate governance are discussed.
The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Finance Directors Review on pages 2 to 8 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and position.
Institutional shareholders and sector analysts are invited to briefings by the Company at the time of announcing the Companys interim and full year results.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budget and forecasts for 2003 based on normal business planning and control procedures.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Directors consider that the Company complies with Section 1 of the Combined Code contained in the Listing Rules, now the responsibility of the Financial Services Authority formerly the responsibility of the London Stock Exchange.
The Group complied in full for the year ended 31 December 2002.
