corporate governance report The Group is committed to high standards of corporate BOARD COMMITTEES governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Responsibilities at Board level are divided among five principal shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs Board Committees, which operate within defined terms of of the Group.
Throughout the period under review, the Company reference.
These are complemented by an active internal audit has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the function.
Further details on internal control are provided in the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the section below.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
For the first three months of the period under review, the Executive Committee was responsible for the day-to-day running THE BOARD of the Groups operating companies within the clearly defined The Misys Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, four limits delegated by the Board.
The Committee comprised all the other executive Directors and five non-executive Directors including executive Directors and met monthly.
On 1 September 2001, as a the senior non-executive Director, Sir Dominic Cadbury.
Three further step in the development of the management structure of additional executive Directors are to be appointed on 18 July 2002. the Group, the functions and responsibilities of the Executive Their biographies appear on page 33.
The Board demonstrates a Committee were transferred to the Group Operating Board.
This range of business, financial and international experience, which is Board has responsibility for the development and implementation vital to the successful direction of a global company.
of Group strategy as well as day-to-day operational management.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the The Group Operating Board comprises the executive Directors, the Companys business and determines group strategy, reviews trading Chief Executives of the operating divisions, the Director of Business performance, ensures adequate funding and examines major Development and, since 1 June 2002, the Chief Technology Officer investments.
To enable them to do this, all Directors have full and and the Group Human Resources Director.
The Group Operating timely access to all relevant information and from time to time the Board is chaired by Kevin Lomax and meets monthly.
Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on The Audit Committee, chaired by Tony Alexander, consists of new opportunities for the Group or other matters of significance.
all the non-executive Directors and meets at least twice a year, The Board meets at least eight times a year, aiming to hold one with the Finance Director and the external auditors, and with the meeting each year in the US.
internal auditors invited to attend as appropriate.
The Committee The non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent as reviews and discusses the intended publication of results, the defined in the Combined Code, fulfil a vital role in corporate effectiveness and reliability of internal control, any changes to accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear on financial reporting requirements and matters arising from internal issues brought before the Board and Board committee meetings.
audit and the annual Group audit.
They bring considerable knowledge and experience from other The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups areas of business and public life and their views carry significant auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and therefore weight in the Boards decisions.
monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors to The Board is aware of the guidance contained in the Combined help ensure there are no conflicts of interest.
Code on situations where the offices of Chairman and Chief The Nomination Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury, Executive officer are combined.
In the case of Misys, the Board consists of all the non-executive Directors and meets as necessary, believes that there is a sufficient distribution of responsibilities at liaising closely with the Chairman.
It assesses the suitability of the top of the Company to ensure that effective power is not persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, unduly concentrated in the hands of one individual.
Although the nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
The Company has an executive Chairman, the Managing Director has Committee has a key role in planning for the succession of senior responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the Companys executives and performs regular assessments of the Directors and businesses, and the Board shares responsibility for the strategic the workings of the Board as a whole.
In addition, as described above, the Board has a high-quality and independent non-executive element, The Remuneration Committee, chaired by George Gray, consists led by Sir Dominic Cadbury as senior non-executive Director.
of all the non-executive Directors and meets when necessary, but usually not less than twice a year.
Executive Directors are invited A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate to attend the Committees meetings as the members consider circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect appropriate.
Details of the Committees main functions, and its of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the Group.
All remuneration policies for the Companys Directors and senior Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and executives, are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 38. services.
The Board provides the Directors with appropriate training to fulfil their role on the Board.
The General Purposes Committee transacts the routine business of the Board.
The Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets when necessary and reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis.
All the executive Directors, together with the Company Secretary, are members of the Committee, with a minimum of two members required to attend.
36 Misys Annual Report 2002 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS OPERATING UNIT CONTROLS The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining regular Business unit performance and internal control is monitored by communications with its investors.
Executive members of the Board regular Board and management meetings, attended by Misys hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, executive and Divisional Directors.
Financial controls and including presentations following the interim and final results procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is announcements.
In addition, business and market briefings are circulated to all business units.
Written confirmation of compliance held throughout the year to ensure that the analysts and investing with internal financial control policies is obtained from the finance community receive a broader view of the Groups operations and directors and general managers of the operating units.
In addition, the issues faced by the business.
compliance with the Groups policies and procedures is monitored by means of regular visits to operating units by the Groups The principal communication with private investors is through the financial management.
com, the annual report and financial statements, the interim report and the AGM.
All the INVESTMENT APPRAISAL Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders Clear guidelines define the levels of authority and review with the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board.
procedures for major development projects, contractual and other The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual commitments of a revenue nature, capital expenditure and due shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The financial and other information, including presentations to analysts and investors in video, audio and text formats, is made FINANCIAL REPORTING available on the Companys website.
Further details are contained A comprehensive budgeting process takes place annually in the Investor Information section on the inside back cover.
throughout the Group culminating in Group and business profit, cash flow and investment budgets being formally approved by the AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE Board.
Actual results and cash flows, compared with budget, are The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors reported on a monthly basis and these, together with regular  and concluded that there are sufficient updated forecasts, are reviewed by the Board.
The Group places a controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of high emphasis on cash generation which is monitored by way of independence.
weekly and monthly cash reporting throughout the Group.
In addition, the Group has identified a number of other key areas INTERNAL CONTROL which are subject to regular reporting to the Board: these include The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system reports on taxation and treasury matters and legal issues, the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system policies in respect of which are themselves reviewed, at least of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate annually, by the appropriate Committee of the Board.
the risks to which the Group is exposed and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material INTERNAL AUDIT misstatement or loss.
The following describes the main features The internal audit function assesses at operating unit level, key of the Groups system of internal control.
financial controls and compliance with the Groups policies and procedures through a structured review process.
The Group RISK MANAGEMENT functions, including Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of There is an ongoing process for identifying and managing the internal audits work plan.
The work plan and key findings of the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process involves the internal audit process are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
evaluation, at both Group and business unit level, of the principal The above process has been in place during the financial year risks to which the Company and its subsidiaries are exposed.
ended 31 May 2002 and up to the date of the approval of the Risks are evaluated according to the impact of a risk failure and Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have reviewed the the likelihood of it occuring.
For each of the principal risks, effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
confirmation is required that systems are in place which enable them to be monitored and controlled.
The systems are subject to separate review and, for certain risks, audit.
In addition, business On behalf of the Board units are required to report on the factors that may, or will, mitigate the impact of any adverse consequences arising from Paul Waters these risks.
The Group-wide and business unit risks are reviewed Company Secretary by the Group Operating Board and reported to the Board.
