CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Relations with Shareholders Identification of Risk and Financial Provisions of the Combined Code.
The Chairman and designated Controls The Board confirms that throughout Executive Directors are the The Group continually assesses the the year ended 31 March 2002, the Companys principal spokesmen with risks facing the business through its Company has complied with the investors, fund managers, the press framework of the Board, Executive provisions set out in Section 1 of the and other interested parties.
Combined Code on Corporate The Company reports formally to Clear responsibilities have been Governance issued by the UK Listing Shareholders twice a year when its allocated for key risk areas such as Authority.
With the exception of Code half-year and full-year results are insurance, treasury, capital Provision A.
3.1 which requires Nonannounced and reports are issued to expenditure and data processing Executive Directors to comprise not Shareholders.
Other risks fall within the less than one third of the Board.
available on the Groups website.
scope of the Audit, Remuneration, The following describes how MITIE The Annual General Meeting is Nomination and Health & Safety has applied all the principles of Good attended by all of the Directors and Committees as appropriate.
The full Governance set out in the Combined private investors are encouraged to Board meets at least six times a year Code:- participate in the meeting.
and the Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Directors Accountability and Audit agreed procedures, rules and At 31 March 2002, the members of the A statement of the Directors regulations are observed.
Board comprised seven Executive responsibilities in respect of the Each operating company regularly Directors and three independent preparation of the financial reviews their risk profile using a Non-Executive Directors.
A further statements appears in the Report of common strategic risk framework.
Non-Executive Director was the Directors on page 9.
Early warning mechanisms together appointed on 12 July 2002.
The The Audit Committee consists of with the system for reducing the risks Executive Directors consist of the three Non-Executive Directors and are documented.
The operating Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance meets at least twice a year.
Due to companies refine each framework in Director and four other Directors.
the increasing size and complexity of the light of changing aspects of their There is a clear division of the MITIE Group, it was decided that business.
responsibility between the Chairman an Internal Audit department be set and Chief Executive, each of which up to strengthen internal controls.
The Information Systems has clearly defined roles.
Details of all newly formed Internal Audit There is a comprehensive system of Directors are listed on page 10. department reports regularly to this financial reporting to the Board, The Board meets regularly Committee as well as to the Board of based on an annual budget throughout the year and is responsible Directors.
prepared in line with the business for overall strategy and performance, plan, half-yearly forecasts and acquisitions, capital expenditure and Internal Financial Control monthly reporting of financial and the safeguard of the assets of the The Directors are responsible for operating results.
The actual results of the Group establishing the Groups system of performance indicators are and operating companies are internal financial control.
Such a continuously monitored by the reported to all members of the Board system can provide reasonable but Executive Directors and company each month.
At every Board meeting not absolute assurance against officers.
the Directors receive presentations material mis-statement or loss.
The four and hold more detailed discussions main components can be Monitoring Key Procedures with senior management of the summarised:- The effectiveness of internal financial operating subsidiaries.
controls is monitored by the Audit All Directors are appointed by the Control Environment Committee which receives regular Board as a whole and, once formally MITIE is committed to competence reports from the company officers appointed, each Director submits and integrity of management and and the Executive Chairman and himself for re-election at least every staff at all levels, through its mission yearly reports from the external three years.
None of the Executive statement, comprehensive Auditors.
Formal procedures are in Directors have service contracts recruitment, training procedures and place for the correction of greater than 12 months.
It has weaknesses identified in these reports.
developed an organisational structure Directors Remuneration within which the business can be At the end of each year the Board The Remuneration Committee consists planned, controlled and monitored.
reviews the effectiveness of the of three Non-Executive Directors and This structure includes a Board Groups system of Internal Control for meets annually to determine the comprising Executive and Nonthe accounting year.
The Directors remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors as well as were not aware of any control Executive Directors.
In framing its company officers.
It aims to provide breakdowns which resulted in a remuneration policy, the Committee appropriate delegation of authority material loss.
has given full consideration to the with accountability, having regard to provisions of Section 1B of and levels of risk and a professional Schedule A to the Code.
The approach to financial accounting.
Remuneration Report prepared by The operating companies the Board is set out on pages 11 to 13.
Managing Directors regularly review In preparing the Report, the Board has their responsibilities and compliance followed the provisions of Schedule B with the Groups policies and to the Code.
