N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 29 Corporate governance statement The board of directors continues to recognise the importance of good corporate governance, now formalised by the Combined Code of the Committee on Corporate Governance the Code which was published in June 1998.
This statement, together with the directors report on remuneration set out on pages 31 to 35, explains how the group has applied the principles contained in section 1 of the Code.
Directors The board of directors has a number of matters reserved for its approval, including those relating to major capital expenditure, corporate plans and budgets, banking facilities, acquisitions and disposals.
It meets regularly, at least 6 times a year, and receives appropriate and timely information including financial results to date, key trading issues and progress with significant projects in advance of meetings, in order for it to be able to properly consider these and other matters brought before it.
There are currently eight directors, of whom six are non-executive.
Sir David Alliance CBE is Chairman and Jim Martin is Chief Executive.
Lawrence Ziman is senior non-executive director, to whom concerns can be conveyed by shareholders, other directors or interested third parties.
The board considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent.
The board operates three principal committees:- audit - chaired by Lawrence Ziman and also comprising Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and Robert Youngjohns Sir David Alliance CBE and Nigel Alliance OBE having stood down from the committee during the year.
The committee meets with both internal and external auditors on a regular basis and receives reports on matters arising from their audits and on actions taken in response to their findings.
It also reviews the half year and full year results before their approval by the board, as well as the effectiveness of the groups internal control systems for which the directors are responsible, the remit, authority, resources and scope of the internal audit function and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the scope and cost effectiveness of their audit.
remuneration - chaired by Robert Youngjohns and also comprising Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and Lawrence Ziman Sir David Alliance CBE and Nigel Alliance OBE having stood down from the committee during the year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the board on matters of policy relating to the remuneration of executive directors of the company and other senior executives within the group, as well as determining the elements of the remuneration packages of individual group executive directors.
nomination - chaired by Ivan Fallon, also comprising Sir David Alliance CBE and Jim Martin, this committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on all new board appointments.
All directors have to submit themselves for reappointment at least once every three years.
Shareholders Regular meetings are held with institutional shareholders, immediately after the announcement of interim and full year results and also at other times of the year as appropriate.
At least 20 working days notice of the annual general meeting is now given, and it is anticipated that the chairmen of the board and of its principal committees described above will be available to answer relevant shareholders questions.
The number of proxy votes cast for each resolution will be indicated at the meeting.
N Brown Group plc 29 N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 30 Corporate governance statement Internal control The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control, to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute assurance.
The board continues to operate a formal risk management process throughout the group.
A cyclical program of assessments of operational, financial and other business risks has been implemented at each principal operating subsidiary of the group each cycle comprising at least two reviews annually, which takes into account the internal controls that exist to mitigate the impact of those risks.
Any significant residual risks are then evaluated and action plans to further reduce their impact are initiated and monitored where necessary.
A risk management committee oversees the above process, reports progress to the board regularly and draws any appropriate matters to its attention.
This committee is also responsible for ensuring that the principles of risk management and effective internal control are fully embedded within the organisation, a process which has continued to operate during the year.
The board of directors through the audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review.
As well as receiving regular reports from the risk management committee described above, the board through the audit committee discusses with the external auditors the results of their work and any resulting internal control issues, and also reviews the work carried out by the internal audit department, including monitoring the implementation of actions arising from previous audits.
The internal audit function is independent of management and the head of the function has direct access to the chief executive and the chairman of the audit committee.
Internal audit plans are discussed and agreed annually between the head of internal audit and the audit committee.
Appropriate internal financial controls are operated throughout the group, some of which have already been referred to in this statement.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a comprehensive financial reporting system which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
Compliance with the code With the exception of the groups policy on the inclusion of annual bonuses in the definition of a pensionable salary for executive directors of the company see remuneration report, page 33, the group has complied with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the financial year.
