Corporate governance professional advice where considered necessary.
For every Board The Board supports the highest standards of corporate meeting, reports from the Executive Directors are circulated governance and ethical practices within its businesses and notes to all Board members, including in-depth financial information.
both the report of Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness of non executive directors and the accompanying report by Senior management give presentations to the Board on Sir Robert Smith on audit committee reform.
The Company significant matters during the year as appropriate.
The Board currently complies with many of the recommendations in these meets at least ten times a year and met on 13 occasions during reports.
The Board will be monitoring the outcome of the the period under review.
consultation process on these reports and resulting amendments to the Combined Code and will review its corporate governance The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day practices in accordance with any timescales set down.
management of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the Code The Company purchases liability insurance to cover the of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
In the opinion of the Directors the Group has Committees of the Board complied with the Code throughout the year.
The Board has established a number of committees with defined terms of reference and receives reports of their proceedings.
Application of principles of good governance The principal committees are the Remuneration Committee, The Board of Directors the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led Safety Committee.
and controlled by an effective board.
For the financial period under review the membership The Board presently consists of four Executive and five Non of these committees comprised the Non Executive Directors: Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Davies, Barry Gibson, Sue Lyons, David Ross and are held separately.
Tim Stevenson is the Senior Independent Tim Stevenson.
Following a review of the committee structure Director.
The Board considers all the Non Executive Directors, in the early part of 2003, the Board approved membership of the including the Chairman, Michael Davies, to be independent.
committees as follows: Remuneration Committee Barry Michael Davies has been Chairman since 1992, serving alongside Gibson Chairman, Sue Lyons, Tim Stevenson: Nomination a number of Chief Executives and Executive Directors during Committee David Ross Chairman, Sue Lyons, Michael that time.
The Board considers that the Chairman remains Davies: Audit Committee Tim Stevenson Chairman, David independent of management and free from any business or other Ross, Barry Gibson: Safety Committee Sue Lyons Chairman, relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise Michael Davies, Barry Gibson, David Ross, Tim Stevenson.
All the Non Executive Directors bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and Remuneration Committee experience to Board deliberations.
Non Executive Directors do not The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes the contract terms, remuneration, pensions and other benefits and their service is non-pensionable.
Short biographies of the of the Executive Directors and the remuneration of the Directors are to be found on pages 40 and 41.
It reviews the Groups policies in relation to the remuneration of other senior managers, including performanceAll new appointments to the Board are made by the Board related incentive schemes and executive share option schemes.
on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
On The committee met four times for the period under review.
The appointment Directors are offered an appropriate training course report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 46 to 49. and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant Nomination Committee to their role.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of The Nomination Committees responsibilities include reviewing Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the the Boards structure, size and composition, succession planning Annual General Meeting following their appointment and and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to fill thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
External advisers are appointed when recruiting Board members: they use as a basis for their search a description There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment decision including the approval of Group strategy and policies, proposed by the Nomination Committee.
major business acquisitions or disposals, major capital projects, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other than Safety Committee in the normal course of business.
The Company Secretary is The Safety Committee reviews the Groups safety practices, responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed procedures and safety record and meets quarterly during the year.
and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent 44 National Express Group PLC covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk management Audit Committee controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed to The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the half year manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve and full year results, the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts.
It reviews the accounting policies and procedures their business objectives.
of the Group, its internal control systems and its compliance with statutory requirements, and considers any matters raised by the All subsidiaries are required formally to identify and assess the external or internal auditors.
The Committee is responsible for key risks they face, reported at half-yearly intervals.
Each risk is maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external assessed based on its likely impact on shareholders investments auditors.
The Committee met three times during the period and the Companys assets and its probability of occurrence.
adequacy of risk mitigation activities is then assessed and rated.
Accountability and audit Based on this and the risk analysis performed, local management The Company has established procedures to ensure that the provided an overall conclusion on whether appropriate controls Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of were in place and operating effectively, and confirmed that action internal control, including financial, operational, compliance was taken to eliminate any weaknesses identified during the period.
and risk management controls as required by the internal control provisions of the Combined Code.
This process continues to evolve along with the business to provide stakeholders with the best assurance that the Group The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, is aware and managing the key risks highlighted in the sixevaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This system was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, and is reviewed regularly The internal control system is monitored and supported by by the Board of Directors.
Such a system is designed to manage, an outsourced internal audit function which reports to rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial Groups business objectives and can therefore provide only and operational controls and reviews the extent to which its reasonable and not absolute assurance against material recommendations have been implemented.
The Audit Committee, misstatement or loss.
The procedures in place accord with the in addition to its other responsibilities, reviews a summary of the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by reports of the internal audit function on the internal controls the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate accounting affairs and control systems.
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear and Auditors are set out on pages 50 and 51. operating processes.
Relations with shareholders In particular, there are clear procedures for: The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and fund managers through a variety of meetings financial reporting, within comprehensive financial planning and presentations throughout the year.
During the year, the and accounting frameworks: Board commissioned an independent review to ascertain the capital investment, with detailed appraisal and authorisation: views of the Companys major investors on its financial and performance and management.
The resulting report has been health and safety, to review and address issues.
considered by the Directors and key comments taken on board.
The Board is responsible for, and has reviewed the effectiveness The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for all of, the Groups system of internal control in operation during shareholders to question the Chairman and Directors on a the year covered by this report.
The systems are designed to variety of topics, and information is provided at the Annual safeguard both shareholders investments and the assets of General Meeting on different aspects of the Groups activities.
This year its review comprised a number of specific During the year, written responses are given to correspondence internal control audits of many of the Groups operating received from shareholders and all shareholders receive copies companies by regular reports from the management of risks of the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts.
applicable to their areas of business.
In order to assist the Board in this process each division and business produces an Internal Control Criteria document and Key Risk Matrix which are cascaded through management levels and the Audit Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is reviewed on a six-monthly basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks reported.
The review National Express Group PLC 45
