Corporate Governance The Company complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 the Code except where indicated in this statement.
The manner in which the Group applies the principles of good governance contained in the Code is described in the appropriate parts of this annual report.
Thus the application by the Company of the Codes principles to remuneration matters at pages 31 and 37 should be read in conjunction with the statement below.
During the year, the Company has maintained a Board of directors which leads and controls the Company by holding at least ten meetings a year at which its current performance is examined and directions are given to operating executives.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other ad hoc matters of importance to the Company ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make an informed judgement.
In addition, the Board holds regular meetings to discuss and devise the Companys mediumand long-term strategic focus and holds additional meetings as and when necessary to discuss other issues, such as potential acquisitions.
In accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Association and with the Code, each director is subject to re-election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference for the various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
The Schedule makes it clear that all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and establishes a procedure for all directors to take independent advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
During the year, the Board was led by Antony Beevor, the Companys non-executive Chairman, who was appointed on 1st January 2002.
The Board recognises that, as he formerly held the position as the head of the Corporate Finance division of Socit Gnrale, the Groups former financial advisor, Mr Beevor does not meet all of the criteria of independence laid down in the corporate governance guidelines of some major institutional investors.
However, after careful consideration, it has concluded that Mr Beevor is independent for the purposes of the Code, since his relationship with the Companys former financial advisor does not interfere in any way with his ability to exercise independent, experienced and informed judgement as the non-executive Chairman of the Company.
The day-to-day running of the Companys business is delegated to an executive team led by Justin Jewitt, the Group Chief Executive and which includes David Lyon, Group Finance Director, Stephen Booty, Managing Director of the Companys Healthcare Personnel Division, who was appointed as a director on 19th June 2002 and Stephen Page, Managing Director of the Companys Healthcare Services Division.
During the year, Robert Burns, who was previously the Managing Director of the Healthcall Group and who joined the executive team on its acquisition also served as a director and member of the executive team until his resignation on 31st October 2002.
Dr William Holmes also served as an executive director, responsible for the Groups Clinical Governance.
Other senior managers, including the Group Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Chief Information officer and Director of Human Resources, form part of the executive team.
During the year, four further non-executive directors with extensive business, finance, health and social care backgrounds provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
Robert Nicholls, CBE is the Companys independent senior nonexecutive director and also chairs the Boards Remuneration Committee.
The Board actively encourages all directors to deepen their knowledge of their role and responsibilities and, during the year, all newly appointed Board members received the opportunity to receive formal training on courses specically designed to help them to do so.
In addition, all of the non-executive directors spent a number of days meeting members of the Companys executive team and most visited several of the Groups operating divisions.
Formal training is available to all members of the Board, if they deem it necessary or desirable and some members of the Board attended formal training courses relating to their position as directors during the year.
The Board operates a number of committees, consisting wholly or mainly of non-executive directors to which it has delegated certain specic responsibilities and each of which have formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors, was during the year chaired by Antony Beevor.
Its composition is not xed but comprises those directors who, in the Boards opinion, are best qualied to judge the suitability of candidates for the particular position to be lled depending, primarily on whether the position to be lled is an executive or non-executive post.
However, the Committee always comprises a majority of independent nonexecutive directors, including the Chairman of the Company and in arriving at its recommendations, it draws on the advice of the Groups Director of Human Resources and such professional advisors as it considers necessary.
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Howell, who is a chartered accountant, Chief Financial officer and an executive director of lastminute.
It comprises only non-executive directors and meets regularly to review the preliminary and interim results before they are presented to the Board, to receive reports from the Companys internal and external auditors and to make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies.
Its primary duties include the monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance with and the effectiveness of the Companys accounting and internal control systems.
The Committees duties also include monitoring the scope and results of the Companys annual audit and the independence and objectivity of its auditors.
38 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The Company has outsourced its internal audit function to a leading rm of chartered accountants, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee on projects undertaken in accordance with the audit plan agreed with the Committee at the beginning of every financial year.
Copies of all reports issued by the internal auditors are circulated to all members of the Audit Committee as they are published.
During the year, only independent non-executive directors served on the Remuneration Committee, which determines the Groups overall remuneration strategy and the remuneration packages of the executive directors and other senior executives, after having consulted with the Chief Executive and having received professional advice from remuneration consultants and the Groups Director of Human Resources.
The Committee is also responsible for approving the grant and exercise of executive share-based incentive arrangements.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees t, and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain executive directors of the necessary quality.
During the year, the Committee was chaired by Robert Nicholls, CBE.
The remuneration of non-executive directors, including the Chairman, is a matter for the Companys Board and the Committees terms of reference make it clear that the framework for the remuneration of the Companys senior executives must be agreed by the Board as a whole.
Short biographies of each of the directors, including their membership of the Boards committees outlined above, may be found on pages 26 and 27.
The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the senior non-executive director, who is available to discuss any concerns which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
They also have access to the Chairman of the Company if they so require.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the AGM and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
Going Concern The directors confirm that, after reviewing the financial position and cash ows of the Group, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal Controls As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to internal controls, having implemented the procedures necessary to comply with the guidance issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee Report and to report in line with that guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 1999, the directors adopted a revised comprehensive process for managing, evaluating and reporting on significant risks faced by the Group.
The revised and further rened and extended process has been in place for the whole of 2002 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
The key elements of the system operated by the Group to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks include the following: The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational, clinical and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses, whereby each of the risks identied is reviewed in detail by the executive directors on a quarterly basis and updated monthly as necessary.
These reports form the basis of risk registers that are provided to the Audit Committee.
Senior management team review meetings are held on at least a monthly basis at which the Groups business managers and executive team members report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
The formal process for identifying discipline-specic risks across the Groups operations encompasses financial, IT, human resources, legal, property and clinical risks.
A mechanism also exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any new business acquired or begun by the Company immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of 2002.
At each regular meeting, the Audit Committee of the Board reviews a register compiled by the managing director of each of the Groups businesses and by each member of the Groups senior management team, summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
39 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Corporate Governance continued During the year, the Board has also adopted new policies for managing the business risks it has identied as having the potential to impact signicantly on the Groups performance.
For example, in 2002, it adopted a comprehensively revised policy on the clinical standards observed across the Groups businesses.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the managing directors of each of the Groups businesses, including the Groups corporate resource, are required to complete and sign a register of the key financial and operational risks facing the business for which they are responsible and to confirm that they have complied throughout the year with the Companys policies and procedures on risk management.
From these registers, a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group is compiled and signed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Company Secretary, who are also required to confirm their compliance with such procedures and policies.
This report and the annual compliance statements of each of the managing directors, endorsed by the Divisional managing directors, are reviewed by the Board before the Annual Report & Accounts are approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the senior management team and internal and external auditors, on any issues identied as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers significant to the Board for its consideration.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
40 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
