Clinical Governance Clinical Governance is the process Nestor Healthcare Group Clinical Governance Structure fig.
1 whereby a healthcare provider can Board ensure and demonstrate that the services Executive it provides are safe and meet externally accepted standards by ensuring that Group Medical Director Clinical Advisory Board the clinicians it employs and with whom it works are suitably qualied and Clinical Risk Management Group supervised and perform to an appropriate standard.
The concept of clinical Clinical Clinical Clinical Clinical governance was introduced into NHS Management Management Management Management Project advice Forum Forum Forum Forum practice over the last five years or so but applies equally to any organisation which Business Business provides clinical services.
Activity Activity Internal External Nestor has been very active in the last year in developing and delivering systems of clinical governance which the Clinical Management Forum or To the right-hand side of gure 1 is our meet these objectives, thereby protecting CMF meets regularly to consider the external advisory group, the Clinical shareholder value.
Clinical governance clinical issues which face the business and Advisory Board.
This meets four times is important not only as part of the to ensure that it stays abreast of changes yearly, and is chaired by Professor Sir provision of our own services and in professional standards and regulation.
Its purpose is to receive overall governance structure, but because Each CMF produces a clinical risk register reports from the Group Medical Director our customers will expect us to have which is updated quarterly, and which and to consider issues and thinking in the appropriate systems, and to demonstrate confirms to each Managing Director that wider clinical community which is of that we are making use of them.
clinical risks have been identied and importance to the Group.
Each of these CMFs reports fortunate to have the guidance of The Groups clinical governance structure to the Groups Clinical Risk Management experienced clinicians and lay members is shown diagrammatically in gure 1.
Group, whose function is to take a who make a valuable contribution to our On the left of the chart are the internal Group-wide view of clinical issues to work.
As I write, the Clinical Advisory structures.
In each operating business, ensure issues and risks are identied Board is to review our condential reporting a committee of clinicians and managers and that best practice is shared.
Nestor has been actively developing systems to meet Government objectives on clinical governance, whereby services are delivered safely by suitably qualied people to an appropriate standard.
21 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Clinical Review continued An important element of the Groups by the Clinical Risk Management Group.
rm commitment to quality services clinical governance activities is to ensure Group-wide procedures for collecting and quality assurance within them.
We that complaints are properly recorded, information in relation to serious work in a time when greater regulation, complaints, based upon the Department statutory supervision and dened Complaints fig.
2 of Health document An Organisation professional responsibilities are expected with a Memory DoH 2000 ensure that to provide greater patient safety and are Dealing with the individual proper assessment of these incidents expected from us.
Nestor Healthcare Group issue takes place and weaknesses in structures is well placed to rise to these challenges.
and services are identied and changed.
Providing Dealing with Dr William Holmes management the outside We have dened a Group standard for Group Medical Director information world complaints which categorises them 3rd March 2003 according to the severity of clinical risk.
Figure 2 We have also developed a series of key demonstrates the three areas relevant performance indicators against which to handling complaints: dealing with the performance of the businesses in individual episode of dissatisfaction, managing clinical governance of their learning from mistakes and demonstrating business is measured.
These indicators are to our peers and customers that our reported monthly to the Group Medical systems are robust and effective.
The Director and hence to the Main Board.
latter is particularly important as new regulatory bodies such as the National An organisation such as Nestor Patients Safety Agency and the National Healthcare Group with its many millions Clinical Assessment Authority will require of patient contacts and tens of thousands us to consider patient safety and clinical of hours of care provided daily which is performance and individual customers stretching the envelope of providing will expect us to comply.
clinical services, must expect its share of issues, problems and complaints.
We are Across the Group, all complaints are promoting a blame-free culture where logged and categorised.
All serious issues are reported and addressed in complaints are reviewed promptly by the an open and constructive way.
This Group Medical Director, and subsequently is no short task, but rather part of our Nestor promotes a blamefree culture where issues are reported and addressed in an open and constructive way.
This is part of our rm commitment to quality services and quality assurance within them.
The Nestor Healthcare Clinical Advisory Board 22 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
