12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committees Remuneration Committee The Board meets monthly and has adopted The Corporate Governance Committees The terms of reference of the Remuneration a schedule of matters reserved for its comprise: Committee are to: decision.
These include responsibility for recommend to the Board a framework overall Group commercial strategy, annual Audit for rewarding senior management, budgets, acquisition and divestment Janet Walker chairman including executive directors, bearing in matters, major capital expenditure projects Nigel Colne mind the need to attract and retain and consideration of significant financing Ian Thomson individuals of the highest calibre and issues.
Board meetings are chaired by Nigel with the appropriate experience to make Colne, non-executive Chairman, who is Remuneration a significant contribution to the success specifically responsible for corporate Nigel Colne chairman of the Group: governance matters within the Group.
Ian Thomson ensure that the elements of the Janet Walker Three of the nine directors are nonremuneration package are competitive executives: all are independent.
They bring and help in underpinning the Nomination a wide range of experience to the Board performance-driven culture of David Page chairman and participate fully in all decisions on PizzaExpress with a significant proportion Nigel Colne key issues facing the Group.
Biographical of reward being linked to the Janet Walker details of the directors are given on page 7. achievement of corporate objectives, The Company continues to search for and in particular those that increase further non-executive talent to complement shareholder value: Audit Committee the executive experience already on the The terms of reference of the Audit ensure that effective succession plans Board.
Committee are to assist all the directors in are in place to support the future needs All directors have access to the advice and discharging their individual and collective of the business, including expansion services of the Company Secretary and the legal responsibilities for ensuring that: opportunities, both in the UK and Board has established a procedure whereby internationally.
the Groups financial and accounting any director, needing independent systems provide accurate and up-to-date professional advice in the furtherance of Nomination Committee information on its current financial their duties, may obtain this advice at the The Nomination Committee is responsible position: expense of the Company.
for making recommendations to the Board the Groups published financial in respect of the appointment of executive Combined Code compliance statements represent a true and fair and non-executive directors, as well as the The directors consider that, throughout the reflection of this position: composition of Board committees.
accounting period, the Company complied the external audit is conducted in a with all the provisions of Section 1 of the thorough, efficient and effective manner.
Internal financial controls Combined Code, with the following The directors are responsible for ensuring exceptions: The Audit Committee reviews the level and that the Group maintains a system of internal in view of the size of the Board, the content of non-audit work carried out by the controls, including suitable monitoring directors do not consider it appropriate auditors.
In this regard, it is policy that such procedures.
Such systems can only provide to identify a senior independent director, work should only be done by the auditors if reasonable, and not absolute, assurance separate from the Chairman provision it is their formal responsibility or is closely against material misstatement or loss.
2.1.. related to the audit, or where it is clearly one of the non-executive directors on more efficient for them to do so.
In each There is an ongoing process for identifying, the Remuneration Committee, Matthew case, both the Company and the auditors evaluating and managing the key financial, Allen, who was previously an executive consider whether the scope of the work operating and compliance risks faced by the director, was not independent provision could compromise auditor independence, Group.
This accords with the Turnbull B.
2.2 : since the year end, Mr Allen has and if this is thought to be possible, the guidance issued in September 1999 and has resigned as a director.
work is not carried out by the auditors.
been in place throughout the year.
13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Group considers it is proactive in the Going concern management of its risk, and risk analysis and After making enquiries, the directors are management is embedded in all Group satisfied that the Company and the Group business plans.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The Groups key internal financial control future.
They therefore continue to adopt and monitoring procedures include: the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
a clear responsibilities on the part of management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production of accurate and timely financial management information: b the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: c monthly budgets and reporting of trading results and balance sheets, with regular review by management of variances from budgets: d reporting on compliance with internal controls and procedures by finance department staff: e two unannounced audits of each restaurant per year by an independent firm of retail audit specialists.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year.
The Group does not operate an internal audit department as such, the function being carried out to the satisfaction of the Board by an independent firm as outlined in e above.
Relations with shareholders The Company holds regular meetings with its principal institutional shareholders and all shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting, where private investors are encouraged to ask questions.
