Corporate governance report The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The non-executive directors are appointed for three years: governance and supports the principles of governance set re-appointment is not automatic, and each non-executive out in the Combined Code on best practice in corporate directors position is subject to review prior to the expiry governance appended to the Financial Services Authoritys of their term of office.
In accordance with the Companys UK Listing Rules.
This report contains the Companys articles of association one third of the Board are required to statement on how it has applied the principles set out in the retire by rotation each year provided that each director shall Combined Code, together with its statement of compliance retire at least once every three years.
Directors appointed with the code provisions.
These statements are made during the year are required to seek re-election at the first following a review which has been carried out in relation Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
There to the Boards practices.
The Companys auditors have is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent reviewed our compliance with those provisions of the professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if Combined Code specified for their review.
necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The removal of the Compliance with the Combined Code Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board is pleased to confirm that throughout the year it has applied the principles of good governance contained The Board normally meets eight times during the year.
It has in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it some of which are delegated to Board committees.
The membership With the exceptions as set out below the Company was in of the Board committees is provided on pages 24 and 25. compliance throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code: The Executive Board Following the organisational changes announced on The Chief Executive, Andrew Harrison, voluntarily agreed 14 January 2002, the Executive Board has replaced the to reduce his service contract to a one year rolling Management Board and comprises the Chief Executive, five agreement with effect from 1 January 2003.
Prior to this business Managing Directors, the Group Operations Director, he had a two year rolling agreement, dated 2 September the Group Finance Director and the Group Human Resources 1996, which the Board believed to be appropriate for the Director.
It is collectively responsible for the operational importance and complexity of his role provision B.
1.7. performance of the Company, developing strategy, leading management development and agreeing company wide Reference is made in the Remuneration Report on operational policies.
It meets on a regular basis, usually monthly.
pages 30 to 36 to the inclusion of fluctuating emoluments within the calculation of pensionable pay.
Any new directors The Audit Committee joining after 1 April 2000 will have their pensionable salary The Audit Committee currently comprises all the noncalculated on their basic salary only.
None of the existing executive directors and was chaired by Peter Long from directors are affected by these revised pension terms 29 November 2002 previously chaired by Peter Hickson until provision B.
The Audit Committee normally meets three times per year, and has an agenda linked to events The Board in the Companys financial calendar.
Other members of the There is a clear division of authority and responsibility at the Board have a right of attendance and other members of most senior level within the Company through the separation management may attend by invitation.
The committee is of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
In broad terms, established with written terms of reference, which include: the Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the Board and ensuring that all directors, both executive and reviewing and monitoring the Companys external financial non-executive, are consulted to enable them to play their reporting process: full part in the Companys activities.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company annual review of the external auditors performance and and the implementation of the policies and strategies adopted fees: and by the Board.
The Board recognises its responsibility to identify review of internal controls.
and determine price sensitive information and for ensuring that such information is disseminated in an appropriate manner.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is established under written terms The Board currently comprises the Chairman, a non-executive Deputy Chairman, five executive directors and three more of reference and comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the four non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Sir Trevor non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive directors are Chinn.
The committee meets at least once a year and at considered by the Board to be independent of management such other times as is required.
It keeps the balance of Board and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent membership under review and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors.
The senior independent director is Peter Long.
Brief biographical details of the current directors of the The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is operated under clearly Company are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The non-executive defined terms of reference, is comprised exclusively directors are from varied business and other backgrounds of independent non-executive directors and is chaired and all directors have the benefit of induction visits and briefings following their appointment to the Board.
The Company keeps by Peter Long.
From 1 May 2003, this committee will be chaired by John Poulter.
The committees role is described the directors informed about the Companys business and in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 36. regulatory matters by written briefings and presentations by senior management.
The non-executive directors experience The report includes a statement of the Boards policy on allows them to exercise independent judgement on the Board the remuneration of executive directors and details of the and their views carry substantial weight in Board decisions.
Further details are also set They contribute to the Companys overall strategy, business out in note 9 to the financial statements on page 49. planning, and policy formulation, in addition to monitoring its performance and its executive management.
28 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 Shareholder relations also conducted a self-appraisal exercise to monitor its The Company is committed to ongoing communications own effectiveness.
across its shareholder base, whether institutional investors, Audit independence private or employee shareholders.
The Companys website The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the www.
co. uk provides both corporate and customer objectivity of our auditors KPMG Audit Plc in their reporting information and is updated on a regular basis.
The chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are to shareholders.
available at Annual General Meetings to take any relevant The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders questions.
at the Annual General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, but beyond this, controls have been in place for some years The proxy votes cast at general meetings are made available to ensure the independence of the auditors.
to all shareholders, they are announced at the meeting and placed on the website.
The Company proposes a separate The Audit Committee meets three times a year and the resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not KPMG audit director and senior manager are present at bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
these meetings to ensure full communication.
Internal control The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually The directors are responsible for the systems of internal by the Audit Committee based on management feedback control throughout the Company and for reviewing their gathered by internal audit.
Feedback is also provided to effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage independent reviewers appointed by KPMG Audit Plc for rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business review on a periodic basis.
This activity forms part of KPMG objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, Audit Plcs own system of quality control.
The Audit assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Committee has regular meetings with the auditors, without executive management being present.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and The scope of the years audit is discussed in advance by the this has been in place during the year under review and up Audit Committee.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities to the date of approval of this report.
This process, in place within KPMG Audit Plc is included within the Audit both across the Group and the joint venture companies, is Committees annual review and is also required by their regularly reviewed by the Board in line with the guidance professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and issued by the Internal Control working party of the Institute has taken place.
The current audit director responsible for of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales issued in the engagement has held her role for six years and rotates September 1999 the Turnbull committee report and by off at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
reporting in accordance with that guidance.
There is also rotation within the audit teams.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness Assignments with KPMG Audit Plc and its associates are, of the system of internal control for the period include the and have been, subject to controls by management that following: have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
In summary the a control environment which includes an organisation procedures are: structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority in addition to documented controls and Audit related services: As auditors this is the main area procedures appropriate to the specific area: of work of KPMG Audit Plc and its associates.
It includes financial reporting procedures which allow the Board to formalities relating to shareholder circulars, regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
approve the annual budget, review monthly trading results, balance sheets and cash flows against plan, and receive Tax consulting: In cases where they are best suited we explanations from management on significant variances: use KPMG and its associates, but the Group also uses other tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work a risk assessment process in which interviews with the are evaluated competitively.
senior managers around the Group are used to confirm the significant strategic, business, operational, financial General and systems consulting: All significant consulting and compliance issues, the controls in place to manage projects are put out to competitive bids.
KPMG is only them and the resulting residual risks: allowed to tender when we, and they, are satisfied that the nature of the work presents no potential threat to the regular reporting to the Board on risk management independence of the audit team.
Of the consulting work and the internal control environment, and a number of that has taken place in the Group in recent years, KPMG functions, including Treasury, report to the Board twice a year through the Audit Committee: and and its associates has had only a small part.
Apart from audit fees, the Group Finance Director must formal self-certification statements prepared by the managing director and chief financial officer of each company which approve work carried out by KPMG Audit Plc and its associates anywhere in the Group in excess of a are reviewed by executive management and internal audit.
predetermined threshold and part of this review is to The Groups control systems and processes are subject determine that other potential providers of the services to risk focused internal audit which reports to the Chairman have been adequately considered.
Internal audit plans and reports are Taken together these procedures provide the Audit reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board together with external audit plans and management letters.
Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG Audit Plc in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
The scope of the work, authority and resources of internal audit have been reviewed, and the Audit Committee has RAC plc Annual Report 2002 29
