CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The policy of the board is to manage the affairs of the Company The Remuneration committee in accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code The Remuneration committee meets not less than twice a year of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
the Chairman, the executive directors, and other members of the Executive committee.
Details of the Remuneration committees Application of Principles of Good Governance deliberations during the year are contained in the remuneration report on pages 34 to 39.
Directors The directors believe that it is essential that the Company should The composition of each of these committees is given on page 22. be led and controlled by an effective board.
To this end, regular board meetings are held not less than seven meetings in a year The Executive committee and the board receives a steady flow of information to enable The Executive committee is not a committee of the board.
Its role it to discharge its duties.
There is a formal schedule of matters is to assist the Chief Executive in fulfilling his responsibilities for reserved for the boards decision, and all directors have access directing and promoting the profitable operation and development to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and to of the Group, consistent with the primary objective of creating long independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys term shareholder value.
It currently consists of the Chief Executive, expense.
Training programmes, including induction into the Finance Director, Company Secretary, Group Human Resources operations of the Company, are developed for newly appointed Director and the Managing Directors of divisions.
The current composition of the board is detailed on page 22.
Directors remuneration Details of directors remuneration, and the process for its determination, The board has established the following committees, each with are contained in the remuneration report.
a formal constitution, to facilitate its operations: Relations with shareholders The Audit committee The Company maintains regular dialogue with its institutional The Audit committee meets not less than three times a year and shareholders and city analysts.
Various presentations and visits are assists the board in reviewing the effectiveness of internal control made throughout the year, and regular meetings are held with systems.
The committee also reviews financial statements to be principal shareholders.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the published externally before their submission to the board, to ensure annual general meeting and private investors are encouraged to take they present a fair assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
advantage of the opportunity given to ask wide-ranging questions.
It also authorises any change in accounting policies.
The committee meets at least annually with the auditors without executive Accountability and audit management being present.
The means by which the board applies the principles of accountability and audit are set out overleaf.
The Audit committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The committee reviews the nature Compliance with Code provisions and amount of non-audit work undertaken by  The Company has throughout the year complied with the Code each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their independence.
provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code save as follows: It is the Groups policy to employ  on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their Code provision A.
2.1 expertise and experience within the Group are important, principally The board has carefully considered the proposal that a senior in the areas of transaction services, stock exchange transactions and independent director should be identied in the annual report and tax advice.
The Groups policy is, where appropriate, that work is put concluded that this would be inappropriate given that the Chairman out to competitive tender.
Details of this years fees are given in note of the Company and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration 2 on page 52. committees are already identified.
 are also subject to professional standards Risk management and internal control which are intended to safeguard the integrity of the auditing role.
The board maintained the procedures necessary to comply with In this regard, the Audit committee has received and reviewed the requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal control the written disclosures provided by  as as described in the September 1999 guidance Internal Control: required by the UK Statement of Auditing Standards No 610 revised Guidance for directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Report.
Communication of audit matters to those charged with governance In relation to Code provision D. 2.1, the board reports below on the and the US Independence Standards Board Standard No 1 procedures that have been applied in reviewing the effectiveness Independence Discussions with Audit Committees.
of the system of internal control.
The Finance committee The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, The Finance committee is an executive committee to which certain evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
specific authorities have been delegated by the board, principally The process has been in place during the year and up to the in respect of capital expenditure authorisation and financing of date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It is regularly the Group.
reviewed by the board and accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
The Nomination committee The Nomination committee proposes board appointments, both The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the executive and non-executive, for approval by the board.
Decisions Groups system of internal control, for setting policy on internal on board appointments are a matter for the whole board.
control and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
40 The Rank Group Plc The role of management is to implement board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Considerable importance is placed on maintaining a strong control environment.
In particular, there is a simple organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority: adherence to specified codes of conduct is required at all times, and the board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
A Group risk management policy has been produced and regular meetings of the Group Risk Management committee take place, chaired by the Finance Director.
The Group Risk Management committee directs and reviews risk management activities within the Group, so that the significant risks facing the Group can be reported to the Audit committee and the board.
The Group-wide risk assessment process includes a review that covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The report to the Audit committee also provides information on the management and control of significant risks and monitors compliance with the Group risk management policy.
Detailed control procedures exist throughout the operations of the Group and compliance is monitored by management, internal auditors and, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report, external auditors.
Gaming division has a compliance function that monitors day-to-day adherence to control procedures.
Additionally, the Group retained an internal audit function an element of which was outsourced to .
The Group terminated the outsourcing agreement with  at the end of 2002.
Internal audit activities are now coordinated and substantially resourced from within the Group.
The Audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2002.
This has included consideration of the Group-wide risk assessment and the results of a self-certification of internal control exercise throughout the Group.
The Audit committee has also considered reports from internal and external auditors.
The Audit committee has reported the results of its work to the board.
The board has considered these reports when undertaking its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Going concern After reviewing the Groups budget for 2003 and its medium term plans, the directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
