CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Remuneration Committee Combined Code Company Secretary and the Board acknowledges that in The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of certain circumstances individual Directors may wish to take J Martin Chairman corporate governance and has considered the requirements of the Combined Code adopted by the Stock Exchange.
independent professional advice in connection with their duties.
R B Jones The Company will meet the reasonable expenses incurred in R G Williams this regard.
B Duckworth The Directors confirm that, with the exception set out below, the Group has complied with Section 1 throughout the year The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the ended 30 June 2002. the members of which are as follows and each comprises entirely agreement of terms of employment, the granting of bonuses, of Non-Executive Directors.
share options or share incentive plans relating to the Directors of Under provision B.
1.6, the deferred element of the Redrow Long the Company as may be appropriate from time to time as well as Term Share Incentive Plan LTSIP, which was in operation Audit Committee the appointment or removal of any Company nominated trustee from July 1996 to June 2000, vests in the participants in under of any pension or retirement benefit scheme of the Company three years.
This was considered justified having regard to the total executive remuneration package during that time.
An R G Williams Chairman and its subsidiaries.
The Committee meets as required but at R B Jones least twice a year.
amendment was made to the Redrow LTSIP following the J Martin Annual General Meeting on 13 October 2000 such that options B Duckworth Under Resolution 2, the Remuneration Committee report will awarded to Directors in respect of years after June 2000 do not be put before Shareholders for adoption at the Annual General vest in the participants for a period of three years.
Details are set out in the Remuneration report on page 35.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the Meeting on 4 November 2002. appointment of and liaison with External Auditors, the review of annual and interim financial statements, the review of the Nomination Committee Under provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Company is statement on internal control and consideration of any major required to report on internal control.
The Companys report on findings of internal investigations.
R B Jones Chairman internal control can be found on page 34 within this Corporate governance statement.
R G Williams The Committee meets with the External Auditors four times a J Martin year to discuss the interim accounts and the Annual Report and B Duckworth Accounts as well as internal control including the work of Board and committees Internal Audit, risk assessment and other issues within the P L Pedley resigned as a member of the Nomination Committee The Board of Redrow plc comprises of six Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors comprise not Group.
on 26 February 2002. less than one third of the Board and all Non-Executive Directors  were appointed auditors in 1987 and The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include the are considered to be independent.
The Board is responsible to the current audit partner was appointed in 1999. identification and recommendation to the Board of suitable Shareholders for the management of the Company and for the The fees relating to non-audit services provided by Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and not less than ten times a year.
 are disclosed in Note 2 to the Accounts, summarised according to different types of work Environmental Committee undertaken and are less than 0.1m.
The main area of non-audit A formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board including work relates to advice provided to the Company in connection R B Jones Chairman authorisation of major land acquisitions and contracts, approval with the operation and valuation of the pension scheme.
The R G Williams of budgets and accounts and monitoring of business performance.
Strategy on interest rate and currency exposures is also reserved Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work J Martin undertaken and has concluded this level of fee does not affect B Duckworth for the Board.
the independence of the Audit.
Future appointments in respect of non-audit work will be approved by the Audit Committee.
R B Jones is the Non-Executive Chairman and P L Pedley is the Chief Executive.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is J Martin who was re-appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2002.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 33 The Environmental Committee oversees not only environmental Suppliers areas of risk on an on-going basis and consider whether the issues relating to Redrow plc but also community and ethical Clearly defined orders setting out the terms and internal controls identified in relation to those risks are issues.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved conditions of business with payments made in appropriate.
This procedure also takes place at Regional Board the Corporate Social Responsibility Charter adopted in March accordance with those terms and conditions.
The Audit Committee also 2002 which is summarised below and Developing a better Buying procedures including requirements regarding reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly meetings.
The key future which documents Redrows environmental strategy, ethical relationships with suppliers.
features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: community involvement and role in education.
Regular surveys of key suppliers regarding the Copies of this document are available on the Companys website relationship with each relevant business unit within the A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the at www.
significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes the systems and controls that are to be applied Corporate responsibility and business ethics Community and Environment across the whole Group.
The Manual is reviewed and In March 2002, the Board adopted a Corporate Social A policy of involvement in communities in areas of updated with amendments being signed off by an Responsibility Charter.
The Charter provides guidelines operation with a focus on promotion to children of Executive Director.
The Board of each trading entity is regarding the Groups relationships with employees, safety awareness.
required to formally confirm on an annual basis that customers, suppliers and shareholders as well as its involvement Adoption of an environmental strategy that is a core they have complied in all material respects with these in community and environmental issues.
The main features of part of Group objectives with a focus on use of procedures.
the Charter are as follows: brownfield land, waste management and energy efficiency.
Defined authorisation levels established over key areas Employees Support for the link between the corporate sector and such as land purchase and the placing of orders and Clear and fair terms of employment through a letter of the community via membership of Business in the contracts.
appointment and Staff Handbook with maximum Community.
standard hours of work and fixed holiday entitlements.
A formalised reporting structure which includes the All employees over the age of 18 are entitled to join the Shareholders setting of annual budgets with updated forecasts during pension scheme and private medical insurance is A policy of meetings with major Shareholders and an the year which are considered at both Regional and available to all monthly paid staff.
opportunity for all Shareholders to put questions to the Group Board level.
In addition, each trading entity has a A commitment to equal opportunities for and Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
monthly Board meeting at which all key aspects of the prevention of harassment of all staff with a clearly Clearly set out internal control procedures summarised business are discussed including comparison of actual defined grievance procedure.
in the Annual Report to provide reasonable assurance performance with budgets and updated forecasts.
All staff are appraised annually which includes the against misstatement or loss.
setting of future performance goals.
Opportunities are The Groups systems provide weekly updates on key provided through in-house training and external Internal control statistics in relation to sales and production.
In addition, courses for employees to develop their skills.
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying A Health & Safety policy relating to operations on the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their significant payments are prepared.
development sites and within offices communicated to effectiveness.
However, in reviewing the effectiveness of internal all employees endorsed by the Executive Directors and control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not On an annual basis, each trading entity is required to supported by a dedicated in-house Health & Safety absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
prepare a strategic plan which covers key aspects of the department that reports monthly directly to the Board.
operation and identifies medium term objectives and Key business activities including land acquisition, product areas of risk to the business.
Customers design, specification and procurement and information A reservation process that sets out the relationship with technology are controlled by the Executive Directors.
All In addition to the above, the Group has an Internal Audit the customer and the requirements placed on the activity is organised within a defined structure with formal function which has direct reporting to the Audit Committee.
lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a The annual work programme of Internal Audit is approved in Provision of a comprehensive customer care service post structured reporting framework.
advance by the Audit Committee and commented upon by the completion in addition to the NHBC or similarly External Auditors.
The Internal Audit function updates the recognised 10-year warranty.
The Board has reviewed its operations and has identified risk Audit Committee on its work at each meeting.
All reports are Post completion surveys of customers to identify issues areas which have been assessed for their potential impact and distributed to the Group Board as well as to the External and opinions in relation to the buying experience and internal controls in relation to those risks have been identified.
The Executive Directors through quarterly meetings review the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 34
