140350 pp12-23 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 12 Structure and Corporate Governance STRUCTURE to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed opportunity for the boards to Elsevier NV ordinary share pays dividends communicate with individual Corporate structure in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Reed Elsevier came into existence in with respect to dividend and capital Executive Officer, the Chairmen of the January 1993, when Reed Elsevier PLC rights.
board committees and other directors previously named Reed International are available to answer questions from P. L. C. and Reed Elsevier NV previously shareholders.
The interim and annual named Elsevier NV contributed their CORPORATE GOVERNANCE results announcements and businesses to two jointly owned presentations, together with other companies, Reed Elsevier Group plc Compliance with codes of best practice important announcements concerning previously named Reed Elsevier plc, a The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier, are made available on the UK registered company which owns the Reed Elsevier NV support the principles Reed Elsevier website publishing and information businesses, of corporate governance set out in the www.
and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutch Combined Code the Principles of Good registered company which owns the Governance and Code of Best Practice, financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC issued by the UK Financial Services BOARDS and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their Authority the Combined Code, and separate legal and national identities and corporate governance best practice in The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed are publicly held companies.
Reed The Netherlands such as the Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in recommendations of the Peters Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise London and New York, and Reed Elsevier Committee.
The boards have a balance of executive and non-executive NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam implemented standards of corporate directors who bring a wide range of skills and New York.
governance and disclosure policies and experience to the deliberations of the applicable to companies listed on the boards.
During the year the Reed Elsevier Equalisation arrangements stock exchanges of the United Kingdom PLC and Reed Elsevier NV boards each Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and The Netherlands.
The effect of this is met four times, the board of Elsevier each hold a 50% interest in Reed Elsevier that an obligation applying to one will, Reed Finance BV met three times, and Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a where practicable and not in conflict, also the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc met 39% interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, be observed by the other.
with Reed Elsevier NV holding a 61% PLC, which has its primary listing on the The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally London Stock Exchange, has complied Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc holds an indirect equity interest in Reed throughout the period under review with are harmonised.
Subject to approval by Elsevier NV, reflecting the arrangements the provisions of Section 1 of the the respective shareholders, all the entered into between the two companies Combined Code.
Reed Elsevier NV which directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are at the time of the merger, which has its primary listing on Euronext in also directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and determined the equalisation ratio Amsterdam, has complied throughout the of Reed Elsevier NV.
No individual may be whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary period under review with the listing rules appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier share is, in broad terms, intended to of Euronext in Amsterdam, and best PLC, Reed Elsevier NV or Reed Elsevier confer equivalent economic interests to custom and practice appropriate to Group plc unless recommended by the 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
internationally focused Dutch companies, joint Nominations Committee, although The equalisation ratio is subject to such as recommended by the Peters the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier change to reflect share splits and similar Committee.
NV shareholders maintain their rights to events that affect the number of The ways in which the relevant appoint individuals to their respective outstanding ordinary shares of either principles of corporate governance are boards, in accordance with the provisions Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
applied and complied with within Reed of the Articles of Association of those Under the equalisation arrangements, Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed companies.
Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders have a Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier On appointment, directors receive 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, Reed Finance BV are described below.
training appropriate to their level of and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders During the period under review the previous experience.
All directors have other than Reed Elsevier PLC have a boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed access to the services of the respective 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier.
Elsevier NV established a joint Corporate company secretaries and may take Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Governance Committee with independent professional advice in the Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy responsibility for reviewing ongoing furtherance of their duties, at the substantially equivalent dividend and developments and best practice in relevant companys expense.
capital rights with respect to their corporate governance.
The boards consider all of the ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC NV participate in regular dialogue with PLC and Reed Elsevier NV to be and Reed Elsevier NV have agreed, institutional shareholders, and independent, with the exception of Steven except in exceptional circumstances, to presentations on the Reed Elsevier Perrick, who is a partner in Freshfields recommend equivalent gross dividends combined businesses are made after the Bruckhaus Deringer, an international including, with respect to the dividend on announcement of the interim and full firm of advisers which provides legal Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the year results.
A trading update is provided advice to Reed Elsevier.
associated UK tax credit, based on the at the respective Annual General All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC Meetings of the two companies, and Elsevier NV directors are subject to ordinary share pays dividends in sterling near the end of the financial year.
The retirement at least every three years, and and is subject to UK tax law with respect Annual General Meetings provide an are able then to make themselves 12 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 140350 pp12-23 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 13 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE available for re-election by shareholders Elliott, Cees van Lede and David Reid as services by the auditors.
The amounts at the respective Annual General members of the supervisory board.
paid to the auditors both for audit and Meetings.
Biographical information in respect of non-audit services, together with a As a general rule, non-executive Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, the member of the description of the services provided, directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV supervisory board who appears on page 38.
The director of members of the Reed Elsevier NV does not serve on the Reed Elsevier PLC internal audit and senior representatives supervisory board serve on the respective and Reed Elsevier Group plc boards, of the external auditors attend meetings board for a maximum period of ten years.
appears on page 11 of the Annual Review of the committees.
Reed Elsevier PLC Corporate Governance Committee The Reed Elsevier PLC board consists of Reed Elsevier Group plc Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV five executive directors: Crispin Davis The Reed Elsevier Group plc board have established a joint Corporate Chief Executive Officer, Mark Armour consists of five executive directors and six Governance Committee, wholly Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide non-executive directors.
Biographical comprising non-executive directors, the Aast, Derk Haank and Andrew Prozes, information in respect of the members of majority of whom are independent.
The and six non-executive directors: Morris the board appears on pages 10 and 11 of Committee is chaired by Tabaksblat Chairman, John Brock, the Annual Review and Summary Morris Tabaksblat, the other members Roelof Nelissen, Steven Perrick, Lord Financial Statements.
being Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, John Brock, Sharman and Rolf Stomberg senior Roelof Nelissen, Steven Perrick, Lord independent non-executive director.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
In addition At the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual The supervisory board of Elsevier Reed to reviewing ongoing developments and General Meeting to be held on 8 April Finance BV comprises Roelof Nelissen best practice in corporate governance, 2003, Mark Armour, Roelof Nelissen, Chairman, Mark Armour, Dien fide the Committee is also responsible for Steven Perrick and Andrew Prozes will Boer-Kruyt and Steven Perrick, with the recommending the structure and retire by rotation as directors.
Being management board consisting of Willem operation of the various committees of eligible, Mark Armour and Andrew Boellaard and Jacques Billy.
the boards and the qualifications and Prozes will offer themselves for reAppointments to the supervisory and criteria for membership of each election.
Roelof Nelissen and Steven management boards are made by the committee, including the independence Perrick will not be seeking re-election.
shareholders, in accordance with the of members of the boards.
At the Annual General Meeting companys Articles of Association.
The Committee met during the period resolutions will also be submitted under review to assess the performance proposing the appointment of Patrick of individual directors and the functioning Tierney as an executive director, and COMMITTEES and constitution of the boards.
Mark Elliott, Cees van Lede and David Reid as non-executive directors.
Audit Committees Nominations Committee Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc have established have established a joint Nominations Reed Elsevier NV has a two-tier board Audit Committees which comprise only Committee, comprising a majority of structure comprising a supervisory board non-executive directors, the majority of non-executive directors.
The Committee of seven members, all of whom are whom are independent.
The committees, is chaired by Morris Tabaksblat, the other non-executives, and an executive board of which meet regularly, are chaired by Lord members being Crispin Davis, five members.
The members of the Sharman, the other members being John Steven Perrick and Rolf Stomberg.
The supervisory board are Morris Tabaksblat Brock, Steven Perrick, Rolf Stomberg and committee meets regularly and its terms Chairman, Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, John Roelof Nelissen.
Messrs Brock and of reference include assuring board Brock, Roelof Nelissen, Steven Perrick, Stomberg were appointed to the succession and making Lord Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
The recommendations to the boards of Reed executive board comprises Crispin Davis committees are responsible for reviewing Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Chief Executive Officer, Mark Armour matters relating to the financial affairs of Elsevier Group plc concerning the Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide the respective companies, internal appointment or reappointment of Aast, Derk Haank and Andrew Prozes.
control policies and the internal and directors to, and the retirement of At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General external audit programmes.
This directors from, those boards.
Meeting to be held on 9 April 2003, Dien includes, for example, reviewing In conjunction with the Chairman of the fide Boer-Kruyt, Roelof Nelissen and accounting policies, compliance with Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration Steven Perrick will retire by rotation as accounting standards and other statutory Committee and external consultants, the members of the supervisory board, and requirements, and matters relating to committee is also responsible for Mark Armour and Andrew Prozes will risk management and the effectiveness developing proposals for the retire by rotation as members of the of internal controls.
The committees are remuneration and fees for new directors.
Being eligible, Mark also responsible for the selection of Armour, Dien fide Boer-Kruyt and Andrew auditors, and making an annual Remuneration Committee Prozes will offer themselves for reassessment of the effectiveness of the Reed Elsevier Group plc has established election.
Roelof Nelissen and Steven audit and the auditors independence, a Remuneration Committee which Perrick will not be seeking re-election.
At prior to making a recommendation to the comprises only independent nonthe Annual General Meeting resolutions boards in respect of the reappointment of executive directors.
The committee, will also be submitted proposing the the auditors.
The committees approve the which meets regularly, is chaired by Rolf appointment of Patrick Tierney as a fees for the audit and, in addition, now Stomberg, the other members being member of the executive board and Mark pre-approve the provision of all non-audit John Brock and Roelof Nelissen.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 13 140350 pp12-23 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 14 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The committee is responsible for internal control of Reed Elsevier Group and recruitment and retention of recommending to the board the plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
remuneration in all its forms of executive The major strategic risks facing the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, and Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses are Operating companies provides advice to the Chief Executive considered by the Strategy Committee.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is Officer on the remuneration of executives Litigation and other legal and regulatory responsible for the system of internal at a senior level below the board.
matters are managed by legal directors control of the Reed Elsevier publishing The fees of non-executive directors are in Europe and the United States.
and information businesses, while the determined by each of the boards as a The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are whole.
Committee receives regular reports on responsible for the system of internal A Directors Remuneration Report, the management of material risks and control in respect of the finance group which has been approved by the boards reviews these reports with executive activities.
The boards of Reed Elsevier of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier management.
The Audit Committee also Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on receives regular reports from both are also responsible for reviewing the pages 16 to 23.
This report also serves as internal and external auditors on internal effectiveness of their system of internal disclosure of the directors remuneration control matters.
The objective of these systems is and interests in shares of the two parent Business Group is required, at the end of to manage, rather than eliminate, the companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed the financial year, to review the risk of failure to achieve business Elsevier NV.
effectiveness of its internal controls and objectives.
Accordingly, they can report its findings on a detailed basis only provide reasonable, but not absolute, to the management of Reed Elsevier Strategy Committee assurance against material misstatement Group plc.
These reports are summarised Reed Elsevier Group plc has established or loss.
and, as part of the annual review of a Strategy Committee, comprising a The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc effectiveness, submitted to the Audit majority of independent non-executive and Elsevier Reed Finance BV have Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Committee is chaired by implemented an ongoing process for The Chairman of the Audit Committee Morris Tabaksblat, the other members identifying, evaluating and managing the reports to the board on any significant being Crispin Davis, John Brock and Lord significant risks faced by their respective internal control matters arising.
The committee meets regularly businesses.
This process has been in and its terms of reference include place throughout the year ended reviewing the major features of the 31 December 2002 and up to the date of Elsevier Reed Finance BV strategy proposed by the Chief Executive the approvals of the Annual Reports and Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established Officer, and subsequently recommending Financial Statements.
policy guidelines, which are applied for the proposed strategy to the board.
The all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
committee is also responsible for Reed Elsevier Group plc The boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV reviewing any acquisition or investment, Reed Elsevier Group plc has an have adopted schedules of matters that which would have major strategic or established framework of procedures and are required to be brought to them for structural implications for Reed Elsevier internal controls, which is set out in a decision.
Procedures are in place for Group plc.
group Policies and Procedures Manual, monitoring the activities of the finance and with which the management of each group, including a comprehensive business is required to comply.
The major INTERNAL CONTROL businesses are required to maintain risks affecting the finance group have Parent companies systems of internal control, which are been identified and evaluated and are The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and appropriate to the nature and scale of subject to regular review.
The controls in Reed Elsevier NV exercise independent their activities and address all significant place to manage these risks and the level supervisory roles over the activities and operational and financial risks that they of residual risk accepted are monitored systems of internal control of Reed face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group by the boards.
The internal control Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed plc has adopted a schedule of matters system of Elsevier Reed Finance BV is Finance BV.
They approve the strategies that are required to be brought to it reviewed each year by its external and annual budgets of each company, for decision.
and receive regular reports on their Each business group has identified and operations, including their treasury evaluated its major risks, the controls in Annual review and risk management activities.
place to manage those risks and the level As part of the year end procedures, the The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and of residual risk accepted.
Risk boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Reed Elsevier NV have each adopted a management and control procedures are Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and schedule of matters which are required embedded into the operations of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV have reviewed to be brought to them for decision.
Major business and include the monitoring of the effectiveness of the systems of transactions proposed by the boards of progress in areas for improvement that internal control during the last financial Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed come to management and board year.
Finance BV require the approval of the attention.
The major risks identified boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and include business continuity, protection of Reed Elsevier NV.
IT systems and data, challenges to The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed intellectual property rights, management Elsevier NV Audit Committees meet on a of strategic and operational change, regular basis to review the systems of evaluation and integration of acquisitions, 14 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 140350 pp12-23 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 15 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF US CERTIFICATIONS A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Reed Elsevier THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As required by section 302 of the US PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other Sarbanes-Oxley Act and by related rules senior Reed Elsevier managers, has been The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed issued by the US Securities and established to provide assurance to the Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Exchange Commission, the Chief Chief Executive Officer and Chief Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to Executive Officer and Chief Financial Financial Officer regarding their prepare financial statements as at the Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed certifications.
end of each financial period, which give a Elsevier NV certify in the respective true and fair view of the state of affairs, Annual Reports 2002 on Form 20-F filed and of the profit or loss, of the respective with the Commission that they are GOING CONCERN companies and their subsidiaries, joint responsible for establishing and ventures and associates.
They are maintaining disclosure controls and The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and responsible for maintaining proper procedures and that they have: Reed Elsevier NV, having made accounting records, for safeguarding designed such disclosure controls and appropriate enquiries, consider that assets, and for taking reasonable steps to procedures to ensure that material adequate resources exist for prevent and detect fraud and other information relating to Reed Elsevier is the combined businesses to continue in irregularities.
The directors are also made known to them: operational existence for the foreseeable responsible for selecting suitable future and that, therefore, it is accounting policies and applying them on evaluated the effectiveness of Reed appropriate to adopt the going concern a consistent basis, making judgements Elseviers disclosure controls and basis in preparing the financial and estimates that are prudent and procedures: statements.
based on their evaluation, disclosed to Applicable accounting standards have the Audit Committees and the external been followed and the Reed Elsevier auditors all significant deficiencies in combined financial statements, which are the design or operation of disclosure the responsibility of the directors of Reed controls and procedures and any Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, are frauds, whether or not material, that prepared using accounting policies which involve management or other comply with both UK and Dutch Generally employees who have a significant role Accepted Accounting Principles.
in Reed Elsevier internal controls: and presented in the Annual Reports on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 15
