B is where the options are in respect of shares whose market price at the end of the financial year is below the option exercise price.
Options granted under the Share Option Plan and under the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan and the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each: Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares stated in italics.
The share options outstanding at 31 December 2002 or at date of retirement if earlier are exercisable at various dates up to 2012, subject to the performance criteria explained on pages 54 and 55, options granted under the Share Option Plan are exercisable no earlier than three years from the date of grant and no later than the tenth anniversary of the grant.
In respect of options exercised during the period.
The mid market price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2002 was 1,240p 2001: 1,316p.
During 2002, the highest mid market price was 1,492p and the lowest mid market price was 981p.
The mid market price of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares at 31 December 2002 was A$33.95 2001: A$37.21.
During 2002 the highest mid market price was A$41.35 and the lowest mid market price was A$29.05.
Options over Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares were granted under the Share Option Plan at a price of 1,458.6p per share and under the Share Savings Plan at 859p, 876p and 8.78p per share.
Options over Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were granted under the Share Option Plan at a price of A$39.8708 per share and under the Share Savings Plan at a price of A$25.57 per share.
No directors options lapsed during the year.
Directors participated in one grant under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan.
Directors entitled to take part in the Rio Tinto plc section of the Share Savings Plan were granted options over 2,737 shares at 876p per share, 862 of which are exercisable during the six months beginning 1 January 2006 and 1,875 of which are exercisable during the six months beginning 1 January 2008.
No directors took part in the Rio Tinto Limited Section of the Plan.
All other share options were granted under the Share Option Plan on 13 March 2002 at the prices stated in note 6 above.
No options had their terms and conditions varied during the year.
The above numbers include the following grants, exercises and cancellations under the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan: Sir Robert Wilson, Mr R Adams and Mr J C A Leslie each exercised 906 options at an option price of 761p.
Sir Robert Wilson and Mr R Adams were each granted 431 options and Mr J C A Leslie was granted 1,875 options at an option price of 876p.
All other options over Rio Tinto plc shares were granted under the Share Option Plan.
Mr R L Clifford was granted 208,882 options and Mr O L Groeneveld was granted 73,965 options under the Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan during the year.
These grants were approved by shareholders under ASX Listing Rule 10.14 at the April 2002 AGM.
On Mr C R H Bulls retirement, the directors decided to use their discretion under the rules of the Share Option Plan to allow each grant to be exercised up until the tenth anniversary of the grant, subject to the performance conditions being met.
Rio Tintos register of directors interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Rio Tinto shares.
Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 59 REMUNERATION REPORT Corporate governance Rio Tinto is committed to high standards of prohibited from dealing at any time on updated to reflect best practice and corporate governance, for which the directors considerations of a short term nature.
procedures introduced to meet changed are accountable to shareholders.
The following policies are Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have Board committees currently in place: health, safety and the adopted a common approach to corporate The directors have established four committees environment: communities: human rights: governance.
Both Companies have, for the which are fundamental for good corporate access to land: employees: business whole of the period under review, applied the governance in the Group.
Regular reports of integrity: bribery and corruption: code of principles contained in Part 1 of the their activities are given to the boards and ethics covering the preparation of financial Combined Code on best practice in minutes are circulated to all directors.
These corporate governance appended to the Committee members, shown on pages 50 policies apply to all subsidiary companies.
Listing Rules published by the UK Listing and 51, are all non executive directors, except In line with best practice, the Group has Authority.
The detailed provisions of Section 1 for the Nominations committee, which includes introduced a Group wide whistle blowing of the Code have been complied with as the chairman of Rio Tinto.
Both Companies also The Audit committees main intended to encompass all employees who support the initiative of the Australian Stock responsibilities include the review of accounting are encouraged to report any concerns, Exchange ASX on disclosure of corporate principles, policies and practices adopted in the including any suspicion of a violation of the governance practice.
In addition, Rio Tinto preparation of public financial information: the Groups financial reporting and environmental has voluntarily adopted the recommendations review with management of procedures relating procedures, without fear of recrimination.
of the US Blue Ribbon Committee in respect to financial and capital expenditure controls, In the case of business partners, such of disclosures to shareholders, as detailed in including internal audit plans and reports: the as joint ventures and associated companies, the Audit committees statement on page 61. review with external auditors of the scope and where the Group does not have operating The boards are monitoring results of their audit: and the nomination of responsibility, Rio Tintos policies are developments in the corporate governance auditors for appointment by shareholders.
communicated to them and they are area in our three principal share markets.
Its responsibilities also include the review of encouraged to adopt similar policies of their A statement relating to directors corporate governance practices of Group own.
Practical advice is offered wherever responsibilities for preparation of the financial sponsored pension funds.
statements and going concern is on page 61. auditors, the finance director, the Group In 2001, the Association of British controller and Group internal auditor attend Insurers issued its guidelines relating to The boards meetings.
The Audit committees charter is on socially responsible investment.
Rio Tintos The Companies have common boards of page 62. report on social and environmental matters directors, which currently consist of six The Remuneration committee is follows these guidelines and can be found executive and ten non executive directors.
responsible for determining the broad policy on pages 48 and 49 of this report and on Of the non executive directors, eight are for executive remuneration and for the pages 22 to 25 of the 2002 Annual review.
Two of them have connections individual remuneration and benefits of However, details of the Groups overall and with the Companies: Mr Davis is a former executive directors.
Full disclosure of all individual businesses social and chief executive of the Group and Mr Mayhew elements of directors remuneration is set out environmental performance continue to is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs in the Remuneration report on pages 53 to 59. be published on Rio Tintos website: stockbrokers.
Collectively, the non executive The Nominations committees main www.
com directors provide broadly based knowledge responsibility is for nominating candidates to and experience to the boards deliberations Responsibilities of the directors fill board vacancies and for recommending and are vital for corporate accountability.
The directors are required by UK and board composition and balance.
The directors meet regularly and have a Australian company law to prepare financial The Committee on social and formal schedule of matters specifically statements for each financial period which environmental accountability is responsible for reserved for their decision.
A procedure has give a true and fair view of the state of reviewing the effectiveness of management been established for directors to obtain affairs of the Group as at the end of the policies and procedures in delivering the independent professional advice at the financial period and of the profit or loss and standards set out in The way we work, Companies expense in furtherance of their cash flows for that period.
To ensure that Rio Tintos statement of business practice, duties as directors.
All directors have full and this requirement is satisfied the directors are which do not fall within the remit of other timely access to the information required to responsible for establishing and maintaining board committees and in particular, those discharge their responsibilities fully and adequate internal controls and procedures relating to health, safety and the environment effectively.
They also have access to the for financial reporting throughout the Group.
The overall objective of the advice and services of both company The directors consider that the financial Committee is to promote the development of secretaries.
statements have been prepared in business practices throughout the Group All directors are elected by shareholders accordance with applicable accounting consistent with the high standards expected at the annual general meetings following their standards, using the most appropriate of a responsibly managed company, and to appointment and, thereafter, are subject to accounting policies for Rio Tinto's business develop the necessary clear accountability on re-election at least once every three years.
and supported by reasonable and prudent these practices.
Non executive directors are normally judgments.
Except as indicated in note 1 expected to serve at least two, three year Statement of business practice to the financial statements, the accounting terms and, except where special The way we work provides the directors and policies have been consistently applied.
circumstances justify it, would not normally all Group employees with a summary of the The directors, senior management, senior serve more than three such terms.
principal policies procedures in place to help financial managers and other members of Both Companies have policies in place ensure that high standards are met.
staff who are required to exercise judgement to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto securities Policies are adopted by the directors in the course of the preparation of the that are no less stringent than the Model after wide consultation, both externally and financial statements have been required to Code set out in the UK Listing Rules.
Once adopted they are conduct themselves with integrity and honesty Directors and employees are prohibited from communicated to operating companies and in accord with the ethical standards of dealing when in possession of price sensitive worldwide, together with guidance and their profession and or business.
Directors and designated support on implementation.
Operations are The directors are responsible for employees are prohibited from dealing during then required to devote the necessary effort maintaining proper accounting records, a close period which is the period of two at management level to implement and report in accordance with the UK Companies Act months before a profit announcement.
1985 and the Australian Corporations Act Directors and designated employees are also The way we work is being reviewed and 2001 as amended by the Australian 60 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
