Corporate governance The Board recognises the importance of good Non-executive Directors are appointed for an There is an ongoing process for identifying, corporate governance and has, over the years, initial term that expires three years after the evaluating and managing the significant risks ensured that appropriate corporate first Annual General Meeting at which they faced by the Group, which has been in place governance procedures are in place within the were elected a Director of the Company.
during 2002 and up to the date of the Company and are kept under regular review.
At the end of the initial term the Nomination approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Committee recommends to the Board It is regularly reviewed by the Board and During the period under review the Company whether the non-executive Director should accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
has applied the principles set out in the be offered a further term of up to three years.
Combined Code incorporated into the rules The normal practice would be for no further Areview by the Board of the effectiveness of of the UK Listing Authority and has complied extensions to the term of office.
Nonthe Groups system of internal control was throughout 2002 with each of the provisions executive Directors would not normally carried out in 2002.
This included reviewing set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code continue in office past their 68th birthday and financial, operational and compliance controls except in relation to the notice period in no circumstances past their 70th birthday.
This review under Mr Letourneaus service contract.
is undertaken on an annual basis.
Mr Letourneau has a service contract with b Directors remuneration RMC Euro SAS.
In line with French market Details of how the Board has applied the Details of the internal control procedures that practice, this is terminable at any time by principles and provisions of the Combined Code are in place are as follows: three months notice but, if it is terminated by relating to Directors remuneration are described RMC Euro SAS for reasons other than cause, in the Remuneration report on pages 34 to 39.
Internal financial control he is entitled to compensation equivalent to The Audit Committee, the membership twice his annual remuneration.
c Relations with shareholders and role of which is described more fully The Board believes it is important to respond on page 33, has responsibility for The principal features of the Companys adequately to all the queries of both overseeing internal financial control and corporate governance procedures are as institutional and private shareholders.
At the reports to the Board.
follows: Annual General Meeting shareholders are Areview and appraisal of internal financial advised of the Groups performance over the controls is completed annually, by the a Directors previous year and are offered an opportunity management of each country in which The Board, which meets at least 10 times a to raise with the Board and respective RMC operates, to confirm that there is year, now comprises five executive Directors Committee chairmen any specific questions an appropriate management structure, and seven independent non-executive they have concerning the Group.
In addition, effective controls to safeguard assets Directors.
Short biographical details are given meetings are also held between members and reliable accounting records.
The posts of nonof the Board and institutional shareholders The Group internal audit function undertakes executive Chairman and Group Chief at various times during the year.
regular reviews of the systems of internal Executive are held by Sir John Parker and Mr financial control in the Groups businesses.
Mr F A L Robinson is the The Company also ensures that in accordance The results of audit reviews are reported senior independent non-executive Director.
with the relevant provisions of the Combined to local management, Group management Code: and the Audit Committee.
The principal responsibilities of the Board are it indicates at Annual General Meetings The Groups management structure is the strategy of the Group, its overall financial the number of proxy votes lodged on each based on the creation of local profit and operational performance and the Resolution: and centres for each of the Groups businesses.
corporate governance of the Group.
the Notices of Annual General Meetings These are organised into countries, regions are sent out at least 20 working days and activities.
There are clearly defined The Directors are provided, before each Board before the Meeting.
lines of management responsibilities at all meeting, with the appropriate information levels up to and including the Board.
The relating to the matters to be discussed.
Further d Accountability and Audit Groups accounting and reporting functions information is supplied on any significant i Financial reporting reflect this organisation.
issues which arise between Board meetings The Directors responsibilities in relation to Annual budgets are prepared for each and when specifically requested by a Director.
financial statements are described on page 43. local profit centre.
These include monthly projections of profits, capital expenditure, Recommendations on the appointment of ii Internal control cash flow and borrowings.
The budgets are both executive and non-executive Directors The Board is responsible for the Groups reviewed through the management structure, are made to the Board by the Nomination system of internal control and for reviewing culminating in a Group Budget, which is Committee, the membership of which is its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to considered and approved by the Board.
detailed on page 29. manage rather than eliminate a risk of failure Line management prepare monthly to achieve business objectives and can provide management accounts, which compare All Directors are elected by shareholders at only reasonable and not absolute assurance actual operating results, both with budget the Annual General Meetings following their against material misstatement or loss.
and with those of the previous year.
These appointment and, thereafter, are subject to accounts are reviewed by line management re-election at least once every three years.
and are then produced in consolidated form for consideration and approval by the Board.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 32 Authorisation limits are set at appropriate anti-competitive practices occurring within Committee periodically meets with the levels throughout the Group.
In February 2002, a number Auditors without the management present.
with these limits is closely monitored of additional measures were introduced The Audit Committee met three times in 2002. through the Group management structure.
including the monitoring of contact with The Committees main responsibilities are set competitors and a requirement that all out in the Audit Committee Terms of Risk management and internal operational executive Directors confirm annually that, Reference and include: and compliance control to the best of their knowledge and belief, monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness The Risk Committee which is chaired by no anti-competitive practices are occurring of the internal financial controls and Mr G Clark, an executive Director, monitors in the areas of the business for which compliance procedures: the ongoing risk management process and they are responsible.
The Board notes the reviewing the interim and annual financial operational and compliance controls.
In ongoing investigations by the competition statements before submission to the Board: fulfilling this function the Committee authorities into certain of the Groups making recommendations to the Board defines the Groups risk control activities, principally in Germany.
These regarding the Auditors and their terms of environment and, on an ongoing basis, investigations relate to alleged appointment: identifies and evaluates significant risks infringements in prior years and the Board keeping under review compliance with to the Group and ensures these risks are considers that the compliance procedures accounting standards and any changes in appropriately managed.
The Board now in place provide reasonable assurance accounting policies and practices: and considers significant risks at each meeting that future infringements of competition co-ordinating internal and external and the Risk Committee reports to the law will not take place.
Auditors and reviewing the major internal Board on its activities on a regular basis.
The Groups Health and Safety Policy is and external audit findings.
Its membership is comprised of senior monitored by the Board Health and Safety executives with responsibility for relevant Committee, the membership of which As part of its remit, the Audit Committee also functional areas at the corporate is detailed on page 29.
The Group regularly keeps under review the nature and extent of headquarters and senior executives with carries out internal health and safety non-audit services provided to the Group by responsibility for significant parts of the performance reviews and benchmarks the Auditors.
During the year the Committee Groups operations.
against other national and international approved a set of procedures in relation to the Regular reviews of the operational risks organisations.
appointment of external Auditors to within each of the Groups businesses is undertake non-audit work.
Under this policy: undertaken by local management who are The risk framework, as outlined above, the award of audit-related services to the responsible for confirming that they are gives reasonable assurance that the structure Auditors in excess of 50,000 must first be satisfied that there are effective risk of controls in operation is appropriate to approved by the Chairman of the Audit management compliance, and operational the Groups situation and that there is Committee.
Audit-related services include controls in place.
Regular reports are made an acceptable level of risk throughout formalities relating to borrowing, to the Risk Committee providing details of the business.
shareholder and other circulars, regulatory any significant risks and the action being reports, work relating to disposals and taken to mitigate such risks.
Details of e Audit Committee acquisitions and tax consulting work: significant risks identified are reported to The Audit Committee is chaired by all significant general consulting work or the Board.
Mr F A L Robinson and is composed non-audit services will be put out to tender exclusively of independent non-executive and will be subject to approval by the There are also ongoing processes for Directors.
The other members of the Audit Committee: and overseeing environmental, health and safety Committee are Sir John Parker, Mr P R the Auditors will be required to make a and competition law compliance: Hampton and Mr H Mamsch.
During the year formal report to the Audit Committee Environmental risks are monitored by the Mr C Hampson, a non-executive Director, annually on the safeguards that are in Board Environment Committee and an resigned from the Committee following his place to maintain their independence and annual report is given to the Board on the retirement from the Board on 3 May 2002. the internal safeguards in place to ensure UK Groups environmental performance.
Since the year-end Sir Keith Stuart, who is their objectivity.
The membership of this Committee is also a member of the Nomination and detailed on page 29.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, A full statement of the audit fees, together A competition law compliance policy is in resigned from the Committee in accordance with those for non-audit services in 2002 is place across the Group.
Under the policy, with the recommendation of the Higgs set out in Note 3 on page 53. relevant employees in each country receive Review.
All of the Committee members have guidance and training and are required to significant financial experience due to the f Going concern confirm compliance with the policy each senior positions they hold or held in other The operation of the Groups control year.
The policy is monitored at Group listed companies and one of the members procedures gives the Directors a reasonable level through a combination of reporting of the Committee is a qualified chartered expectation that the Company and the requirements and internal audits.
The external Auditors, the Group Group has adequate resources to continue in measures taken to implement the policy Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director operational existence for the foreseeable future.
are reviewed regularly to ensure they and Head of Group Internal Audit attend For this reason they continue to adopt the going remain effective in seeking to prevent meetings of the Committee.
The Audit concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 33
