The Group promotes small business interests through numerous awards schemes and free The rules of the Schemes impose limits on the number of shares which may be issued in education and awareness seminars.
Promoting the use of the internet in business has been respect of options granted under the Schemes over various periods.
Current best practice a particular emphasis.
The Groups awareness of the importance of prompt payment to guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI recommend that over a period small business is demonstrated by its payment terms with customers and suppliers.
of 10 years, the maximum number of shares which may be allocated for issue and issued under all of the Companys employee share schemes must not exceed 10% of the The Group is an integral and committed part of the communities in which it is based.
Close Companys issued share capital from time to time the 10% limit.
relationships with those communities have been fostered through participation in community initiatives and donations to community foundations.
The rules of the Schemes contain, in addition to the 10% limit, inner flow rates.
Under the 1999 ESOS, currently not more than 3% of the issued share capital from time to time may Although the Groups operations have minimal environmental impact, it is committed to be made available for issue under any discretionary scheme or other executive option ensuring that its operations have as little impact as is consistent with business needs.
The scheme operated by the Company in any 3 year period.
Under the SAYE Scheme and Group works to promote environmental care, to increase its understanding of environmental SAYE Scheme Ireland, not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in the issues, and to spread best environmental practice throughout its businesses.
Its waste Company from time to time may be made available for issue under any share scheme of materials are recycled where possible, and paper waste is minimised by promoting the Company in any 5 year period.
The ABI no longer requires companies to have these paperless processes and downloadable software products.
inner flow rates in place.
The Group is committed to monitoring its corporate responsibility policies in key areas The directors are proposing that the inner flow rates in the Schemes be removed in line including environmental impact, under the oversight of the Audit Committee.
with the ABI guidelines and to give them greater flexibility for future grants of options over new issue shares.
This will enable the Company to further recruit, motivate and retain Annual General Meeting employees by offering them participation in these Schemes.
Notice of the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of The Sage Group plc to be held on 7 March 2003 is set out on page 56.
A form of proxy is enclosed for members who wish In any event, the Companys current grant policy in respect of options granted under to use one.
It should be returned so as to be with the Companys registrars no later than the 1999 ESOS is limited to options with a market value of up to one times salary per 11.00am on Wednesday 5 March 2003.
Shareholders with internet access may register participant per annum.
However, in exceptional circumstances such as on promotion or their voting instructions for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting via the internet.
They recruitment a grant of options with a market value of up to three times salary may be may register their vote electronically by going to www.
They will be required granted to that individual for that year only.
to key in the three security numbers printed on the form of proxy to access the voting site.
As well as the ordinary business of the meeting, resolutions will also be proposed to enable The rules of the Schemes as they are proposed to be amended will be available for the directors to continue to use their existing power to allot unissued shares in the capital of inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any the Company and to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of weekday public holidays excepted from the date of the notice up to and including the 637,774.
This amount represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
date of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
As well as the ordinary business of the meeting, resolution 9 set out in the Notice of Meeting will authorise the directors to make certain changes to the rules of the Companys 1999 Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of Meeting is to approve the Remuneration and Executive Share Option Scheme the 1999 ESOS, Savings Related Share Option Scheme Succession Committee Report on pages 26 to 28.
The Directors Remuneration Report the SAYE Scheme and Savings Related Share Option Scheme Ireland the SAYE Regulations 2002 the Regulations require, in respect of all accounting periods ending Scheme Ireland together the Schemes.
on or after 31 December 2002, that a report prepared in accordance with the Regulations is put to a vote of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Although the Regulations do not apply to the financial year ended 30 September 2002 the directors have decided that in the light of this new legislation which will apply to future financial years it is appropriate for the Report to be put to a vote of shareholders this year in any event.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 20 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 21 DIRECTORS REPORT - CONTINUED In Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Meeting, the directors are taking this opportunity CREST to incorporate into the Companys Articles of Association enabling provisions to permit In accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the CREST Regulations, electronic communications and voting at general meetings to be conducted electronically.
the Company gives notice that it intends to pass a resolution of its directors that title to the These provisions are in addition to the conventional methods of voting and communication ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company, in issue or to be issued, may be currently contained in the Articles.
The new Articles will permit members to cast votes by transferred by means of a relevant system.
electronic or such other means, in lieu of a show of hands, as may be approved by the Board and to appoint a proxy by electronic means, including by facsimile and e-mail.
The above notice informs members, in accordance with the CREST Regulations, that the The new Articles will allow notices, documents or other communications to be given to Company intends to pass a directors resolution as defined in the CREST Regulations members electronically, the Company to send its annual report and accounts to members in relation to its ordinary shares.
The passing of the directors resolution enables the electronically, if previously agreed by the member, and to publish documents on the Companys ordinary shares to participate in the paperless electronic settlement system Companys website.
A notice of a board meeting may be given electronically and board CREST.
Minor amendments to the Companys Articles to ensure consistency with the resolutions may be approved electronically under the new Articles.
CREST Regulations are included in the Articles to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting.
Members will not be required to hold their shares through CREST: it is a voluntary Copies of the existing Articles and the proposed new Articles are available for inspection at system and does not change their existing rights.
the addresses specified in the Notice of Meeting.
Auditors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Mr G S Berruyer will be retiring at The auditors, , have indicated their willingness to continue in office, the Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
In addition, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr T C W Ingram who was appointed to the Board on 15 March 2002 and Mr R Verni who was appointed to the Board on 23 July 2002 will submit themselves for re-appointment in By Order of the Board accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Mr G S Berruyer and Mr R Verni each have a service contract with the Company terminable on 12 months notice.
Mr T C W Ingram has no service contract with the Company.
M J Robinson Secretary 3 December 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Remuneration and Succession Committee The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Groups Remuneration and Succession Committee is chaired by Mr L C N Bury, and its This statement describes how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied other members are the other independent non-executive directors, Professor C J Constable to the Company.
Throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with the and Mr T C W Ingram.
The Chief Executive attends meetings except when his own provisions set out in the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the performance and remuneration are under review but is not a member of the Committee.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, unless otherwise indicated.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of The Board the executive directors including share options, performance related bonus schemes, The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, five other pension rights and compensation payments.
Remuneration consultants advise the executive directors, three independent non-executive directors and another non-executive Committee.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one The Committee is also responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, another and are clearly defined.
The directors biographies appear on page 17.
These having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
In appropriate cases, recruitment demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to consultants are used to assist in the process.
All directors are subject to re-election at least bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards every three years.
of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Where and Succession Committee Report on pages 26 to 28, together with further details of the it is considered appropriate, training will be made available to directors.
A statement of Remuneration and Succession Committee.
the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 25.
The Board formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision on Audit Committee 28 November 2002.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Professor C J Constable, and its other members are Mr L C N Bury, Mr M E W Jackson and Mr T C W Ingram.
It meets at least twice a year.
The All directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups internal and external auditors.
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Group Finance Director.
The Audit Committee regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors take independent is responsible for reviewing half year and annual accounts before their submission to the Board.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a matter The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their for the Board as a whole.
remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost The Board meets formally six times a year, reviewing trading performance, ensuring effectiveness, the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In addition, the Audit adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities Committee reviews the appointment, remuneration and utilisation of internal audit resource.
and reviewing regular reports to shareholders.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully Relations with shareholders considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The Chairmans and Chief timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the Secretary to all directors in advance Executives Review on pages 2 to 5 includes a detailed review of the business and future of Board meetings.
A full Annual Report and Accounts is sent to shareholders.
The Company also has a website www.
com which contains up to date information on Group The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the Groups affairs: activities and published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, as well as presentations to analysts after the Companys announcement of the year-end and half-year results.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 22 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 23
