Combined Code The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26, explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the code of best practice in corporate governance as set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code.
The Board considers that it has complied with the Code provisions throughout the financial period except in regard to the notice period of Directors service contracts as outlined on page 25.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises four Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 16 and 17.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the role of the Chairman is Non-executive.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-executive Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby helping to ensure that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share option schemes.
Mr R B Pointon is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board meets regularly, at least ten times a year, and in addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several meetings are held at subsidiaries where local operations are reviewed.
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, which may delegate certain powers to Board Committees.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a dened limit, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years if eligible, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
Any Director appointed by the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
On appointment, Directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
It is chaired by Mr R C Biffa from 25 April 2002 and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
It meets at least three times a year.
The external auditors and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment and fees of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit including the management letter, reviews of the half-year and annual financial statements, internal control procedures including compliance with the Turnbull Committees guidance, accounting policies, compliance with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R B Pointon from 25 April 2002 and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specic package for each of the Executive Directors.
It also determines the terms on which executive and SAYE share options are awarded to employees.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26 contains particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in the Groups shares.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr I M Clubb from 25 April 2002 and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning.
2002 Pensions The Group operates pension arrangements for UK employees that provide benets based on final pensionable salary.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group, are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Three trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member nominated trustees were appointed in 2001.
Senior employees in Belgium are provided with dened contribution pension benets.
In the Netherlands, employees participate in a compulsory collective Transport Industry Wide pension scheme which provides benets up to a certain level of pay.
Senior Dutch employees earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension scheme also participate in a dened contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Relationship with Investors The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Company is pleased to welcome both private and institutional shareholders to its Annual General Meeting and to discuss any topic shareholders may wish to raise.
co. uk provides additional information for shareholders and the general public.
Internal Control The Board confirms that a continuing formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group has been in place for the entire financial year 2001 02 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Group and subsidiary boards and complies with the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull working party.
This approach ensures that internal control and risk management measures are embedded into the operations of the business and any areas requiring improvement are addressed.
The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
The key features of the control system are as follows: i regular visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings: ii regular Executive Committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and Executive Directors: iii formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units with procedures for reporting compliance therewith, for identifying weaknesses and for taking corrective action: iv comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business sector approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances: v a formal clearly dened framework for controlling and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels: vi identication and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating board and Group Board level: vii appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities: viii an internal Management Systems department which undertakes periodic examination of written business and operational procedures and identies non compliances: and ix an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 20.
The Group publishes separate annual reports on Health & Safety and on Environmental Performance Indicators.
The independent Environmental Advisory Board also publishes its own annual report.
Further details about these reports can be found on pages 13 to 15 and copies are also available on the Groups website www.
continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors report on page 27, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or losses and cash ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2002 the Directors have: i used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied: ii made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: iii ensured that all applicable accounting standards have been followed: and iv prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The uncertainty regarding legal requirements in relation to the website is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and distribution of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The auditors report on the financial statements set out on page 27 confirms that the scope of their report covers the provisions of the Combined Code that are specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.
