ensuring that the assets have been protected against unauthorised and counter parties, currency exposures and approved use, that proper accounting records have been maintained and that instruments.
The balance of the groups cash reserves is the financial information which is produced is reliable.
However such managed by its treasury function in accordance with guidelines a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of referred to in the Finance Directors report.
assets being unprotected against unauthorised use and of failure to achieve business objectives.
The system can provide only reasonable Clearly dened guidelines have been established for capital and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
expenditure and investment decisions encompassing budgets, appraisal and review procedures and levels of authority.
The directors recognise that they are responsible for providing a return to shareholders which is consistent with the responsible Risk management review assessment and mitigation of risks.
The detailed policies and internal control procedures established at operational level are reviewed by group The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for personnel.
Each business is responsible for regularly assessing identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group, its risk management activities to ensure good practice in all which has been in place for the year under review and up to the areas.
These assessments are reviewed by group personnel date of approval of the annual report and accounts and that they twice a year.
The Audit committee receives reports on internal have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls utilising control issues from management and from the external auditors.
the review process set out below.
Going concern Standards After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable There are group-wide guidelines on the minimum requirements expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they also group-wide guidelines on the minimum level of internal continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the control that each of the divisions should exercise over specified financial statements on pages 48 to 74. processes.
Each business has developed and documented policies and procedures to comply with the minimum control standards established, including procedures for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
The board of each business is required to confirm annually that it has complied with those policies and procedures.
High level controls All operations prepare annual plans and budgets for operational and cash performance, which are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
A significant part of the groups cash reserves is managed by independent fund managers operating within detailed guidelines specified by the group relating to, inter alia, permitted investments Annual Report and Accounts 2002 41 Remuneration report Remuneration levels are set by reference to individual The company operates an executive pension scheme for senior performance, experience and market conditions with a view to executives, which is incorporated in the main group scheme.
providing a package which is appropriate for the responsibilities The scheme is a dened benefit scheme whereby retirement involved.
Under the terms of the groups existing arrangements: benets based on final remuneration and length of service are funded through a trustee administered scheme.
The company i performance related bonuses are payable to executive pays contributions to the scheme on behalf of executives, based directors.
Payment of such bonuses is dependent upon on the recommendations of the independent actuary who carries the achievement of demanding preset targets relating out a valuation of the scheme every three years.
to operating profit and return on capital employed.
Performance related bonuses are not pensionable other No director has a contract of service with the company which than in the case of Peter J Jackson for whom there is a is determinable after one year.
ii subject to the rules of the companys share option schemes, Peter J Jackson and John G Bason are both entitled under their service contracts to receive an allocation of share options for each of five years and three years respectively, commencing December 1999.
The remuneration of the directors was as follows: Salary 2002 2001 or fees Bonus Benets Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Harold W Bailey 168 12 180 173 George G Weston 198 35 12 245 204 Peter J Jackson 449 135 17 601 568 John G Bason 340 101 17 458 415 WG Galen Weston Lord MacGregor 29 29 28 Professor Sir Roland Smith 31 31 28 Martin G Adamson 29 29 28 Michael R Alexander 20 20 1,264 271 58 1,593 1,444 Benets include the value attributed to benets such as company cars, fuel and medical insurance.
