Corporate governance statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Committees of the Board governance The standing Board committees are the Audit Committee, the The Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Executive Rules of the Financial Services Authority requires companies listed on Committee.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference that the London Stock Exchange to make a disclosure statement on its have been approved by the Board.
Details of each committee are as application of the principles of and compliance with the provisions of follows: good governance set out in the Combined Code.
Throughout the period i The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Ronald Nordmann and under review the Company has been committed to high standards of usually meets four times a year.
Other members of the Committee corporate governance and, in the directors opinion, has complied, are Dr James Cavanaugh and Dr Barry Price.
Under its terms of subject as below, with the provisions of the Combined Code.
reference the Committee is required, amongst other things, to review The Board the effectiveness of internal control systems, to monitor the The Board, which comprises three executive and six non-executive relationship with external auditors, including discussing the scope of directors, meets at least four times a year and the meetings are well the audit and any issues arising from it, to review the Companys attended.
The Board seeks to provide effective leadership and the statutory accounts and other financial statements and information, control required for a listed company and in so doing has formally and to review the business risks faced by the Company.
reserved specific matters to itself for determination.
Specific powers ii The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Dr Barry and authorities are also delegated to the Executive Committee and Price, usually meets four times a year.
Dr James Cavanaugh and to various other Board committees set out below.
Mr Grard Veilleux are the other members of this Committee.
Under The Company views all of the non-executive directors as independent its terms of reference the Committee is required, amongst other of management and free from any business or other relationship which things, to determine the policy for the remuneration and could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The remuneration of nonexecutive directors is determined by the Board.
The directors The Company does, however, accept that on a strict interpretation of remuneration report appears on pages 11 to 20 and provides further the Combined Code the interests that Dr Cavanaugh has as President information on this Committee.
of HealthCare Ventures LLC and the position The Hon James Grant has as a partner of Stikeman Elliot, a law firm retained by BioChem prior to iii The Nomination Committee has been delegated with responsibility the merger, prevents the strict application of independence.
The same for nominations of directors to the Board.
This Committee meets is also relevant to Dr Francesco Bellini by virtue of the executive as required and is chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald directorship that Dr Bellini held with BioChem.
Nordmann, The Hon James Grant and Dr Barry Price also serve on this Committee.
All directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the iv The Executive Committee has the day-to-day management of the Companys expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
No such Company delegated to it by the Board and operates within clear independent advice has been sought.
The Board is confident that all its and formal parameters.
The Chief Executive is the Chairman of the members have the knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the Committee, which consists of nine senior executives including the functions required of a director of a listed company.
The Executive Committee reports to and seeks guidance from the Board on a regular basis.
Biographical details of the Board are shown on page 6.
Directors remuneration Chairman and Chief Executive The Companys remuneration policy appears as part of the directors The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
The report details the level of The non-executive Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible for remuneration for directors and the basis upon which executive the conduct of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are remuneration is fixed.
conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account, so that no individual director or small group of directors dominates proceedings.
Relations with shareholders The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and chairs The Company is committed to maintaining good relations with the Executive Committee.
shareholders through the announcement of quarterly results and the provision of annual reports.
The Company also arranges individual and Senior non-executive director group meetings with its institutional shareholders in order to discuss Dr Barry Price is the nominated senior independent non-executive relevant communications to ensure that the investing community director.
receives a balanced and complete view of the Companys performance Supply of information and issues faced by the business.
The Company holds its Annual The executive directors and the Company Secretary are responsible for General Meeting in London and all shareholders are given the ensuring that detailed information is provided to the Board at least one opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
week before any scheduled meeting of the Board.
Before decisions are The Companys website at www.
com provides Company made, consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to information and is regularly updated.
the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is required.
Balanced and understandable assessment of positions and prospects Re-appointment The Company strives to give full, timely and realistic assessments of Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of two years.
matters that impact on its business and financial position and to present Re-appointment of non-executive directors following the expiry of scientific and other price-sensitive data in a balanced way.
Before it was such two-year period is subject to Board approval.
required under SEC rules, the Company voluntarily adopted quarterly financial reporting, which is not obligatory in the UK.
Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc 9 Corporate governance statement Financial disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors These reviews, together with regular reports on financial performance, The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal and represent the main elements in establishing the effectiveness of the transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal control and system of internal control.
In addition, the Company has a system external auditing.
The Audit Committees terms of reference extend of control procedures and compliance with these procedures is to the Groups risk management activities as a whole and not just the monitored through a system of internal review.
Any significant issues financial aspects of internal control.
arising are reported to the Audit Committee for review.
All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with the During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to examine Chairman of the Audit Committee in the strictest confidence.
The how it obtains assurance that risks are managed effectively by Company has introduced a new whistle-blowing policy.
This provides the Company and the necessary internal controls are in place.
a confidential process through which all employees are able to report During 2002, the internal audit function, which is outsourced, has concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal control and other reviewed the overall assurance framework and has reported to the compliance issues in good faith without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Audit Committee has introduced a procedure for the iii External auditing receipt and monitoring of complaints relating to internal controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit i Financial reporting and non-audit services provided by the auditors, the cost The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Board strives to present a balanced and understandable assessment the auditors, the Audit Committee has put in place new procedures of the Companys position and its prospects and endeavours to for the pre-approval of the provision of non-audit services by the present scientific and other price-sensitive information in a balanced auditors.
The Company publishes quarterly financial reports so that its Going concern basis shareholders can monitor the Companys financial position regularly.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable effectiveness of systems of internal financial control on a regular expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in basis.
This includes having independent access to the auditors operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the throughout the year in addition to presentations from the auditors on directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely financial statements.
examined and are reported to the Board with recommendations for action.
During 2002, certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act came into force in the US.
In line with these requirements, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have formally certified that the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles and fairly represents the financial condition and results of the Company.
ii Internal control In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets and in accordance with the Turnbull Committees guidance on internal control, the directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The directors believe that the Company has applied this principle during the year under review and up to the date of signing these accounts.
However, there are limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of the signing of the accounts.
In particular, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the schedule of risks faced by the Company.
This includes analysis of the impact of the operation of key risks and the action being taken to avoid or reduce each risk.
In particular, the schedule of risks allocates responsibility for management of each key risk to senior executives.
