Corporate governance Combined Code Board members are provided with all relevant remuneration packages.
This includes establishing The board of directors is responsible for, and information on a timely basis in order to enable the the targets attached to the performance-related committed to, the maintenance of the highest board to discharge its duties effectively.
The element of executive directors remuneration and standards of corporate governance throughout the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all for the granting of options under the groups share group and fully supports the principles laid down in directors are properly briefed on issues arising at option schemes.
A separate report on directors the Combined Code on Corporate Governance board meetings.
remuneration is included on pages 66 to 69. the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are implemented and reports All directors have access to the advice and services The Nomination Committee meets as and when on the groups compliance with the Codes of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for necessary, and at least once a year.
ensuring that board procedures are followed.
responsibilities include consideration of candidates for board nomination, re-election to the board of Board of directors Newly-appointed directors who do not have any those directors retiring by rotation and succession The board of directors is responsible for the group's previous public company board experience are planning.
The committee is chaired by Ross Sayers strategic direction, the establishment of policies and provided with relevant training on their role and and comprises the non-executive directors and Bo internal controls and the monitoring of operational responsibilities.
Subsequent training is available to Lerenius.
all directors on an as needed basis.
Any director may also take independent professional advice, at Relations with shareholders The board currently comprises seven nonthe groups expense, in furtherance of his duties.
The board is committed to maintaining good executive directors and two executive directors.
Other than The non-executive role of Chairman is separate All directors are subject to re-election at intervals of during close periods, the Group Chief Executive from the executive role of the Group Chief no more than three years.
and the Group Finance Director maintain a regular Executive, and there is a clear division of dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout responsibilities between the two.
On 16 April 2002, Board committees the year.
The group also encourages communications Ross Sayers succeeded Sir Keith Stuart as nonThere are three main committees of the board.
with private shareholders throughout the year and executive Chairman following Sir Keiths retirement.
welcomes their participation at shareholder Biographies of all board members are provided on The Audit Committee is responsible for keeping meetings.
Institutional shareholders and analysts pages 22 to 23. under review the scope and results of the audit, its are invited to presentations by the executive cost-effectiveness and the independence and directors immediately after the announcement of The executive directors operate within clearly objectivity of the auditors, particularly in the context the groups half-year and full-year results.
These defined limits of authority and must refer any of the nature and extent of any non-audit services are subsequently made available on the groups matters outside these limits to the board for its they provide to the group.
The committee meets at website.
The groups non-executive directors least twice a year and its terms of reference also bring wide and varied commercial experience to the include the review of the annual and interim financial In addition to the half-year and full-year results boards deliberations and fully participate in the statements before they are approved by the board announcements, the company also issues resolution of matters reserved for the board.
They and the monitoring of internal and external audit trading statements in advance of entering its are all considered to be independent of functions.
close periods and provides an indication of management and free from any business or other trading at the time of the Annual General Meeting relationship that could materially interfere with their The committee may, as appropriate, meet the AGM.
All board members attend the AGM and, independent judgement.
groups internal and external auditors without the in particular, the chairmen of the Audit, groups management being present.
The Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committees are The board meets eight times a year in the normal Committee is chaired by Derek Sach.
Its other available to answer questions.
Resolutions are course of business.
Board meetings are held both members are Aubrey Adams, Tim Bowdler and proposed on each substantially separate issue at head office and at the group's port locations Andrew Simon.
and the agenda at the AGM includes a resolution around the UK.
The schedule of matters reserved adopting the groups Annual Report & Accounts.
for the board includes annual budgets, strategic The Remuneration Committee is chaired by George Notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at plans, reporting to shareholders, approval of Duncan, the Deputy Chairman and senior least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details acquisitions and divestments, approval of major independent director, and comprises all the nonof the proxy votes for and against each resolution capital expenditure projects and consideration of executive directors.
The committee is responsible are announced after the result of the hand votes significant financing.
for setting all the elements of executive directors is known.
64 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The groups Annual Report & Accounts, Risk management These reports also comment on existing risks and preliminary and interim announcements, trading As recommended in the guidance on internal specifically identify any emerging risks along with statements and press releases are available on control issued by the Turnbull Committee, the actions being taken to manage them.
Risks such its website, www.
Whether a group has in place a risk management working as health and safety and the environment are further shareholder or not, all of these communications group, comprising senior executives and chaired monitored by written reports submitted to the board from the company can be received in electronic by the Group Finance Director, for the purposes of on a regular basis.
form by e-mailing pr@abports.
identifying the major risks facing the group and formalising the groups risk objectives and risk The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Going concern management processes.
The recommendations of Director and senior operational and financial After making enquiries, the directors believe the risk management working group are reviewed managers meet on a regular basis.
These meetings that the group and the company have adequate and updated annually and have been adopted by allow for discussions of particular issues affecting resources to continue in operational existence the board.
each business unit, including their major risks.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The groups overall risk management objective is The group maintains a comprehensive annual preparing the financial statements.
to take such strategic and commercial risks so as to planning and management reporting system.
enable it to grow the business through a thorough A detailed annual budget is prepared in advance of Internal control understanding of the risks and responses required each year and is supplemented by revised forecasts The board acknowledges that it has overall for success.
The definition of risk for the group is an during the course of the year.
In addition, a threeresponsibility for the group's system of internal uncertainty or event that could, unless effectively year strategic plan is updated annually.
Actual financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
managed, significantly affect Associated British results are reported monthly and compared to budget, The board takes regular account of the Ports Holdings PLCs ability to achieve its current or revised forecasts and prior-year results.
All of these significance of social, environmental and future objectives.
reports are reviewed by the board for approval.
ethical matters in assessing the appropriateness of the groups system of The group has identified four major risk Comprehensive procedures provide for the internal control.
Significant social, ethical and management objectives: appraisal, approval, control and review of capital environment-related risks and opportunities To ensure that the health and safety of its expenditure.
These are incorporated within clearly which could impact on the groups shortand employees and other persons is not put at risk defined reporting lines and limits of authority.
long-term value are identified, assessed and by its undertaking: addressed appropriately.
The group has in place To continue to avoid disasters or catastrophes The internal audit function supports the directors in effective systems for managing all significant by managing those physical and other risks that assessing the effectiveness of internal controls at each risks and the board has received adequate have the potential to significantly damage the business unit through a pre-agreed audit programme.
information throughout the year in making this financial position of the group, its reputation or Where weaknesses in controls are reported, corrective assessment.
Further information on the its ability to provide services: action is taken and, where appropriate, communicated groups management of social, ethical and To identify, assess and prioritise opportunities to other operating units to encourage and enhance environmental matters will be provided in its to grow the business having regard for the need best practice around the group.
first separate report on corporate and social to manage the groups commercial risks: responsibility, due to be published during 2003.
In operating its business, to endeavour to meet Every year, each operating unit completes a control the demands of trade while having due regard self-assessment questionnaire that measures and The groups system of internal control is for the potential impact of its activities on the assesses risk areas and principal controls.
This designed to manage rather than eliminate environment.
questionnaire is part of the risk management process risk in achieving business objectives.
While and is reviewed by internal audit.
The results, which the system is subject to regular review and The group aims to manage risk wherever possible are presented to the Audit Committee, complement updating, it should be recognised that such by embedding processes and ensuring controls to the existing internal and external audit procedures.
systems can provide only reasonable, and manage risk are inherent in day-to-day operations.
not absolute, assurance against material To this end, monthly reports received by the Group Compliance with the provisions of the Code misstatement or loss.
During 2002, procedures Chief Executive from the operating units cover key The board considers that the company has fully were in place throughout the group to ensure aspects of the business such as commercial complied with the Codes provisions since 17 May compliance with the report of the Turnbull matters, health and safety issues, personnel issues, 2002.
Before that date, the company did not comply Committee.
financial results and future business prospects.
1.7, which concerns directors' notice periods.
