Close company provisions Statement of Directors responsibility The Board The company is not a close company within the in relation to the accounts The Board of SkyePharma PLC is responsible meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act The Directors are required by law to prepare for the Groups system of corporate governance 1988, and there have been no changes since the financial statements for each financial period and internal control and is ultimately accountable end of the year.
which give a true and fair view of the state of for its activities throughout the world.
The Board affairs of the Company and the Group as at the comprises three Executive and seven Non-executive Annual General Meeting end of the financial period and of the profit or Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief At the Annual General Meeting to be held on loss for that period.
The Directors confirm that Executive are distinct and are held by different 28 May 2003, the Company proposes to seek suitable accounting policies have been consistently people.
The role of Non-executive Directors the usual authority to issue shares and limited applied and supported by reasonable and prudent is to bring independent judgement to Board disapplication of the statutory pre-emption judgements and estimates as necessary: applicable deliberations and decisions.
The Executive and rights on the issue of new shares.
The Company accounting standards have been followed, and Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement also proposes to ask Members to approve the the financial statements have been prepared by rotation and re-election by shareholders Remuneration Report of the Company.
on the going concern basis.
in accordance with the Articles of Association whereby one third of the Directors retire by A separate letter from the Chairman explains the The Directors are responsible for ensuring the rotation each year.
reasons for these resolutions, and also contains maintenance of proper accounting records, which the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial All Directors have access to the advice and position of the Company and the Group at any services of the Company Secretary and are able, Auditors time and from which accounts can be prepared to if necessary, to take independent professional Following the conversion of our auditors comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also advice at the Companys expense.
Directors  to a Limited Liability responsible for ensuring the operation of systems receive induction and on-going training as Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, of internal control for safeguarding the assets appropriate.
The Board meets regularly  resigned on 31 January of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to throughout the year.
It has a formal schedule of 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise  LLP as auditors.
A delegates specific responsibilities to committees, resolution to reappoint  The financial statements for the year ended as described below.
LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed 31 December 2002 are included in the Annual at the Annual General Meeting.
Report 2002, which is published by the Company The Board considers all of the Companys Nonin hard-copy printed form and on the Companys executive Directors to be independent with the By order of the Board website on the Internet.
The Directors are exception of Mr Yamamoto by reason of the responsible for the maintenance and integrity of business relationship between Kowa Company Douglas Parkhill the Annual Report on the website in accordance Limited, of which he is a director, and the Group.
Company Secretary with UK legislation governing the preparation and 2 April 2003 dissemination of financial statements.
Access to Board Committees the website is available from outside the UK, where The Group Executive Committee is responsible comparable legislation may be different.
for the executive management of the Group.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and comprises Ian Gowrie-Smith the Executive Directors and other Senior Managers.
Executive Chairman The Committee generally meets monthly and 2 April 2003 informs the Board of key issues via the Chief Executive Officer.
The Audit Committee reviews the half year and full year results and the Interim and Annual Report and Accounts prior to their submission to the Board and considers any matters raised by the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and also pre-approves all permitted non-audit expenditure incurred with them.
Mr Walter Zeller chairs the Committee.
It meets formally at least twice a year with the external auditors in attendance.
report of the 36 directors continued statement of directors responsibility in relation to the accounts corporate governance SkyePharma annual report 2002 SkyePharma annual report 2002 The Remuneration Committee meets at least The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of twice a year and approves the remuneration of internal financial, operational and compliance the Executive Directors and Senior Executives controls and risk management as they operated and is responsible for the policy and operation during the year.
The Board receives regular of the SkyePharma Share Option Schemes.
reports on areas of significant risk to the Company, The Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Beavis.
and on related internal controls.
In addition to its The Remuneration Report is presented on pages consideration of these reports the Board reviews 38 to 48 of the Report and Accounts.
annually the overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
Such a system can provide only The Nomination Committee considers and makes reasonable and not absolute assurance against recommendations to the Board on the appointment material misstatement or loss.
of Directors and proposes which Non-executive Directors should be invited to retire, having regard Going Concern to the changing needs of the Board as a whole.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a Mr Ian Gowrie-Smith chairs the Committee.
reasonable expectation that the Group and the The Committee meets as required.
Company have adequate cash resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The members of the Audit Committee, For this reason, they continue to adopt the going Remuneration Committee and Nomination concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Committee are detailed on page 35.
Relations with shareholders Accountability and control The Company is committed to ongoing SkyePharma operates, and attaches importance communication across the shareholder base, to, clear principles and procedures designed to whether to institutional investors, private or achieve the accountability and control appropriate employee shareholders.
This is achieved through to a science-based business operating annual and interim reports, other trading internationally in a highly regulated business sector.
com contains corporate and SkyePharma has established an organisational customer information updated on a regular basis.
structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority.
All The Combined Code Group employees are required to adhere to In June 1998, the London Stock Exchange issued the specified codes of conduct, policies and final version of the Principles of Good Governance procedures.
The identification and appraisal of and Code of Best Practice the Code.
risks is carried out through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets and The Group is committed to the highest standards through the close monitoring of operations.
During 2002 the Board considers that the Company complied with all Financial results and key operational and financial relevant principles and provisions of the Code performance indicators are reported regularly covered by the annual report and accounts.
throughout the year and variances from plans and budgets are investigated and reported.
The Group Walter Zeller has a system of high-level financial control Chairman, Audit Committee procedures which are supplemented by detailed 2 April 2003 procedures at each operating entity.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored by the corporate office supplemented by external audit.
