Corporate governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of Shareholders corporate governance and considers that the company The group issues summary financial statements in place of has complied throughout the year with the Combined full annual accounts unless shareholders request the latter.
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance.
The summary financial statement is received by over 90% The Board of shareholders.
At the half year, an interim report is sent The Board meets regularly during the year and is to all shareholders.
A copy of the full annual accounts is responsible for the strategic direction, policies and overall available on the Smith & Nephew website along with press management of the group.
There is a clear division of releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts.
responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
There are regular dialogues with individual institutional The Board consists of an independent non-executive shareholders, together with results presentations twice a Chairman, two executive directors and six independent year.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to non-executive directors.
All directors have full and timely question directors at the AGM and the company regularly access to all relevant information and independent responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Non-executive directors meet regularly without management in attendance and appropriate Risk management & internal control induction programmes are offered to new directors.
The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the groups systems of risk management and internal control and for The Board is assisted by the following committees: reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process has been in place for the full year identifying, evaluating and managing The Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors key risks through a Risk Committee which reports to the the operation and effectiveness of internal financial controls Board annually, and by a system of functional reports to and ensures that the accounts meet statutory and other the Board and the review of internal financial controls by requirements.
It selects, determines the fees and reviews the Audit Committee.
the performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors.
All non-audit work is pre-approved by These procedures are designed to identify and manage the committee.
those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the groups objectives.
Whilst they do not provide The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive the directors, following a review of the systems described directors and members of the Group Executive Committee, are of the opinion that proper systems of risk management approves their main terms of employment and determines and internal control are in place within the group.
share options and long-term incentive arrangements.
It also reviews management succession planning.
Share capital The company has been informed of the following interests The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee in its ordinary share capital as at 7 February 2003: oversees plans for Board succession and recommends appointments to the Board.
AXA Investment Management 9.0% Fidelity 7.1% The Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Legal & General Investment Management 3.4% Committee assists the Chief Executive in the management of the group.
At the AGM, the company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase its own The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and shares.
No shares have been purchased or contracted for Nominations Committees may be found at www.
smithor are the subject of an option under the expiring authority.
Auditors Membership of Board committees and of the Group Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness Executive Committee is shown with the biographical to continue as auditors and a resolution proposing their details of directors on pages 10 and 11. reappointment will be put to the AGM.
Directors All directors are subject to re-election every three years, and in accordance with the Articles of Association, Dudley Eustace and Peter Hooley retire by rotation and, being eligible offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Timothy Lankester will be retiring at the AGM but will not be offering himself for re-election.
No director had a material beneficial interest in any contract involving the company or its subsidiaries in 2002.
