Corporate governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in section 1 of the Combined Code and appended to the Listing Rules, as described below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report.
The Board The Board of Directors comprises eleven Directors of whom nine, including the Chairman, are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board has four scheduled meetings a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
The Board has established three Committees, as described below, each having formal terms of reference approved by the Board which comply with the Cadbury Code of Best Practice.
Each Directors specific committee memberships are set out on pages 28 to 29.
The Companys Directors strictly abide by their legal and ethical duties owed to the Company to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Board has identified those non-executive Directors it considers to be independent in accordance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code and will review this in the context of any relevant changes enacted to the Code.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of three non-executive Directors and is responsible for recommending for approval by the full Board the remuneration of the executive Directors and senior management of the Company and Group.
Details of the Committees policies and objectives are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 35 to 40.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises six non-executive Directors and meets at least three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer and a representative of the external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
At least once a year the Committee meets with the external auditors without executive Board members present.
Its primary responsibilities are to review the effectiveness of the Companys and Groups systems of internal control, to review with the external auditors the nature and scope of their audit and the results of that audit, to review risk management processes, to evaluate and select external auditors and to review the annual and interim financial statements before they are submitted to the Board.
The Audit Committee has specific responsibility for advising the full Board on compliance with the Combined Code, including its internal control requirements, as well as compliance with evolving guidance on corporate governance issues generally.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises all non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations for the appointment of Directors for consideration and approval by the Board, and meets as required.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an open and active dialogue with shareholders.
At a minimum, the Company provides three personal communication forums annually the Annual General Meeting, presentation of Annual Results and presentation of Interim Results whereby shareholders can directly interface with Company executive management.
The Company maintains an internet web site wherein important information can be posted and disseminated promptly to a wide audience and through which shareholders can electronically interface with executive management.
32 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 The Board has assigned a senior executive the responsibility for investor relations and has employed an outside agency both to provide assistance in the dissemination of information to shareholders and the general public and to actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of such efforts.
Additionally, the Company maintains an ongoing, active dialogue with institutional shareholders, specifically and pro actively seeking opportunities for face to face meetings at least twice a year, coincident with mid term and full year results, between fund managers and Company executive management.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of a sound system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information and to safeguard the shareholders investment and the assets of the Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations in any system of internal control, even a sound system can only provide reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the Company will not be hindered in achieving its business objectives or be protected against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has put in place formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority and has delegated to executive management the implementation of material internal control systems.
Documented policies and procedures are in place for key systems and processes and the authority of the Directors is required for key matters.
A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for all items of expenditure and an annual budget is approved by the Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a regular basis.
Revised forecasts for the year and longer term financial projections are produced regularly throughout the year.
The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the Company and Group and developing appropriate policies to manage those risks.
The risk management approach is used to focus attention on the Groups most significant areas of risk and to determine key control objectives.
The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Combined Code, by establishing an ongoing process, which has been in place throughout the year to the date of this report and which is in compliance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which is constantly evolving to meet the demands of a dynamic environment.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is reviewed at least annually by the Directors.
The review is based principally on discussions with management and reviewing reports provided by management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, but also may include independent interaction with employees or third parties.
Further, the Board considers whether appropriate actions are promptly taken to correct any significant weaknesses identified and if more extensive monitoring may be required.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts which considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period and are satisfied with the process employed and the results thereof.
The Audit Committee spearheads the Board in discharging its 33 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Corporate governance continued review responsibilities.
Although the Company does not currently have an internal audit function, the Directors review at least annually the need to establish such a function.
Statement of compliance with Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Directors responsibilities Accounts, including adoption of going concern basis Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Other matters The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors responsibilities The auditors responsibilities are set out in the Independent auditors report on page 41.
34 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
