Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Corporate Governance for the year ended 31 December 2002 It is the policy of the Board to seek to adhere to the best practices in corporate governance.
Set out below is a statement of the extent to which this policy was achieved in 2002, including statements on compliance with the Combined Code and the application of its Principles of Good Governance as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice In June 1998 the Committee on Corporate Governance published the Combined Code containing Principles of Good Governance and a Code of Best Practice.
The company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Application of the Principles of Good Governance The Principles of Good Governance contained in the Combined Code were applied as follows: Directors The activities of the company are controlled by the Board which currently comprises two executive directors and nine nonexecutive directors.
The non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of commerce.
The Board meets quarterly to review current and projected performance and to determine strategic issues.
The Board has established Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees which are discussed below.
All Board and Committee meetings were fully attended with the exception of one meeting of the Audit Committee at which Mr R H Hunting was absent.
The Board considers the following non-executive directors to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code: Mr R H Hunting, Mr G Montezemolo, Dr M J Peagram, Mr P J Welch and Mr P S Wood.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr A E Richmond-Watson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and Mr A Walker who has responsibility for the running of the companys business as Chief Executive.
In February 1998, following the acquisition of Holliday Chemical Holdings PLC, Dr M J Peagram, its former chairman, was appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman in recognition of his position as the senior non-executive director.
The directors receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed quarterly review of performance prepared by the Chief Executive.
The Chairman receives the minutes of the Executive Committee comprised of the divisional Chief Executives, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and chaired by the Group Chief Executive which meets once a month and all directors receive a monthly trading summary and commentary.
The Nomination Committee which is chaired by Mr R H Hunting and whose members are identified on page 20 makes recommendations to the Board regarding all new Board appointments, considers succession planning and has responsibility for the induction and training of non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee met twice during 2002.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three year terms and all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors aged over 70 are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Chairman periodically reviews the individual performance of each director.
Directors remuneration All matters relating to remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set out on pages 26 to 31.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and meetings take place following the announcement of interim and full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of private investors at the companys Annual General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions and the remits of the committees are available to shareholders.
The company makes use of its web site www.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year results, company announcements, share price and other investor information.
Accountability and audit An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements and a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 32 and 33 respectively.
The report by the directors that the business is a going concern and a report on the approach to internal control are set out overleaf.
The directors endeavour to make the annual report and financial statements as informative and understandable as possible.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Corporate Governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2002 24 25 The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr P. J. Welch and whose members are identified on page 20, has established a detailed remit regarding the application of financial reporting and internal control principles.
It meets periodically with the companys auditors to review the adequacy of the groups financial management, the internal controls and information systems.
The Audit Committees remit includes the review of the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors including the extent of non-audit services and fees payable to the auditors which is carried out and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis.
The current auditors were appointed in 2002 and details of audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2002 is set out in note 2.
Non-audit fees principally relate to taxation advice.
The Audit Committee met formally twice during 2002 and the Chairman of the Audit Committee had regular dialogue with the auditors during the course of the year.
Internal control The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the Combined Code requirements on internal control are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the group is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated.
The internal control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks faced by the group was developed and fully implemented in 2000.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes and information, and has been operated throughout 2002 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
During 2002, an external consultant was engaged to review the entire process and to recommend any changes that should be made.
As a result of this work, a series of pilot projects will be conducted during early 2003 in order to further improve the process, and the process will be changed accordingly before full deployment across the entire group.
The system is applied at all subsidiaries, and a bottom-up risk profile is created by evaluating the information at business, divisional and group level.
Senior managers with cross-functional responsibilities participate in the risk management process to identify and evaluate key risks.
The process relies on senior managers detailed knowledge and understanding of key internal and external risks facing their business.
This is based on formal management information and reports, and their interaction and daily dealings with those reporting to them, customers, suppliers and other parties.
Where a significant risk is identified, its causes, potential business impact and the planned risk control actions are reported.
Operational reviews are undertaken by the group Executive Committee on a regular basis, and one of the functions of those reviews is to identify key risks and initiate and monitor planned risk control activities.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process primarily relate to matters of an operational nature and the most significant of those which faced the group in 2002 are reviewed in the Chairmans statement and the divisional reports.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the groups business, always of the utmost concern and the safety, health and environment report on pages 18 to 19 reviews the groups performance in this connection in 2002.
A number of other risks have been identified from the process which arise from external influences such as: changes to UK regulation surrounding pension scheme funding and accounting: EU proposals for the legislative regime regulating the chemicals industry: and cost and capacity issues relating to the transfer of risk to the insurance market.
Plans have been formulated and implemented to deal with the impact of these matters in the short term.
However, they will require careful ongoing evaluation and management.
These are consistent with the risks identified in 2001.
The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the internal control system includes the following: A review of the external audit work plan: Consideration of reports from management and external parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: Quarterly review of safety, health and environmental performance: Discussion with management of the actions taken on problem areas for the business identified by Board members or in the audit report: Consideration of a consolidated risk management report setting out the main conclusions from the internal control process: In addition, the Board: Receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: Considers the role of the group insurance programme: Receives regular written and oral reports from management on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code the Board regularly reviews and approve the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
Social, environmental and ethical matters In October 2001 the Association of British Insurers ABI published guidelines on socially responsible investment which take the form of disclosure principles that institutional investors would expect to see in the annual report of listed companies.
These guidelines require statements on the extent to which social, ethical and environmental matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, assessed, managed and monitored particularly in relation to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of the company.
Environmental matters The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with health and safety protection is central to the companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the annual report for a number of years and the first of a series of stand-alone SHE reports was published in August 2000.
The SHE statement on pages 18 to 19 incorporates the ABI guidelines.
Social and ethical matters The Board does not regard social and ethical matters as a distinct subject for special review.
The companys system of internal control does, however, by virtue of its approach to risk identification, cover areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which the groups businesses operate and is supportive of local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated with social and ethical issues and has a group wide code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities.
The purpose of this code is to ensure that the groups employees have a clear understanding of the principles that are important in these areas when conducting the groups business.
