Directors responsibility for financial reporting and internal control Financial statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors report set out on page 59, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the directors to ensure that the financial statements for the end of the financial year and the Groups profit or loss for that financial year give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
In addition, the directors are responsible for the maintaining of accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of financial control and consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system of internal control and manages risk across the Group through risk management policies and procedure, the use of control self-assessment process and the Group audit department.
The risk management processes are designed to ensure that sound business practices and internal controls are embedded within the operation.
The risk-based internal control processes, including control self-assessment, are in place to help identify, evaluate and manage significant risks and to assess the effectiveness of the related internal control system.
In accordance with the Combined Code the directors review all the Group controls including operation, risk management and compliance, as well as internal and financial control on an annual basis.
There are clearly dened levels of responsibility and authority and appropriate reporting requirements throughout the Group.
The organisation structure includes the audit committee appointed by the Board, which together with the Group audit department and the Group Finance Director, has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control environment within the Group.
The audit committee meets regularly and comprises independent non-executive directors with responsibility to oversee the entire audit process and to review managements reports on internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
The audit committee has unrestricted access to both the internal and external auditors.
It meets with the external auditors at least once each year.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is considered periodically together with the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
In respect of non-audit work the audit committee ensures that the independence and objectivity of the auditor is maintained, taking into account the relevance of the skills and experience of the auditor for any given task and the fee levels.
A formal policy in respect of non-audit work setting the terms of engagement of the auditor is applied.
Following each audit committee meeting, the Chairman of the committee reports to the Board and minutes of such meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
This environment can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Group standards and guidelines and the control self-assessment process provide a control framework, with which the operating divisions comply while maintaining a system of control and procedures appropriate to their own business environment.
There is a comprehensive medium term planning and budgeting process leading to approval by the Board of annual Group budgets.
One, three and five year plans are prepared and risks and sensitivities analysed.
Under-managed risks are identied and remedial action taken.
Consideration of these plans then forms part of the annual review by the Board directors of the systems in place for assessing and managing major risks which may materially affect the business.
Monthly results, prepared by the operating divisions, are reported against the budget and the previous year and remedial action is agreed upon, as appropriate.
These systems were in place for 2002 and through the audit committee the Board has reviewed the Groups system of internal controls for the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The Group audit department has the responsibility for monitoring risk management and internal control processes.
The department assesses business risk, processes, procedures and the system of control within operating divisions and agrees with management their plans to improve control processes to minimise risk.
The department reports quarterly on the progress made by the operating divisions to the audit committee and annually to the Board.
Going concern The directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 31
