Strong customer relationships French hypermarketeer Auchan is an established customer.
When Auchan decided to outsource its logistics in Hungary to an international partner, it knew what was wanted and how it should be done.
We won a long term contract.
From a purpose built 35,000 sq m national distribution centre alongside our own, we supply all Auchan stores with 80% of their needs.
In an industry where some of our competitors count their customers in millions, our list is modest.
But our focus is on quality not quantity.
We work with the major blue-chip customers in our dened sectors the top 20-30 companies in each sector and tend to handle a high proportion of their logistics needs.
Because we understand the sectors they are operating in, our customers benefit.
Our business is based on long term contracts 75% of which are open-book giving us great transparency and resilience.
We have been working with Wal-Mart for a decade, with Sainsburys for two, and with Marks & Spencer for 30 years.
These are living partnerships that have required change and exibility.
We relate to our customers at different levels, and will take a pro-active role in managing their supply chain strategy, as well as their day-to-day needs.
Our commitment to serving customers was recognised in Datamonitors comprehensive benchmarking of European logistics, in which some 800 European companies took part, and put us in a clear first place across Europe for customer satisfaction, quality management and adaptability to customer needs.
We tailor the service we offer and translate our expertise for different customers as well as for different countries.
The needs of Tesco, Marks & Spencer and Sainsburys are as diverse as those of the UK and China.
But we also work with customers to transfer our skills from one market to another, and, for example, have grown with Procter & Gamble in the United States for three years and are now working with them in China, Mexico and Argentina.
10 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002
