TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Application of Combined Code Principles The Directors are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and this statement describes how the Principles of Good Governance set out in the Combined Code are applied.
The Board of Directors At 31st December 2002, the Board comprised five Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry combined with general business skills.
All of the Directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, key appointments and standards.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Mr R. Courtney.
The Board of Tullow Oil plc considers that all its Non-Executive Directors are independent.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and all the necessary information is supplied to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
The Directors have access to independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, if and when required.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for consideration by the Board and other matters are delegated to Board Committees.
The Board is committed to achieving a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and in March 2002 appointed Ms C. Spottiswoode and Mr S. McTiernan as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association require that one third of the Board must go forward for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting AGM each year, together with all new Directors appointed since the previous AGM.
In addition, the Articles state that all Directors should go forward for reappointment at least every three years.
The Board has appointed the following subcommittees: Audit Committee This Committee, which comprises the Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Mr R. Courtney Chairman, Mr E. Maleki, Mr P. Plunkett, Ms C. Spottiswoode and Mr S. McTiernan, reviews the interim and annual financial statements, internal control matters and the scope and effectiveness of the external audit.
The Finance Director and a representative of the external auditors normally attend meetings.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviews the necessity for the establishment of an internal audit function but considers that, given the size of the Group, the strengths of its systems and the close involvement of senior management, there currently exists no requirement for the implementation of such a function.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Committee are the Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Mr P. Plunkett Chairman, Mr R. Courtney, Mr E. Maleki, Ms C. Spottiswoode and Mr S. McTiernan and the Committee determines the Groups Executive Directors remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors fees are considered and agreed by the Board.
Nominations Committee The members of this Committee are the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, namely Mr P. Plunkett, Mr A. Heavey and Mr R. Courtney respectively.
The Nominations Committee considers the composition of the Board and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors.
30 TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Communications with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority in Tullow Oil and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general presentations at the time of the release of the annual and interim results.
The Group issues its results promptly to individual shareholders and also publishes them on the Companys website www.
Regular updates to record news in relation to the Company and also the status of exploration and development programmes are also included on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive news updates by e-mail by sending an e-mail to request@tullowoil.
A business presentation is provided at the Companys AGM and afterwards individual shareholders are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman and the Board.
In addition, the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with the Companys Irish shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Ireland, on the day following the AGM, to allow these shareholders similar access to the Board.
Internal Controls In September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups and the Companys systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups internal control procedures include Board, technical and financial approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, consider that the system of internal control operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date the financial statements were signed.
Compliance with Combined Code Provisions Throughout the year ended 31st December 2002, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Corporate Governance Developments The Directors have studied with interest the proposals put forward by the Higgs and Smith Reports for the reform of Corporate Governance, published in January 2003.
Upon the finalisation of the proposals and guidelines the Board will take steps to ensure early compliance or to identify any specific areas where immediate compliance may not be appropriate for Tullow.
