Statement on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles with institutional shareholders, although care The Board of corporate governance contained in the is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive The Board comprising eight members, Combined Code on corporate governance information is released at the same time to determines the strategic direction of the Group which is appended to the Listing Rules of the all shareholders, in accordance with the and reviews its operating and financial position.
Financial Services Authority and for which requirements of both the Financial Services The Board has a formal schedule of matters the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Authority and the London Stock Exchange.
specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the Board itself and which is The Board regards the annual general meeting Statement of compliance with reviewed annually.
The Board meets at least as an important opportunity to communicate the Code of Best Practice eleven times during the year.
Board members, Since flotation, the Company has been in including the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Directors compliance with the Code provisions set out in Nominations and Audit Committees attend the section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate Appointments to the Board are the meeting and are available to answer questions.
governance except for the following matters: responsibility of the full Board, on the In order that shareholders present are aware recommendation of the Nominations Section A.
The independent non of the other shareholders voting intentions, Committee.
All directors submit themselves executive directors constitute half, rather the details of proxy votes will be announced for re-election by rotation with one third of the than a majority, of non executive directors at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board may on the Board.
The independent non also, in accordance with Article 115 of the executive directors are Messrs. Scott, Allvey Companys Articles of Association, appoint a Board committees and Gibson.
The remaining non executive person who is willing to act as a director, either directors are Messrs. Mackenzie and Chotai The Remuneration Committee, the Nominations to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional who are directors of CVC and Cinven entities Committee and the Audit Committee are director, such appointment being only effective respectively, and Mr Brown.
standing committees of the Board.
until the next Annual General Meeting.
Mr Brown, although Non The Board comprises individuals with wide Executive Chairman, is not considered to Remuneration Committee business experience of various sectors of be independent as he was previously Chief The role and operation of the Remuneration industry.
They have access to all information Executive of the Group.
Although not Committee is set out in the Directors relating to the Group: the advice and services of considered independent, Mr Brown is a Remuneration Report on pages 14 to 18. the Group Company Secretary, and, as required, member of the Remuneration Committee.
external advice at the expense of the Group.
The independent non executive directors Nominations Committee consider that his guidance is important in There is a clear division of responsibility The Nominations Committee is chaired by assessing the performance of the executive between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Mr Scott and includes Messrs. Allvey and directors and other members of senior The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Gibson.
The Nominations Committees principal management, and therefore in properly directors are defined so as to give no individual function is to carry out a formal selection determining their remuneration.
process of candidates and subsequently to The Higgs Report published in January 2003 on propose to the Board any new appointments, Statement about applying the the Role and Effectiveness of Non Executive whether executive or non executive directors.
Principles of Good Governance Directors proposes significant changes to the The Company has applied the Principles of Combined Code.
The Board notes that following As part of this function, it considers the Good Governance set out in section 1 of the the Financial Reporting Councils acceptance of composition of the Board, the demands made Combined Code by complying with the Code these proposals a new version of the Combined on the Board and its committees and the of Best Practice as reported above.
Further Code will apply to reporting periods starting on requirements of good corporate governance.
explanation of how the principles have been or after 1 July, 2003 and hence will seek to The Nominations Committee meets as applied is set out below and, in connection with affect the transition to full compliance in the necessary but at least annually before or after directors remuneration, in the Directors light of emerging best practice.
regular meetings of the Board, to consider Remuneration Report.
Relations with shareholders The Board remains committed to maintaining good relationships with both institutional and private shareholders.
There is regular dialogue 19 managed.
It assesses the effectiveness of Audit Committee Assessment of business risk internal control systems on the basis of: The Audit Committee is chaired by A corporate risk matrix has been developed Mr Allvey and includes Messrs. Scott and and approved by the Audit Committee and the established procedures, including those Mackenzie.
It meets at least four times a Board.
The matrix records the key risks facing already described, which are in place to year and its principal functions are to: the business and assesses the likelihood of manage perceived risks: the risks crystallising and their potential review and advise the Board on the regular reports by management to the materiality.
Responsibility for management Groups interim and annual financial Audit Committee on the adequacy and of the risks is attributed typically at senior statements, its accounting policies and effectiveness of internal control systems management level.
on the controls operating over its financial and significant control issues: and business risks: the continuous Group-wide process for Internal audit review the nature and scope of the work to formally identifying, evaluating and Internal audit advise management on the be performed by the external and internal managing the significant risks to the extent to which systems of internal control are auditors, the results of that work and achievement of the Groups objectives: and effective: are adequate to manage business managements response: and risk: safeguard the Groups resources: and in presentations of the results of internal audits meet with the executive directors and conjunction with the Group Company Secretary, and work undertaken by other departments management, as well as privately with both ensure compliance with legal and regulatory to the Audit Committee.
It provides objective assurance of the Audit Committee reports the outcome The Groups internal control systems are on risk and control to senior management and of meetings to the Board.
designed to reduce, rather than eliminate, the the Board.
Following Sir Robert Smiths publication of his risk of failure to meet business objectives, and Internal audits work is focused on areas of report on audit committees and Combined Code can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, greatest risk to the Group, as determined by a guidance in January 2003, the Board notes the assurance against material misstatement or structured risk assessment process involving report proposes a new audit committee section loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable executive directors and senior management.
in the Combined Code, which is expected to assurance, the Board has regard to materiality The output from this process is summarised in relate to financial years starting on or after and to the relationship between the cost of, and an audit plan which is approved by the Audit 1 July, 2003.
The Board will seek to comply benefit from, internal control systems.
The head of internal audit reports with the revised Combined Code in the light The Board regularly reviews the actual and regularly to the Group Finance Director and of emerging best practice.
forecast performance of the business compared Audit Committee.
with the annual plan, as well as other key Internal control The role of the internal audit function and the performance indicators.
scope of its work continues to evolve to take The Board has overall responsibility for the Lines of responsibility and delegated account of changes within the business and Groups internal control systems and for authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups emerging best practice.
Implementation policies and procedures are regularly updated and maintenance of the internal control The Board is responsible for Group compliance and distributed throughout the Group as systems are the responsibility of the executive matters, and is advised in this respect by the well as reporting compliance to the Audit directors and senior management, and are Audit Committee, head of internal audit and Committee.
subject to periodic review which is documented.
The Groups internal audit department The Chief Executive and Nominations maintains a database recording the system Committee oversee the policies for employee Going concern of internal controls in every division or selection, advancement and development and department throughout the Group.
The The directors have prepared the financial have direct involvement in senior management performance of internal control systems is statements on a going concern basis consistent appointments.
Succession planning and reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
with their view, formed after making contingency arrangements operate for senior appropriate enquiries, that the Group is management and have been reviewed by The Board monitors the process by which operationally and financially robust.
critical risks to the business are identified and 20
