33 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance Compliance with the Combined Code Executive committee The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance The executive directors of the company meet formally at least nine throughout the group.
The board is accountable to the companys times each year, usually on the day before formal board meetings.
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes The committee addresses business issues and shares best practice how the board applies the principles of good governance set out thereby allowing the directors more time at board meetings to in the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the focus on strategy.
Audit committee The board The committee comprises the Chairman and two non-executive As at 31 July 2002 the board of directors was made up of 11 directors and has, since David Tucker stepped down on 12 April members comprising the Chairman, six executive directors and four 2002, been chaired by James Murray.
It meets at least twice each non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors are considered year.
Its role is to review the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of by the board to be independent of management and free of any the audit, the effectiveness of the groups internal control systems relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of and risk management procedures, and the form and content of the their independent judgement.
David Tucker stepped down from groups financial statements, compliance controls and accounting the board on 12 April 2002.
At the same time, James Murray was policies and practices.
The independence and objectivity of the appointed as a non-executive director and John Whybrow became external auditor is also regularly considered, with particular regard Deputy Chairman.
John Whybrow will succeed Richard Ireland to the level of non-audit fees.
when he retires at the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 28 and Remuneration committee 29.
The board met regularly during the year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision.
In addition, The committee comprises three non-executive directors.
The the board has established a procedure for directors to take, if Chairman of the committee is John Whybrow.
The committee is necessary, independent professional advice at the companys responsible for making recommendations to the board, within expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the agreed terms of reference, on the companys framework of access which every director has to the Company Secretary who is executive remuneration and its cost.
It also determines, on behalf charged with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The of the board, specific remuneration packages for each of the differing roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged executive directors and for the Chairman, and administers the and set out in writing.
companys share incentive schemes for senior employees.
The board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive The companys articles of association provide that one-third of the directors, having received recommendations from the directors retire by rotation each year and that each director will appointments and salaries committee.
The boards remuneration seek re-election at the annual general meeting every three years.
report is set out on pages 40 to 44.
Additionally, new directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Treasury committee It is board policy that non-executive directors do not generally The committee comprises the Chairman and one non-executive serve on the board for more than nine years.
In cases where it is director, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the proposed to exceed this period the director concerned will retire Group Treasurer.
Richard Ireland is the Chairman of the committee.
annually and offer himself for re-election.
Its role is to consider treasury policy, tax matters and certain transactions on behalf of the group within a framework delegated The board has established a number of committees, each of by the board.
which has formal terms of reference approved by the board and complying with the Combined Code to assist in the discharge of its duties.
Members of the various committees are shown on page 79.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all board committees.
34 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance Capital committee documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
As part of this review, each The committee comprises any two directors, one of whom must be business area and function has been required to identify and either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
It has defined authority document each significant risk, together with the mitigating actions to review and approve certain capital expenditure applications, implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on including acquisitions, and certain disposals.
the effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign bi-annual confirmations of compliance with key Appointments and salaries committee procedures and to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised results have been presented to The committee comprises any two directors of the company, one of senior management and to the audit committee.
The board has whom must be either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Its role reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control is entirely independent of that of the remuneration committee and for the year under review.
A summary of the principal control includes the review and recommendation to the board on the fees, structures and processes in place across the group is set out below.
and terms of engagement, of the non-executive directors.
Control structures Nominations committee Whilst the board has overall responsibility for the groups system of The committee comprises three non-executive directors and is internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness it has delegated chaired by Richard Ireland.
It is responsible for considering and responsibility for the internal control and risk management recommending to the board changes in the boards composition programme to the Group Finance Director.
The detailed review of and membership.
internal control and risk management has been delegated to the audit committee.
Internal controls The management of each group company is responsible for internal In a highly decentralised group, where local management has control and risk management within its own business, and for considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a ensuring compliance with the groups policies and procedures.
well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard Each group company has appointed a risk director whose primary shareholders investment and the companys assets.
The directors role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the groups with the groups risk management and internal control programme.
systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The external auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report by the group towards its risk management activities so as to Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, reinforce these internal control requirements.
an ongoing process has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the group.
This process has been Control processes in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
The systems are designed to The board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the basis, and approves group company budgets and strategies in light groups objectives, safeguard the groups assets against material of these.
Control is exercised at both group and subsidiary board loss, fairly report the groups performance and position and to level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best to budgets, forecasts and cash targets, and by regular visits to practice including that related to social, environmental and ethical group companies by the Chief Executive and Group Finance matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance Director.
Twice a year group companies approve and submit risk against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are regularly reports to the audit committee, summarising the key risks facing reviewed by the board to deal with changing circumstances.
A their businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks.
summary of the key financial risks inherent in the groups business These reports, together with reports on internal control and is given on pages 25 to 27.
Risk assessment and evaluation is departures, if any, from established group procedures prepared by an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business the groups external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the audit committee.
35 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance Group companies submit annual risk and internal control Internal audit representation letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on the control The board confirms that it has continued to review the need environment within their operations.
The Group Finance Director for a discrete internal audit function and that steps are now being summarises these submissions for the audit committee.
The taken to create this function within the group.
It is expected that chairman of the audit committee reports to the board on risk the internal audit function will be fully operational by 31 July 2003. management and internal control matters following each audit committee meeting.
Compliance statement The board has formal procedures in place for the approval of The company applied the principles set out in section 1 of the investment and acquisition projects, with designated levels Combined Code for the period under review and has, throughout of authority, supported by post investment review processes for the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein with selected acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
The board the following two exceptions: considers social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the groups businesses and assesses these when reviewing the The board has considered the nomination of a senior risks faced by the group.
The board is conscious of the effect independent non-executive director but believes that, given such matters may have on the short and long-term value the size and composition of the board, and the quality of the of the company.
boards independent non-executive directors, such a nomination is not appropriate.
The audit committee meets the external auditors at least twice a year without the presence of executive management.
The audit Following the introduction of a new directors bonus scheme committee also reviews issues of accounting policy and with effect from 1 August 2000, the pensionable salary of one presentation for external financial reporting and ensures that executive director includes his bonus up to a maximum amount.
an objective and professional relationship is maintained with the external auditors.
The external auditors attend the audit committee The auditors, , are required to review meetings and receive its papers.
whether the above statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for its The audit committee has also approved the introduction of a group review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reflect such policy under which the external auditors will not, as a general rule, compliance.
No such report has been made.
The external auditors will provide audit related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well New York Stock Exchange as formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The corporate governance requirements external auditors report to the committee any material departures from group accounting polices and procedures that they identify On 1 August 2002 the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. during the course of their audit work.
The external auditors will NYSE approved a set of measures to strengthen corporate often undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on accountability.
Whilst the company is not required to comply with tax matters given their knowledge of the groups businesses.
Such these measures as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply provision will, however, be assessed on a case by case basis so in all material respects with those standards.
The main areas of that the best placed adviser is retained.
The audit committee will non-compliance are set out below.
monitor the application of the policy in this regard and will keep the policy under review.
The NYSE standards require the majority of directors to be independent.
There are currently four independent directors on Wolseleys board.
Whilst the independent directors meet informally without management being present, this is not formalised.
The nominations committee will be comprised entirely of independent directors when Richard Ireland steps down from the board in December 2002.
The audit committee currently meets at least 36 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance twice a year and reviews annually the role of the external auditors.
Environment Under the new NYSE standards the committee would have the sole authority to approve audit fees, significant non-audit The principal activities of the Wolseley group involve the distribution engagement terms and to retain and terminate auditors subject of plumbing and heating products, building materials and lumber to shareholders approval.
The company is to introduce an products, and industrial pipes, valves and fittings.
The environmental internal audit function which is expected to be fully in place by impact of these distribution activities in themselves is low compared 31 July 2003.
There is no current group wide code of business to many other industries.
Nonetheless, the group recognises the conduct and ethics although each business has its own code.
The importance of environmental responsibility and the impact that its compliance statement referred to in the preceding section relates operations have on the environment, and believes strongly that solely to compliance with UK corporate governance standards.
good environmental practice makes good business sense.
Communications with shareholders Wolseley is in the process of considering the results of a benchmarking study, which has been undertaken in respect of The company places considerable importance on communication the groups principal European operations.
This will enable the with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The formulation of a more detailed environmental policy on a group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved basis and the development of a consistent set of group wide in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day environmental standards.
The study and formulation of group responsibility for such matters.
The Report and Accounts are policies will give added momentum to the environmental available to all shareholders.
Shareview is a new internet service programmes of each of the companies in the group, which offered by the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
already have their own policies, and will allow the company Shareholders can access their shareholder account and choose to to more effectively manage the process.
receive shareholder communications electronically, rather than by post.
Shareholders will Central to the groups success has been the high degree of need their shareholder reference number which is shown on the autonomy afforded to local managements, allowing them to serve enclosed form of proxy.
the markets in which they operate in the most appropriate manner.
Within this decentralised structure the board has set down a There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this number of environmental principles with which the groups has been extended to private shareholders through the annual businesses are required to comply.
general meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives.
The groups preliminary and interim results, as well as all The principles cover the integration of environmental management announcements issued to the London and New York Stock into business operations and a commitment to strive for continual Exchanges, are published on the companys website improvement, a commitment to prevent pollution, and a www.
The company issues regular trading updates requirement that all group companies comply fully with local to the market and these, together with copies of presentations to environmental legislation.
analysts and interviews with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, are posted on the website.
Notice of the annual general These principles are applied within the groups businesses in many meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days different ways.
The following examples are representative.
It is company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders Lumber are invited to the companys annual general meeting at which Wolseleys building materials distribution business in the USA, they have the opportunity to put questions to the board and it is Stock Building Supply, is scrupulous in sourcing its lumber from standard practice to have the chairmen of the audit, nominations second and third growth timberlands that are managed using best and remuneration committees available to answer questions.
As a market leader in the USA, it is well aware of Details of proxy voting are made available at the meeting and are its responsibilities towards the environment.
It is a central principle published on the companys website shortly after the meeting.
of the company that the products it sells are both top quality and provided by proactive stewards of forestry resources.
Stock Building Supply primary sources for lumber and wood panels are the major integrated producers in North America, which all have 37 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance sophisticated and accepted timberland management plans.
Smaller with corresponding reductions in vehicle emissions, vehicle wear suppliers must have a positive track record of providing quality and fuel costs.
products sourced from ethical producers, before being recognised as a potential supply line.
Donations Outside North America, Stock Building Supply suppliers include The groups charitable donations in 2002 totalled 648,899 companies such as Royal Mahogany of Costa Rica, which has an 2001: 711,555.
The group made no political donations.
exceptional reputation for sustainable management of hardwood plantations, and in Chile, a number of radiata pine moulding The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 defines producers who draw solely from managed plantation forests.
EU political organisations widely, and whose activities may form In addition, Stock Building Supply works closely with its supplier part of normal relationships between companies and the political partners to develop innovative composite components made machinery, even though such activities are not designed to affect of recycled and wood-substitute products, such as cement fibre public support for a particular party or influence support for sidings and trim and extruded PVC mouldings, and is active any party.
in promoting these products to its customers.
The group made no political donations in 2002 and does not make Waste management what are commonly regarded as political donations.
The group will In the UK, Wolseley Centers has now employed a specialist waste continue this policy.
The group may, however, need as part of its contractor to manage its waste output at its major distribution business to contact politicians and political parties within the EU sites.
Waste at these sites is divided into different streams, with on a non-partisan basis in order to make them aware of industry all cardboard, plastic and wood waste being sold for reprocessing, views, technology and trends.
In the UK, employees may serve as rather than sent to landfill.
Wolseley Centers is in the process local councillors who are permitted time off by their employer.
The of seeking proposals for similar waste management at all sites definitions of political donations and EU political expenditure have in the UK.
been drafted so broadly that some such activities may fall within the Act, even though they are not donations in the ordinary OAG in Austria has a similar waste management strategy operating sense of the word.
The Act requires companies to obtain across all sites.
Their , in place since late shareholder approval before such expenditure or donations in 1994, is an organisation wide programme that streams waste for excess of certain limits may be made.
The directors, therefore, collection and reprocessing by specialist contractors.
As well as propose on a precautionary basis, to seek authority for the group benefiting the environment, the programme generates significant to make donations and incur expenditure which they might cost savings for OAG, ranging between d0.2 million d0.3 million otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the per annum.
Among other things, the Act requires that this authorising resolution should not purport to authorise particular Environmental management donations or expenditure and requires any donations to EU political Wolseley Centers in the UK is currently reviewing and updating its organisations or any EU political expenditure in excess of 200 to environmental strategy.
The first two stages of this strategy are to be disclosed in the annual report.
The directors consider that the ensure that the policy reflects Wolseley Centers commitment and authority sought under the resolution to allow the company or its that there are systems and processes in place that ensure that the subsidiaries to incur this type of expenditure of not more than strategy exceeds that required for legal compliance.
The strategy 125,000 in total until the companys next annual general meeting will be continuously reviewed.
is necessary to ensure that, because of the uncertainty over which bodies are covered, the company does not unintentionally breach Transport the Act.
The policy of not giving any cash contribution to any Since early 1999, Ferguson in the USA has been using transport political party will continue.
The authority sought by Resolution 12 management software to optimise the movements of its delivery will last until the companys next annual general meeting.
The programme analyses incoming orders and the corresponding delivery locations, and designs runs with minimal mileage.
The number of miles travelled by its delivery fleet have reduced by 9% some 790,000 miles in this past year alone 38 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance Awards under employee share schemes Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the company, where possible, through participation in the companys Options were granted under the US Employee Share Purchase share schemes.
Priority is given to the training of employees and Plan in March 2002 to 3,274 US based employees in respect of the development of their skills is of prime importance.
Employment a maximum 530,169 ordinary shares exercisable at 597 pence per of disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the share.
Options were granted under the UK Employees Savings ability of any applicant to carry out the function required.
Related Share Option Scheme in June 2002 to 1,954 employees in Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the function respect of a maximum 650,894 ordinary shares exercisable at 562 required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee pence per share.
Options were granted under the Irish Sharesave becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered Scheme in June 2002 to 74 employees in respect of a maximum retraining.
The group continues to operate on a highly 24,890 ordinary shares exercisable at 562 pence per share.
This provides the maximum encouragement November 2001 options were granted under the 1984 and 1989 for the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous Executive Senior Executive Share Option Schemes over 88,200 and control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local 2,301,300, respectively, ordinary shares to senior employees of the managements are responsible for maintaining high standards group at an option price of 467 pence per share.
These schemes of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate are described on pages 42 to 44.
Details of the total options employee involvement in decision making.
outstanding at 31 July 2002 are set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Details of the awards under the Long Term Creditor payment policy Performance Related Incentive Plan for Mr Banks are on page 41.
All group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Employee policies and involvement conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the groups policy that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and, The group places particular importance on the involvement of its where applicable, consistent with the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Company Secretary bulletins, meetings and the companys internal website, on matters at the companys registered office.
affecting them as employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
A European Works Council was established in 1996 At 31 July 2002 the company had no trade creditors 2001: nil.
to provide a forum for consultation with employees on significant The amount of trade creditors for the group as at 31 July 2002 developments in the groups operations, managements plans and was equivalent to 46 days 2001: 47 days of trade purchases.
expectations, organisational changes within the group and for employee representatives to consult management about concerns Shareholder services over any aspect of the groups operations.
At the date of this report, there are 14 members comprising 10 employee Existing and potential UK shareholders may acquire shares in the representatives elected from among employees from each company through UK Individual Savings Accounts, which are European company.
Details are given on page 80 of Shareview, a service launched by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the companys Registrars, which allows shareholders on-line access to a range pension arrangements including the defined benefit pension of shareholder information.
Shareview provides access to details scheme, which has two individual and one corporate trustee.
The of shareholdings in the company and practical help on transferring Chairman of the trustees is Richard Ireland and all but one of the shares or updating personal details.
First time users will need to other directors of the corporate trustee are UK based employees of enter certain information and choose a PIN number before they the group.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered are able to access their shareholding details.
membership of their employing companies pension arrangements.
Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local environment, such as private medical cover.
39 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance CREST The companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Auditors  are willing to continue as auditors of the company and a resolution concerning their re-appointment and the determination of their remuneration is to be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 13 December 2002, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which has been sent to all shareholders.
