How we behave Directors report continued and the Group as at the end of the financial year and The following information, together with the directors of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In responsibilities and statement of going concern set out preparing those financial statements, the directors on pages 72 and 73 and the directors remuneration are required to: and interests in the share capital of the Company set nselect suitable accounting policies and then apply out on pages 79 and 80, constitute the Directors report.
them consistently: nmake judgements and estimates that are Substantial share ownership reasonable and prudent: and As at 14 May 2003, the Company is aware of the nstate whether applicable accounting standards have following interests of 3% or more in the issued been followed, subject to any material departures ordinary share capital of the Company: disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
WPP ESOP 4.97% The directors are responsible for keeping proper Morgan Stanley 4.73% accounting records which disclose with reasonable Franklin Templeton Investments 3.95% accuracy at any time the financial position of the Legg Mason 3.71% Company and enable them to ensure that the financial Putnam Investments 3.56% statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Legal & General 3.49% They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and consequently for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to other irregularities.
the respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests associated with them.
Share owner relations The Company has not been notified of any other Relations with share owners, potential share owners holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
and investment analysts are regarded by the Group as extremely important.
Re-election of directors The Group has a well-developed continuous program Details of the directors who, whether under the to address the needs of share owners, investment Articles of Association of the Company or otherwise, institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information are to retire and who offer themselves for re-election about the Company, its strategy, performance and are set out on page 70 and also in the Notice of Annual competitive position.
Given the wide geographic General Meeting.
distribution of the Groups current and potential share owners, this program includes regular visits to investors, Profits and dividends particularly by the Group chief executive and the Group The profit on ordinary activities before tax for the finance director, in the UK, Continental Europe and the year was 205.4 million 2001: 411.0 million.
major financial centres in North America together with The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of a more limited program in Asia Pacific.
The Company 3.67p 2001: 3.06p per share to be paid on 7 July 2003 also provides a quarterly trading update at the end of to share owners on the register at 6 June 2003 which, the first and third quarters in addition to semi-annual together with the interim ordinary dividend of 1.73p reporting required in the UK.
2001: 1.44p per share paid on 18 November 2002, The Company also maintains a website makes a total of 5.40p for the year 2001: 4.50p.
com providing investors with a The retained profit for the year of 25.5 million regular source of information.
Parent company charitable donations The Company made charitable donations of 210,000 2001: 205,000.
It is the Companys policy not to make payments for political purposes.
Further information regarding the Groups support of charities is set out in the section dealing with Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 75 to 77.
