How we behave Directors report continued the UK Listing Authority, the Securities Exchange Nomination committee Commission, and NASDAQ with which the The committee currently comprises both non-executive Company must comply: and executive directors.
The Company considers the nensuring systems are in place to monitor social, majority of the former including the chairman for this environmental and ethical issues other than those purpose to be independent.
The present members are: which are the responsibility of the Compensation Bud Morten chairman of the committee, Philip Lader, committee which may affect the Group: Christopher Mackenzie, Sir Martin Sorrell executive nestablishing procedures for the receipt and treatment and Beth Axelrod executive.
of concerns regarding accounting, audit and internal Since the last Annual General Meeting held in June audit matters, including confidential and anonymous 2002, the committee met once on a formal basis and submission by employees of such concerns.
also held a number of ad hoc meetings throughout the Revised terms of reference were adopted by the year.
All members attended the formal meeting, other committee in May 2003. than Christopher Mackenzie.
During 2002, the committee received advice from the Compensation committee Group general counsel and the Executive Compensation The committee comprises non-executive directors, whom Consulting Practice of Deloitte & Touche.
the Company considers to be independent and who are The role of the committee includes: nindependent under NASDAQs rules.
Throughout the reviewing the size, composition and effectiveness year the members were: Bud Morten chairman of the of the Board: ncommittee, Philip Lader replacing John Quelch monitoring the responsibilities of non-executive in April 2002 and Christopher Mackenzie.
directors, including the chairman: nIn 2002 the committee met six times on a formal approving the appointment of all directors and ensuring basis and also held additional ad hoc meetings the effectiveness of the process for Board succession: nthroughout the year.
All members attended the formal reviewing the effectiveness of non-executive directors meetings, except that John Quelch and Christopher and the performance of all directors who are offering Mackenzie each did not attend one meeting.
themselves for re-appointment, whether retiring by The committee received advice from the Company rotation or by reason of having reached the age of 70 executives and external advisors referred to in the or having served on the Board for a period in excess report of the Compensation committee on page 83. of nine years: nThe role of the committee includes: reviewing the effectiveness of the Audit and nsetting and reviewing the remuneration of executive Compensation committees.
directors and senior executives of the Company and Revised terms of reference were adopted by the of directors and senior executives of the operating committee in May 2003. companies.
Remuneration includes base salary, shortand long-term incentive programs, pension Internal control and other benefits: WPP operates a system of internal control, which nreviewing terms of employment including any is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the termination arrangements of executive directors and Combined Code and the guidance in the Turnbull senior executives of the Company and of directors Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities and senior executives of the operating companies: Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the nreviewing systems implemented throughout the Company has complied throughout the year with the Group to deal with matters such as employee Turnbull Report and has also complied with the harassment and discrimination: relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. nappointing and reviewing the performance of The Board has overall responsibility for the system external advisors to the committee and to the of internal control in the Group and has reviewed Company in relation to executive remuneration the effectiveness of the system during the year.
In the and human resources matters.
context of the scope and complexity of this system, Revised terms of reference were adopted by the the Board can only give reasonable, but not absolute, committee in May 2003. assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The impact of the Higgs Review, which is expected to be incorporated into the Combined Code, is referred to on pages 68 to 70.
