Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those Directors in office as at 31 December 2002 are given below: Ordinary shares as at Ordinary shares as at Name of Director 31 December 2002 Name of Director 31 December 2002 Executive Non executive Michael Davis 58,234 Willy Strothotte 0 Trevor Reid 16,180 David Rough 5,870 Santiago Zaldumbide 40,770 Ivan Glasenberg 0 Paul Hazen 40,470 David Issroff 0 Robert MacDonnell 51,370 Sir Steve Robson 0 Dr Fred Roux 2,181 In addition to the above interests in shares, certain of the Directors also have interests in the share capital of the Company in the form of options to subscribe for shares.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 76.
The following also served as directors during the period from incorporation on 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2002: Name of Director Date of Appointment Date of Resignation Instant Companies Limited 31 December 2001 31 December 2001 Brian Azzopardi 31 December 2001 25 February 2002 Benny Levene 31 December 2001 25 February 2002 Dr Reto Domeniconi 25 February 2002 1 June 2002 It is the intention of the Board of Directors to recommend the appointment of Ian Strachan as an additional non executive Director and a resolution in respect of his appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the resolution are given in the Notice to the Annual General Meeting and further details about Mr Strachan and his role within the Group are given in the Directors biographies on pages 54 and 55.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company, including the rights pertaining to each share class, are set out in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Under the Companies Act 1985, the Board is not able to allot shares except with the general or specific authority of the shareholders.
An ordinary resolution will therefore be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to authorise the Directors of the Company, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of US$42,100,166 equivalent to 84,200,333 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, being the lesser of the Companys authorised but unissued share capital and one third of its issued capital.
This represents 33.33% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 5 March 2003.
The authority extends until the earlier conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and the date 15 months from the passing of this resolution.
The Board does not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than for the purposes of the Companys employee share option schemes.
The Companies Act 1985 provides that, when equity securities are being issued for cash, such securities must first be offered to existing shareholders unless the Board is given a power to allot them without regard to that requirement.
A Special Resolution will therefore be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to empower the Board to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal amount not exceeding US$6,315,025 equivalent to 12,630,050 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, representing 5% of the Xstrata plc 59 directors report issued share capital without first offering such securities to existing ordinary shareholders.
The authority extends until the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and the date 15 months from the passing of this resolution.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Major interests in shares On 5 March 2003, the following major interests in the ordinary issued shares of US$0.50 each of the Company had been notified to the Company in accordance with Sections 198-208, Companies Act 1985: Name of Shareholder Number of ordinary shares of US$0.50 each % of ordinary issued share capital Glencore International AG 101,040,400 40.0% The Capital Group Companies Inc. 38,560,756 15.3% Standard Life Investments Limited 7,664,619 3.0% Fidelity Investments 7,639,144 3.0% Details of transactions between the Group and the shareholders detailed above are given in Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is the Companys policy that payments are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 31 December 2002, the Company had no trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Theater Casino Zug, Artherstrasse 2-4, 6300 Zug, Switzerland at 11.00am Central European Time, with a satellite meeting held concurrently at City Presentation Centre, 4 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4UP at 10.00am British Summertime on Thursday 8 May 2003.
The Notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders separately with this report.
Explanations of the items of special business to be considered at the meeting are given in the relevant sections of this report.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board Trevor Reid Finance Director 19 March 2003 60 Xstrata plc corporate governance report Introduction From the date of incorporation to 25 March 2002, the date of listing on the London Stock Exchange, Xstrata plc the Company was not subject to the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Following the listing on 25 March 2002, the Board has sought compliance with corporate governance best practice and this report details the steps that have been taken to achieve compliance with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code Subsequent to the listing in March 2002, the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as indicated below in regard to the independence of the three non executive Directors Willy Strothotte, Ivan Glasenberg and David Issroff, nominated by Glencore International AG Glencore, a substantial shareholder in the Company, the membership of the Remuneration and Audit Committees and the process for identifying and evaluating business risks which was only introduced during the year.
Application of the Principles of the Combined Code The Combined Code establishes 14 Principles of Good Governance divided into four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, Relations with Shareholders and Accountability and Audit.
The manner in which the principles have been adopted and applied by the Company is detailed below.
Directors The Companys Board of Directors currently has 11 Directors: comprising three executive Directors and eight non executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Ian Strachan was appointed as an independent external consultant to the Board with effect from 1 June 2002.
The shareholders will be asked to vote on his proposed appointment to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
If Ian Strachan is appointed, there will be nine non executive Directors.
Their biographies are set out on pages 54 and 55.
Of the existing eight non executive Directors, five are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and three, Willy Strothotte, Ivan Glasenberg and David Issroff are Directors of Glencore.
Willy Strothotte is Chairman, Ivan Glasenberg is Chief Executive and David Issroff is Head of the Ferroalloys Division, of Glencore International AG.
The Board has reviewed these associations and considers the industry expertise and experience of these Directors beneficial to the Group.
The non executive Directors possess a range of experience and are of sufficiently high calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Legal Counsel, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board is empowered to appoint and remove the Company Secretary.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, all Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and applies to Directors, senior management and relevant employees.
The Board is responsible for the Companys objectives and policies and providing effective leadership and control required for a public company.
The Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance and critical business issues and meets at least four times a year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom and the majority of meetings are held in Switzerland.
The non executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive Directors are fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information and briefing papers are distributed to all Directors.
Xstrata plc 61 corporate governance report The Board has three formally constituted Committees, each of which has formal terms of reference.
Audit Committee Following the resignation of Dr Reto Domeniconi on 1 June 2002, Sir Steve Robson was appointed the Chairman of this Committee.
Dr Fred Roux, a non executive Director is the other member.
Ian Strachan, an independent external consultant, whose appointment to the Board will be considered by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting, attends the meetings by invitation.
Pending Mr Strachans appointment, the Committee consists of only two non executive Directors which is not in compliance with the Combined Code but this would be rectified by the proposed appointment of Mr Strachan at the Annual General Meeting, after which the Committee will then consist of three non executive Directors.
The Committee meets no less than three times a year.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, the Group Controller, a representative of the Companys external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend the meetings.
Other Directors of the Company and senior management may also, on invitation by the Committee, attend and speak but not vote at any meeting of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management, internal control systems and the half year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and for monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors.
It also meets with the external auditors in the absence of management on a regular basis.
The Committee regularly reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets as required and is chaired by David Rough.
Its other members are Ivan Glasenberg and Robert MacDonnell, both of whom are non executive Directors.
The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure, has responsibility for nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and makes recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
Following the first Annual General Meeting of the Company, when all Directors will retire and seek re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors will be subject to re-election at least every three years.
According to the Companys Articles of Association, the Board does not have the authority to fill a casual vacancy and any new Director can only be appointed by the shareholders at the next general meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Companys Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its other members are David Rough and Paul Hazen, all of whom are non executive Directors.
As stated above, Willy Strothotte is chairman of Glencore.
The other members are independent.
The Committee meets at least once a year.
The Committee has responsibility for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for the Chief Executive, Finance Director and each of the other Executive Directors, including pension rights, bonuses and compensation payments.
Following the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange, the Committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board grants of options and share awards under the Xstrata LTIP.
The Committee utilises the services of KPMG as independent advisor on benchmarking and best practice.
Executive Committee In addition to the three Board Committees, an Executive Committee has been appointed by Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the plc Board.
It is chaired by Michael Davis and comprises executive Directors, Trevor Reid the Chief Financial Officer and Santiago Zaldumbide also Chief Executive of the Zinc business unit together with Peter Coates and Peet Nienaber, respectively the Chief Executive Officers of the Coal and Alloys business units.
Other members of the senior management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings as required.
The Executive Committee deals with a wide range of matters including the appointment of internal auditors, the approval of unbudgeted capital expenditure up to US$40 million, the approval of major acquisitions, disposals and mergers up to US$70 million, and initiating or defending litigation involving amounts of up to US$20 million.
It meets at least six times per year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
62 Xstrata plc For certain less significant Group management decisions, there are specific delegated authorities, but as with the Executive Committee itself, none of the relevant meetings are held, or decisions made, in the United Kingdom.
Directors Remuneration Details of remuneration paid to the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 76.
Share ownership The non executive Directors are given the opportunity to notify the Company what proportion if any of the post-tax amount of their fees for each year they wish to apply to acquire ordinary shares.
The price at which they may acquire these ordinary shares shall be the higher of the nominal value of the ordinary share and the exercise price which is set in respect of the next grant of options under the Xstrata LTIP following the notification.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places considerable importance on effective communication with shareholders.
All shareholders can obtain access to the annual report and accounts and other current information about the Company through the Companys website at www.
The Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 14 to 52 include a detailed report on the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcements of the year end results and at the half year.
Care is taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with London and Swiss Stock Exchange requirements.
The Board will use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman will aim to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are present at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution will be announced, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands, except for special resolutions, which must be voted on a poll.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2003 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
Accountability and Audit The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report and Financial Reviews contained in this Report.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in respect of the preparation of the accounts is set out on pages 77 and 78.
The Directors also set out on page 77 the basis of their view that the business is a going concern.
Internal Control Introduction The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the system of internal control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is the management of business risks that are significant to the fulfilment of Xstratas business objectives with a view to enhancing over time the value of the shareholders investment and safeguarding the assets.
The internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
Guidance for Directors on the internal control aspects of the Combined Code Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The Combined Code was published in September 1999 and is known as the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company did not comply with the Turnbull Guidance throughout the year.
However, subsequent to the listing in March 2002, an ongoing process, described more fully below, has been introduced for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
