6e DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2002 A The Directors report on the affairs of the Group, is presented below.
The Group financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2002 are presented Policy on payment of creditors within this document.
At 31 December 2002, the Group had an average of 178 days 2001 54 Principal activities and business review days of purchases outstanding in A review of the business and future developments of the Group is set out on pages 1 to 15.
The principal activities of the Group are the research, development, trade creditors.
manufacture and sale of vaccines to prevent and treat infectious diseases.
This number includes outstanding Results and dividends trade creditors payable to Baxter, The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 9.6m 2001 loss of 12.4m.
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend for the year 2001 nil.
In the year which, under the terms of our ended 31 December 2002, the Group generated revenues of 79.7m 2001 8.9m.
agreement with them, we are not required to pay until we have been Research and development R&D paid by the CDC.
Excluding these The Group incurred R&D costs of 16.3m 2001 12.6m during the year which have been written off to the profit and loss account in accordance with the Groups amounts payable to Baxter the accounting policy.
Group had an average of 66 days 2001 54 days of purchases 6a Directors and their interests outstanding in trade creditors.
The Directors who served during the year are shown on page 50.
The interests of the Directors in the Companys shares and options to purchase shares in the Company are shown in the remuneration report on pages 59 to 63.
At 31 December 2002, the Directors held an aggregate 698,092 shares, representing 0.71% of the current issued Other information capital.
None of the Directors had an interest in a contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was party during the year.
Information regarding the substantial shareholders of A Policy on payment of creditors Acambis, this years Annual General It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Group and its suppliers, Meeting, the appointment of the provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met.
At 31 December 2002, the Company had an average of 21 days 2001 19 days of purchases outstanding Groups auditors and special in trade creditors.
business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting is contained Corporate social responsibility within the shareholder information The Directors recognise the importance of corporate social responsibility and are in the process of reviewing current activities, formalising policies and preparing a section of this document on pages fuller report on our activities and commitments in this area.
We will report back to our shareholders on progress in our 2003 Annual Report.
Political and charitable donations During the year, the Group made contributions amounting to 880 2001 4,000 to local and national charitable organisations.
No political donations were made during the year 2001 nil.
Employees participated in various charitable fundraising activities during the year in aid of local and national charities.
Employees Acambis seeks to involve employees in its corporate objectives, plans, performance and on other relevant matters of interest to employees through various communication methods including regular Company meetings.
Employees of Acambis are not part of any labour unions.
The Directors consider there to be a good relationship between employees and management.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and does not discriminate in the recruitment and promotion of staff, including applicants who are disabled.
If an employee becomes disabled it is the policy, wherever practicable, to provide continued employment.
All employees are encouraged to share in the growth of the Group, being eligible to participate in share option schemes.
Health, safety and environmental issues In the UK, Acambis is a member of the British Safety Council and is committed to high standards and aims for continuous improvement in health, safety and environmental performance.
In the US, Acambis contracts with Mount Auburn Hospitals Occupational Health Service to provide medical surveillance, and prevention and treatment of workrelated injuries and illnesses, including administering of appropriate immunisations.
The Group has an excellent health and safety record and has never been required to report any accidents or injuries to the Health and Safety Executive in the UK or the Occupational Health and Safety Administration in the US.
The Group seeks to minimise the environmental impact of its activities.
Waste materials are recycled, where possible, and hazardous waste is handled by specialist disposal companies.
By order of the Board Elizabeth Brown, Company Secretary THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS COLUMN HAS NOT BEEN AUDITED.
51 27 March 2003 52 6c CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate governance focuses on the direction and control of companies and, in particular, the role of the Board of Directors and the need to establish a framework of effective accountability.
The following statement describes the main principles of corporate governance and how they have been applied by Acambis.
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, published by the Hampel Committee and the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of applying the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the remuneration report.
The BioIndustry Association Code of Best Practice BIA Code The BIA Code was introduced in 1999 and the Company has adopted this code since that time and applies it throughout the Group.
The BIA Code includes principles and provisions relating to corporate governance matters, access to external advice, confidentiality, dealings in a companys shares and standards of public announcements.
It is intended to operate by reference to the particular circumstances of bioscience companies in support of the Combined Code, Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, the Turnbull Report and the rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The BIA Code was obligatory for all BIA members from 1 January 2000.
The Company, being a member of the BIA, complies with the principles in the BIA Code and maintains and develops procedures to support compliance with its specific provisions.
The Board and Committees Board of Directors The Board of Directors meets, on average, six times a year and also on an ad-hoc basis as required.
It is responsible for the business and commercial strategy, monitoring progress, the approval of major transactions, and the approval of financial statements and operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The information provided to the Board includes strategic and operational reviews, management accounting summaries and ad-hoc reports which provide details in respect of the ongoing running of the business.
The Executive Directors of the Company are fully involved with the management of the Group at all levels, retaining overall direction and control of the Group.
The Board delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the Group to a number of committees, details of which are set out below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is made up of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, except Victor Schmitt, and is chaired by Michael Lytton.
It examines and reviews, on behalf of the Board, internal financial controls, financial and accounting policies and practices, the form and content of financial reports and statements, compliance with corporate governance best practice, and the work of the external auditors.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors may be in attendance at meetings.
The Audit Committee meets, at a minimum, four times a year and at least once during the year without any Executive Directors present.
The Nasdaq National Market in the US is currently revising its corporate governance standards to comply with provisions of the recently adopted Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the US.
Acambis will undertake a review of its compliance with the corporate governance standards and audit committee requirements once Nasdaqs revised rules are finalised in order to ensure Acambis compliance with Nasdaqs requirements.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, except Victor Schmitt, and is chaired by Alan Dalby.
It determines, on behalf of the Board, the Groups policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer attends the meetings except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside and outside the Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 56 to 63.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, except Victor Schmitt, and is chaired by Alan Smith.
It has responsibility for proposing to the Board, in the first instance, any new appointments of both Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer may be in attendance at Nominations Committee meetings.
Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee is made up of the Executive Directors and several other members of the senior management team.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, meets on a fortnightly basis and is responsible for the executive management of the Group.
It makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Communication with shareholders The Board attaches high priority to communications with shareholders.
In addition to our obligation to provide an Annual Report and financial statements, we also send quarterly results statements to all shareholders.
The Directors meet regularly with institutional shareholders and there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the Group has an Internet website www.
All of the Groups press releases, as well as other information on the Group including the current share price, can be accessed through the website.
Internal controls The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place since the start of 2000.
The process in place is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2000, the Group established a working committee specifically tasked to review and evaluate the risks to which the business is exposed.
This committee is made up of members of the Executive Directors of the Board as well as certain members of senior management, all of whom assume different operating responsibilities within the business.
Each member participates in the ongoing risk-management process and, ultimately, its findings are reported to the Board.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based, principally, on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the need to have an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
As of the date of this Annual Report, based on the assessment of the Board of Directors, there were no changes in the Groups internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.
Based on their review during the 90-day period prior to the date of this Annual Report and Form 20F of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Groups current disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that material information by the Group is recorded, processed, summarised and reported in a timely manner and that the information is accumulated and communicated to management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
