Corporate Governance 22: Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Code of Best Practice During the year the company complied with section one of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code other than the composition of the Remuneration Committee which included Paul Reichmann, who is executive chairman, and Michael Price who is not an independent non-executive director.
Since the year end Paul Reichmann has ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The manner in which the Principles of Good Governance have been applied is set out below, and in the Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 82.
The Board This statement should be read in conjunction with the biographies of the directors on pages 31 to 32 detailing the composition of the committees.
The board comprises three executive and seven non-executive directors.
The board considers that with the exception of Michael Price, Gerald Rothman and Andrew Tisch the non-executive directors are free from any business or other relationship with the group which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement and are therefore independent.
Sir Martin Jacomb is the senior non-executive director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive.
As chairman, Paul Reichmann is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the group and as chief executive, George Iacobescu is responsible for operational control including implementation of all development, construction and maintenance projects.
The board meets at least four times a year and has formally adopted a schedule of powers which are reserved to the board.
The board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment by the board.
Subsequently they must seek re-election at least every three years so that shareholders have a regular opportunity to reassess the composition of the board.
All directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are able to seek independent professional advice at the expense of the company if required in connection with their duties.
The Committees Remuneration, Audit and Nominations committees have been established with formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Michael Price, is responsible for reviewing the performance of the executive directors, setting their remuneration packages and agreeing compensation policies for the group.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 79 to 82.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and is chaired by Sir Martin Jacomb.
The meetings of this Committee are attended by the companys external auditors who have direct access to the chairman.
In addition to reviewing the conduct and control of the external audit, the Committee monitors the operation of the system of internal control and the measurement and reporting of the financial performance of the group.
It also reviews the appointment of the auditors and agrees the audit fee before recommendation to the board.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Corporate Governance :23 The Nominations Committee is chaired by Andrew Tisch and has responsibility for making recommendations on appointments to the board.
Powers not reserved to the board are delegated to the Executive Committee consisting of the executive directors.
Auditors On 10 April 2002 it was announced that the partners and staff from the UK offices of Arthur Andersen would join Deloitte & Touche.
This transaction was subject to regulatory approval from the European Commission which was granted on 1 July 2002.
As a consequence on 31 July 2002 the companys incumbent auditors Arthur Andersen resigned and Deloitte & Touche were appointed in their place.
In accordance with section 394 of the Companies Act 1985, Arthur Andersen have confirmed that there are no circumstances connected with their ceasing to hold office which they consider should be brought to the attention of the companys members.
A resolution to approve the appointment of Deloitte & Touche will be considered by the members at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Internal Control The board is responsible for the maintenance by the group of a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In establishing this system the directors consider the nature of the groups business and risks arising therefrom, the materiality of such risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control and mitigation of likely losses.
Any such system can, however, only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the scope and effectiveness of the groups system of internal control is reviewed on a regular basis by the board and by the Audit Committee and specifically for the purpose of these financial statements.
These reviews assess not just risks relating to financial reporting, compliance and the safeguarding of assets but also risks which are critical to the success of the business including social, environmental and ethical issues.
Details of how the groups environmental policy has been translated into objectives and targets and their assessment and independent verification are included in the Environmental and Social Policy statement on pages 25 to 30.
Detailed reports considering major areas of risk as well as the findings from regular assessments are presented to the Audit Committee at each of its meetings.
Control Environment: The company is committed to the highest standards of business conduct.
The group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring operations in order to achieve the groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are documented.
Formal policies and procedures are in place, including a code of conduct to foster a strong ethical environment.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Corporate Governance 24: Corporate Governance Risk Identification: Each area of business management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks arising from their specific business fields.
This system is subject to the regular assessment process in terms of new and evolving risks, and analysis of the potential impacts and of those affected by such risks.
To ensure that the groups approach is shared by all employees, on-going training programmes addressing issues such as health and safety and environmental management are in place.
Full and integrated risk appraisals are presented and considered by the board.
The companys risk management system is therefore subject to continual review and evolution as a result of the challenges arising from its business.
Information and Communication: Regular business reviews are conducted as part of the planning process which include an evaluation of financial and social risks and the systems of control adopted.
In addition regular reports are made to the board on, inter alia, the progress of development projects, working capital requirements and forecasts.
The executive directors are closely involved in the operational matters of the group.
Financial Control Procedures: The groups financial controls incorporate a management reporting system which compares results with the plan and the previous year to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
A documented organisation structure with clearly defined limits of delegated authority ensures that no commitments are entered into without proper authorisation.
Monitoring and Corrective Action: There are clear and consistent procedures in place for monitoring the system of internal control on behalf of the board.
Currently all business areas are reviewed on a regular basis and self certify that controls are suitable and operational.
Reports setting out the results and where appropriate making recommendations are received by the board and Audit Committee.
In relation to environmental and health and safety issues pages 25 to 30 detail the management systems established by the group.
The directors consider that the groups activities and the concentration in one geographical location do not at present warrant the establishment of a separate internal audit function.
The Audit Committee and the board will continue to monitor the need for such a function as the business develops.
Relations with Shareholders The company is committed to maintaining good communications with its shareholders.
Institutional shareholders and analysts are invited to briefings by the company at the time of announcing the interim and full year results of the company.
At the annual general meeting shareholders are given the opportunity to question the board and the chairmen of the various committees.
The company also maintains a website www.
com from which reports and other publications can be downloaded.
Results and presentations and other significant news are also available as they happen and as an archive on the website.
The constructive use of technology for communication with shareholders is continually evaluated and implemented as appropriate.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002
