Corporate governance Application of principles As required by the Combined Code, summarised below are the ways in which the principles of corporate governance are applied by the company.
The board Composition of the board The board currently consists of four executive and seven non-executive directors and their biographical details are summarised on page 75.
M Grabiner was appointed a non-executive director on 15 August 2002.
There have been no other changes to the board since 1 January 2002.
The chairman is E Bernerd and the managing director is WN Hugill.
Sir Bruce MacPhail is the senior independent director.
In formulating the board committees, regard has been taken of the public statements by various shareholding bodies on the criteria for the independence of non-executive directors including, in particular, the joint statement made by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds in July 1999.
The board continues to consider all its non-executive directors as independent.
A nomination committee, responsible for the selection and approval of board members, was established on 16 May 2002.
The members of the committee are E Bernerd, Sir Bruce MacPhail and Lubna Olayan.
Directors are required to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are then required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years.
Workings of the board The board meets at bi-monthly intervals and an agenda and a detailed set of board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings.
A number of matters, including major investment expenditure, nancing matters and dividend policy, are reserved for its approval.
On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive explanation of the groups business.
Visits to the groups activities and meetings with senior management are encouraged.
Given the background and experience of the board, it is considered that they do not require formal training on appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and there is an established procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the companys expense.
Directors remuneration A detailed report on  and terms of service is given on pages 25 to 30.
Accountability and audit The company has an audit committee which has been chaired throughout the year by Sir Bruce MacPhail.
MHA Broke and BJ Webb have also been members throughout the year and M Grabiner was appointed a member on 9 December 2002.
All members are non-executive directors.
The committee meets at least twice a year with the external auditors and monitors the controls established to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
It also reviews the financial statements before submission to the board.
20 Internal control The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group which has been in place during 2002 and up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the guidance of the Combined Code.
In particular, the board has identied the following key areas of risk which are subject to regular review by the board or the audit committee.
i Financial Financial reporting There is a comprehensive financial planning and reporting framework.
Financial forecasts are produced on a regular basis and presented to the board for review.
There is also an in-built system of comparing actual results with the forecasts and the variances being explained and acted upon, if necessary.
Control procedures are documented and monitored and the results are presented to the audit committee.
Project appraisals Detailed appraisals are undertaken for all development and investment projects and all require director approval.
Expenditure or commitments over a specified level require the approval of the board.
Construction costs are monitored on a regular basis against cashow forecasts and project appraisals so that any necessary remedial action can be taken as soon as possible.
Treasury operations The group uses a combination of xed rate loans and interest rate swaps to reduce its sensitivity to interest rate uctuations to an acceptable level.
The proportion of borrowings that are at xed rates varies but is maintained within limits set by the board.
The xed interest period is matched to the term of the relevant income stream taking account of market rates quoted at the time.
Assets denominated in currencies other than sterling, such as properties held in the USA, are nanced by borrowings in those currencies so as to minimise the groups balance sheet exposure to foreign exchange movements.
Other exposures to foreign exchange are hedged with forward contracts where possible to x the rate at which these amounts are converted into sterling.
21 Corporate governance continued ii Risk management Risk overview Group strategy is updated and reviewed at each board meeting and, as previously stated, all projects are subject to detailed analysis.
Specic risks are identied at both an operating and financial control level and are notied to the audit committee together with suggested action.
Areas considered to contain greater risk are given higher priority.
A clear organisational structure has been established with dened roles of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Investments in joint ventures The company undertakes a significant proportion of its activities through a number of joint venture operations and in all cases the company has board or partnership representation.
In some cases, it also undertakes the principal management functions.
Environmental and community As explained on page 18, two directors hold specic responsibility for the groups policies towards community relations and the environment.
A separate report covering these issues is set out on pages 23 and 24.
Health and safety Health and safety standards are reviewed on a regular basis with the assistance of external specialists and there are procedures to ensure that all aspects of the groups activities are adequately covered.
Going concern After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts, taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the directors are satisfied that the group has sufficient resources to enable it to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors believe it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relations with shareholders The company has an open approach to dealing with its shareholders and, having regard to its status as a listed company, tries to accommodate all requests for information and meetings whether individual or collective.
The company can also be contacted through its website, details of which are set out on page 77.
Arrangements are made for the notice of the Annual General Meeting to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Private investors are encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the chairman of the audit committee and the remuneration committee is also present.
Statement of compliance The company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 with the following exceptions: i The company did not have a nomination committee until 16 May 2002 as the board as a whole was previously responsible for the selection and approval of board members.
ii Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms.
They are, however, required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
22 Environmental and community activities In April 2002 the company produced an Environmental and Community Regeneration Report that set out the groups approach to environmental and social issues.
This separate report will be produced biannually, with up-dates in the companys Annual Report and on the companys website.
The report established the policy parameters and subsequent objectives that govern the groups environmental strategy.
Underlying these is the recognition that, particularly with its large-scale urban regeneration projects, the group can be a catalyst to positive change within an area by creating new high quality environments as well as bringing economic and social benets.
It is the groups intention to be a leader in both elds, to recast the role of the property development industry and define models of good practice.
Environmental statement The group recognises the strong synergy between a healthy and high quality environment and commercially and socially vibrant places.
For property investments to retain and increase in value, it is paramount to ensure that they are well maintained and to invest in enhancing the quality of local environments.
The group is, furthermore, keen to ensure that the economic success of any location should not be achieved to the detriment of the environmental health of neighbouring areas, the wider surroundings and the worlds resource base.
Environmental management is considered to be a core business issue.
The environmental policy has been endorsed and is actively supported by the board.
Properties are operated and managed efficiently in order to reduce resource consumption and waste production.
Formal environmental management procedures are implemented locally at individual properties.
The groups most significant property asset, Merry Hill, has been reporting publicly on its environmental management and performance since 1999 see the Merry Hill website at www.
co. uk and has won a number of awards for the way in which the site is operated.
In accordance with the strategy set out in the Environment and Community Regeneration Report in 2002, the group is gathering data of the most significant environmental impacts arising from its property investment portfolio with a view to benchmarking itself against industry standards where possible and reporting publicly on environmental performance in the future.
At a corporate level, the key activity that has taken place during 2002 and into 2003 has been the development of standard environmental clauses for inclusion in design briefs and tender documents in order to formalise further the standards required from its advisors and contractors.
All building managers and development managers will shortly be issued with environmental manuals setting out the implementation procedures that accompany the environmental policy and including detailed environmental checklists for distribution to suppliers.
At a project specic level, the new BREEAM Retail method has been tested on Merry Hill and the group is in the process of applying the draft assessment method to the White City design.
On the Stratford City project, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment has now been completed as part of the planning application.
This has optionally included a full energy assessment for the development.
In addition to the environmental statement, an environmental sustainability framework has been developed for Stratford and is being submitted in support of the planning application.
Community regeneration statement The group is involved in five major urban regeneration projects: Bankside, Paddington Waterside, Stratford City and White City in London and Merry Hill in the West Midlands.
Around each of these a clear programme of community regeneration activity and involvement has been developed.
The most advanced is Merry Hill, which now publishes an annual detailed sustainable development report.
23 Environmental and community activities continued In the last year, the group has produced a community engagement strategy for Stratford City that identies the mechanisms to realise community benefit.
A planned approach is in operation at Paddington, White City and Bankside identifying the key areas for group involvement.
The model has also been expanded to other group interests with a community engagement strategy being produced for Chelsea Harbour.
Fundamental to the groups model is engagement with key stakeholders to develop a solid basis for future partnership working.
This engagement with stakeholders is a major source of information about the needs and aspirations of surrounding communities.
Particular examples of the last year include: Paddington building on the work to establish Paddington Regeneration Partnership: Bankside further engagement in Bankside Business Partnership and Better Bankside: White City initiating a White City employment steering group: Stratford City full socio-economic impact analysis, which has enabled the development of a comprehensive regeneration report and also an integration strategy, which are being submitted in support of the planning application: and Brierley Hill an innovative scheme of customer champions which received the 2003 Purple Apple Merit Award.
In addition the company initiated the Brierley Hill Partnership bringing together stakeholders to realise shared aspirations for the area.
In order to realise the groups regeneration ambitions, integration with existing programmes and initiatives is key.
At Paddington and Bankside, the activities of the group have extended and complimented Single Regeneration Budget Programmes around piloting Business Improvement Districts.
With the range of projects, the group has been able to create models of good practice applicable to one scheme and then to adapt and recongure them to the needs and specic conditions that apply elsewhere.
Particular innovative examples include the following: Paddington First, a job brokerage scheme established by Paddington Regeneration Partnership and Job Centre Plus, has become an exemplar of good practice arranging over 2000 people into work over the last two and a half years.
The group is the primary private sector funder and continues an active role in the management and development of the project.
To emphasise the importance of education, in 2002 the group proposed to Westminster City Council the creation of a new secondary school sponsored by the group.
The proposal is now supported by the council and has gained ministerial approval to go forward to the feasibility stage.
Westbourne Green Academy will create a new model for delivering education, utilising the groups expertise at developing high quality buildings and engaging future occupiers at Paddington Basin.
