Report on corporate governance 20 21 Pillar Property PLC The company is committed to high standards of corporate Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally The groups management structure has clearly delegated governance.
It has complied throughout the year, with the constituted with written terms of reference.
Mr M C Stoddart authority levels, functional reporting lines and accountability.
Combined Code issued by the UK Listing Authority relating to is Chairman of the Committee: the other members being the The group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial the principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
reporting system, allowing management to monitor financial A summary of the companys procedures, for applying The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and and operational performance on a continuing basis and the principles and the extent to which the provisions of more frequently if required.
Its primary task is to review the to identify and respond to business risks before, and as, Section 1 of the Combined Code have been complied with, half yearly and annual accounts, focusing in particular on they arise.
accounting policies, compliance, areas of management Key elements of the internal control system include a list of During the year ended 31 March 2002 and at the date of judgment and estimates.
It also acts as a forum for matters reserved for approval solely by the board.
Such items this report, the board operated as follows: discussion on internal control issues and reports to the include approval of major transactions, control over capital board on the effectiveness of the groups system of expenditure, acquisition and disposal of major fixed assets, The board The company is run by an effective board, which internal controls.
borrowing limits and treasury policy.
The board must also leads and controls the group.
The board comprises three approve all major contracts and those that involve material executive directors, including the Chairman, and four Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is ongoing business risks, liabilities or commitments.
They all bring a wide range of specifically charged with determining the companys policy on Responsibility for maintaining an appropriate relationship experience and skills to the company.
It meets at least once a with the groups auditors and their various other business Directors are required to retire by rotation every three years year and comprises all non-executive directors and is chaired departments is vested in Mr H J M Price, Finance Director.
and, if appropriate, put themselves forward for re-election.
by the senior non-executive director Sir Derek Hornby.
The appointment of the auditors is formally considered on an Directors over the age of 70 must seek re-election annually.
Full details of each directors remuneration, including share annual basis.
All executive directors are appointed with notice periods of options and bonus payments, are set out in note 7.
Whilst any system of internal control can provide only termination not being greater than one year.
The roles of reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Internal control The Combined Code has introduced the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly requirement that directors review the effectiveness of all misstatement or loss, the board places reliance on adherence defined.
Three of the non-executive directors are independent to the companys control framework and has reviewed the internal controls and not purely internal financial controls.
from management and have no commercial or other The directors operate the company in accordance with its effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Due to its size, connection with the company.
The fourth, Mr J M Mara is a the group does not currently have an internal audit function Articles of Association, which set out the overall operating senior officer of General Electric Pension Trust, which is a framework of the group.
The board acknowledges its although this matter is reviewed annually.
major shareholder of the company.
responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal control, The full board meets six times a year on a formal basis Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet which safeguards shareholders investment in the company and is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form institutional shareholders and analysts after the announcement and controls the companys assets.
The system of internal and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its of the interim and final results, and on other occasions as control is designed to meet the companys particular needs duties.
The executive directors meet weekly: they focus on appropriate, to ensure the companys objectives and strategy and risks to which it is exposed, and by its nature it can only major transactions, business growth, strategy, cash are well understood.
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against management, financial performance and control.
The directors appreciate the importance of private material misstatement or loss.
A formal procedure exists to allow directors to take shareholders in the company and use the companys Within the financial and overall objectives for the group independent professional advice and the company will meet Extraordinary General Meetings and Annual General Meetings that are agreed by the board, the management of the group such reasonable expenses that arise in taking such advice.
as further opportunities to communicate with private investors.
as a whole is delegated to the executive directors.
The board All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his The number of proxy votes is disclosed at general meetings.
reviews the groups strategic direction.
The board reviews periodically the risk profile of the group The approval and appointment of directors is a matter for and considers the effectiveness with which it is managed.
