qxd 5 3 03 3:50 pm Page 74 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is concerned with how companies are Risk Director.
GRC also oversees a number of subcommittees: directed and controlled and in particular with the role of the principally the Group Credit Committee GCC which oversees Board of Directors and the need to ensure a framework of high-level credit policies and exposures and the Group Market effective accountability.
Risk Committee GMRC which reviews and oversees market risk policies and controls within the Group: both of these committees Combined Code meet monthly.
The Group Operational Risk Committee GORC This statement, together with the Remuneration report, set out meets six times a year and reviews and monitors operational risk on pages 78 to 86, explain how Abbey National has applied the exposures within the Group.
The Risk Committees in Business principles of good practice in corporate governance set out by the Divisions report into GRC and its subcommittees as appropriate.
Financial Services Authority in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board, at its regular monthly meetings, reviews in detail the Abbey National has complied with all the provisions of Section 1 minutes of GRC.
of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board 2002 except during the period between 19 July and 21 October members receive sufficient and timely information regarding when, due to the departure of the Group Chief Executive, the roles corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their of Chairman and Group Chief Executive were temporarily combined.
The adequacy of this information is periodically reviewed.
The Board All directors have access to the advice and services of the At 31 December 2002, the Board comprised a Chairman, five Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure executive directors, including the Group Chief Executive, and six whereby directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their independent non-executive directors, who bring a wide range duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys of skills and experience to the Board.
The roles of Chairman and expense.
The Company Secretary is also charged with ensuring Group Chief Executive are separated and clearly dened, except that all new Board members are equipped to full their duties during the aforementioned period, 19 July 21 October 2002, and responsibilities.
As part of the early familiarisation programme, when these roles were temporarily combined.
The Chairman new non-executive directors are encouraged to meet the executive is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the directors individually and engage in an induction programme of Group Chief Executive for the running of the business and visits to different areas of the Group.
implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Group Chief Non-executive directors are appointed for a three year term Executive is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day after which their appointment may be extended upon mutual basis by the Group Executive Committee, which he chairs and agreement.
It is envisaged that the maximum term for a nonwhich meets weekly and comprises his direct reports.
All the nonexecutive director under this regime is unlikely to exceed nine executive directors are independent of management and free from years.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, any business or other relationship which could materially interfere one-third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They make a but over a three year period all directors must have retired from significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby the Board and faced re-election.
The Companys Articles of helping to ensure that no one individual or group dominates the Association also require that a director must retire at the first Boards decision-making process.
The Board met on 12 scheduled Annual General Meeting after their 70th birthday.
occasions during 2002, including a separate session specically devoted to the long term strategic direction of the Group.
During 2002, Divisional Executive Committees were in place for each The Boards focus is on strategy formulation, policy and control.
of the three value centres, Retail Banking, Wealth Management and A corporate governance framework has been adopted by the Long Term Savings and Wholesale Banking, to strengthen divisional Board, which identies its roles and responsibilities and how these management and control.
Key issues from these committees are also are discharged.
Within this framework there is the High Level reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Framework of Delegation, a formal schedule of matters that identies which decisions are reserved for the Board and how Committees of the Board and which decisions are delegated.
The Board maintains three standing committees, all of which operate within written terms of reference.
Their minutes are circulated for Risk management in banking continues to be critical and the review and consideration by the full complement of directors, Board devotes appropriate time to considering the significant risks supplemented by oral reports from the committee chairmen.
The Group Risk Committee GRC plays an important role by monitoring and controlling the level Audit Committee of Group structural balance sheet risk.
It meets monthly, is chaired Keith Woodley Chairman by the Group Chief Executive, and its membership comprises all Leon Allen his direct reports plus two executive managers including the Group Richard Hayden 3b-Corp governance AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:50 pm Page 75 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 75 The Audit Committee met seven times in 2002.
Membership The Nomination Committee meets when necessary and at least once in each year.
The Nomination Committees primary function of the Audit Committee is restricted to independent non-executive directors.
They have a wide variety of skills and experience including is to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board investment banking, commercial and senior management and appointments and also to advise generally on issues relating to Board composition and balance.
It met four times during 2002. accounting expertise.
The Chairman is a chartered accountant and a previous President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants The number of full scheduled Board meetings and committee in England and Wales.
meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: The Audit Committees primary tasks are to review the scope Personnel and Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination of external and internal audit, to receive regular reports from Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Deloitte & Touche and the Chief Internal Auditor, and to review Luqman Arnold appointed the preliminary results, interim information and annual financial 21 October 2002 3 statements before they are presented to the Board, focusing in Leon Allen 12 7 3 particular on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of Lord Burns 12 4 management judgement and estimates.
The Audit Committee Richard Hayden 12 7 3 more generally acts as a forum for discussion of internal control Stephen Hester appointed 13 May 2002 7 issues and contributes to the Boards review of the effectiveness Yasmin Jetha 12 of the Companys internal control and risk management systems Malcolm Millington 12 and processes.
The Audit Committee also conducts a review of Peter Ogden 11 8 the remit of the internal audit function, its authority, resources Mark Pain 12 and scope of work.
The Companys relationship with the external Vittorio Radice 10 auditors is monitored by the Audit Committee and a framework for Lord Shuttleworth 12 8 3 ensuring auditor independence has been adopted which defines Keith Woodley 11 7 4 unacceptable non audit assignments, pre-approval of acceptable non-audit assignments and procedures for approval of other nonRelations with shareholders audit assignments.
Abbey National values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Effective two-way communication with fund Personnel and Remuneration Committee managers, institutional investors and analysts is actively pursued Lord Shuttleworth Chairman and this encompasses issues such as performance, policy and Peter Ogden strategy.
During 2002, Abbey National directors held meetings Leon Allen with 118 institutional investors whose combined shareholdings The Personnel and Remuneration Committee met eight times represented over 42% of the total issued ordinary share capital in 2002.
Membership of the Personnel and Remuneration of the Company.
Committee is restricted to non-executive directors.
Its principal Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual function is to monitor the human resource policies of the Group to General Meeting at which the Chairman presents a review of the ensure they are consistent with the Companys business objectives results and comments on current business activity.
It is charged with recommending to the full of the Audit, Personnel and Remuneration and Nomination Board the Companys policy on executive director and executive Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting management remuneration.
The Personnel and Remuneration to answer any shareholder questions.
Committee determines the individual remuneration package of This years Annual General Meeting will be held on 24 April 2003. each executive director.
The Remuneration report, including details The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is in plain of individual directors remuneration packages, is to be found on English, is circulated more than 20 working days before the pages 78 to 86.
Meeting and Abbey National will continue its practice of proposing Nomination Committee only unbundled individual resolutions.
Lord Burns Chairman Lord Shuttleworth Pension funds Keith Woodley The assets of the Companys main pension schemes are held separately from those of the Group and are under the control Richard Hayden appointed a member of the committee for of the trustees of each scheme.
The four Abbey National pension the selection of Group Chief Executive only.
schemes have a common corporate trustee which, at 31 December Luqman Arnold to be appointed to the committee.
2002, had nine directors, comprising six Company appointed 3b-Corp governance AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:50 pm Page 76 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued directors two of whom were directors of the Company together The Board confirms that an on-going process for identifying, with three member-nominated directors.
evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual The National and Provincial Pension Fund has a different corporate Report.
This process has been subject to regular review by the trustee, the Board of which at 31 December 2002 comprised three Board and accords with the guidance contained in Internal Company appointed directors and three member-elected directors.
Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued The Scottish Mutual Assurance SMA plc Staff Pension Scheme by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in and The Scottish Provident Institution SPI Staff Pension Fund September 1999.
During the year, steps have been taken to embed made changes to their trustee arrangements during 2002.
As at internal control and risk management further into the operations 31 December 2002, the SMA Staff Pension Scheme provides for of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come a maximum of six trustees, of whom four trustees are selected to the Boards and managements attention.
The key elements of by SMA two of whom are members and two trustees are elected this process are as follows: by the members.
In the case of the SPI Staff Pension Fund, the trustee arrangements in force as at 31 December 2002 provide for Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Group a maximum of eight trustees, of whom five trustees at least one Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic of whom is a member are selected by Scottish Provident Limited, framework, which is refreshed during the year through a series as principal employer of the Fund: the remaining three trustees of strategy conferences.
Annually, each value centre produces a are elected by the active members from their number.
three year plan to reect and respond to the strategic challenges facing the Group.
The consolidated three year plan is approved With the exception of The SPI Staff Pension Fund, asset by the Board.
Detailed financial and operating plans are management of the schemes is delegated to a number of fund developed for the year ahead and monthly reports are provided managers and the trustees receive independent professional to the Board covering actual performance against plan, analysis advice on the performance of the managers.
Asset management of significant variances, and scrutiny of key performance of the SMA Staff Pension Scheme is through a Trustee Investment indicators by the Groups finance function.
Account invested in units of SMAs Pooled Managed Fund.
Assets other than petty cash of The SPI Staff Pension Fund are invested Financial risks credit, market, liquidity, insurance and residual in a Managed Fund policy held with Scottish Provident Limited.
value and operational risks are considered on behalf of the Board by the Group Risk Committee GRC and its sub committees as Legal advice to the trustees of the various schemes is provided by described in The Board section above.
The Board reviews the external rms of solicitors.
The audits of Group Pension Schemes minutes of GRC in detail and in addition receives half yearly are separated from that of Abbey National.
The audits of the Abbey reports from the Group Risk Director, and annually considers National pension schemes and the National and Provincial Pension financial risk scenarios.
Fund are undertaken by Grant Thornton.
The audits of the SMA Staff Pension Scheme and SPI Staff Pension Fund are undertaken In addition there are a series of specic reports produced for the by KPMG Audit Plc.
Board covering various aspects of operational risks and reporting on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Going concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has The Group Executive Committee manages the business on adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable a day to day basis and the divisional directors are responsible future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt a going concern for embedding risk management and control in accordance basis in preparing the financial statements.
with the corporate governance framework.
A key feature of the risk management framework is the Internal control segregation of duties between the customer facing divisions, The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system and the Group infrastructure divisions.
Together with other of internal control covering financial, operational and compliance responsibilities, the Group infrastructure divisions define controls and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness standards and guidelines which enable Board policies to be throughout the Abbey National Group.
Such a control system can translated into operational practice and also measure and only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material monitor the overall risk exposures.
misstatement or loss, and is designed not to eliminate risk, but to enable the Group to achieve its corporate objectives within a managed The Board has established a process for reviewing the effectiveness risk prole.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and of the system of internal control through reports it, and the board policies for risk and control, whilst management is responsible for committees, receive from the executive risk committees and designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control various independent monitoring functions including Group Risk, processes to implement Board policies effectively.
Internal Audit and Group Compliance.
The Audit Committee, as 3b-Corp governance AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:50 pm Page 77 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 77 described above, makes an important contribution to this assurance process.
Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance that the processes by which significant risks are identied, assessed and managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
Internal and external audit utilise common protocols to report and escalate significant exceptions and Internal Audit follow up all significant exceptions until satisfactory resolution by management.
In addition, the self-certication process requires management throughout the Group to attest to compliance with the risk standards to confirm the effectiveness or otherwise of their risk management and control processes.
The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the overall risk management and control arrangements on 21 January 2003 in order to form a view on the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The financial results for 2002 include a number of material charges particularly relating to wholesale credit provisioning and goodwill impairment, and a change to the embedded value accounting policy for Life Assurance.
The Board considered the circumstances surrounding these write downs and concluded that there are significant external factors, of a magnitude difficult to foresee, which have materially contributed to these write downs.
The Board has also reviewed Abbey Nationals management, organisation, strategy and financial reporting, as well as internal controls, and the actions taken and plans are more fully described elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Within the 90 day period prior to the ling date of this report, the Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including the Companys Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
Based upon and as of that evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Company les and submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and when required.
There have been no significant changes in the Companys internal controls or in other factors that could signicantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation.
