BG GROUP PLC 2002 27 governance and risk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE on page 53, demonstrate that the Board Corporate governance is the system possesses the necessary range of by which companies are directed and backgrounds, qualities and experience controlled.
UK listed companies are to lead the Company.
required to include a statement on BG Group plc has separate posts of corporate governance in their annual Chairman and Chief Executive.
This statement must include consists of three Executive Directors a narrative on how the principles of the Chief Executive, the Deputy Chief the Combined Code have been applied Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and whether or not a company has and ten non-executive Directors, complied throughout the year with all including the Chairman and Deputy the provisions set out in the Combined Chairman.
The Deputy Chairman also Code.
The Combined Code is appended acts as the Senior Independent Director.
to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing All Directors are subject to election by Authority.
shareholders at the first opportunity The Company is committed to achieving after their appointment by the Board and maintaining high standards of and to re-election by shareholders every corporate governance throughout the three years.
Attendance by all Directors Group and to integrity and high ethical is expected at all Board meetings and standards in all its business dealings.
The at the Annual General Meeting except Board continually reviews developments in special circumstances.
The Board is in corporate governance.
The following supplied with high quality and timely statement sets out how BG Group plc information to enable it to discharge implements corporate governance.
Statement of compliance with the The Board meets regularly throughout provisions of the Combined Code the year, including, in 2002, eight formal The Directors consider that the Company Board meetings.
The Board has a has complied throughout the financial schedule of matters specifically reserved period with the provisions set out in to it for decision, including matters of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
key strategic importance, Group financial policy and material acquisitions and The Board of Directors disposals.
In addition, the Board focuses The Board leads and maintains full and each year on BGs strategy at an off-site effective control over all wholly-owned Planning Conference and Directors companies and all activities where BG participate in various briefing visits has a controlling shareholding.
Where it both in the UK and overseas.
has a minority interest, BG encourages and helps its partners to establish such All the Directors have access to the controls.
The current Directors biographies, advice and services of the Company 28 BG GROUP PLC 2002 the company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance throughout the group and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings.
If necessary, Directors are free by the Board.
The membership of each issues and proposals requiring Board to take independent professional advice of the committees is shown on page 53. resolution and approval presented to as to Board decisions at BGs expense.
it in a timely and efficient fashion.
With Group Executive Committee The Company Secretary ensures that the exception of those matters reserved Chairman: Frank Chapman Board procedures are followed and that specifically for the Board, the Chairmans The Board delegates authority for applicable rules and regulations are Committee also acts on behalf of the the day-to-day management of the complied with.
The Company Secretary Board between scheduled meetings Companys business to the Group may be removed only with the approval when, in exceptional circumstances, it Executive Committee GEC which meets of the Board.
is not possible or practicable to convene monthly.
The minutes of these meetings a meeting of the Board.
Appropriate training and briefing is are circulated to all non-executive provided to all Directors on appointment Directors.
The membership of this Audit Committee to the Board, taking into account their committee comprises the three Executive Chairman: Lord Sharman individual qualifications and experience, Directors and all the senior managers The Audit Committee comprises all the and training is also available to meet whose details are shown on page 55. non-executive Directors and reviews their individual needs.
The Board also the management of key risks facing the The GEC focuses on four key areas recognises the value of regularly Company, the effectiveness of internal strategy, Group performance, people and identifying its own strengths and controls, compliance, financial and organisation and has in turn delegated weaknesses and in 2002 introduced accounting policies and practices, the specific authority to six smaller a Board evaluation exercise which it form and content of financial reports and sub-committees: intends to repeat annually.
statements and general matters which Investment Committee may be brought to the attention of the The Board considers that all Directors Company by its auditors.
In addition, the bring an independent judgment to Exploration Committee committee reviews the scope and results the Boards deliberations in respect of Business Development Committee of audit and its cost-effectiveness, as well strategy, performance, resources, key as the performance of the auditors and appointments and standards of conduct.
Health, Safety, Security and the scope and cost of non-audit services All the non-executive Directors are Environment Committee provided to the Company.
The committee considered by the Board to be Policy and Risk Committee meets at least four times a year.
independent of management and free from any business or other relationship Energy Trading Risk Management The Audit Committee meets the which could interfere with the exercise Committee membership requirements of the of their independent judgment.
Combined Code in the UK and the Chairmans Committee Blue Ribbon Report in the US.
The Blue Committees Chairman: Sir Richard Giordano Ribbon Report is a New York Stock The Board has delegated authority to the The Chairmans Committee comprises Exchange publication which makes following committees on specific matters.
the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and recommendations on improving the All the committees have formal terms all the Executive Directors.
It advises and effectiveness of corporate audit of reference or, in the case of the Audit assists the Chairman in the preparation committees.
Committee, a written charter, approved for Board meetings so that the Board has BG GROUP PLC 2002 29 the board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement board policies on risk and control.
governance and risk The Audit Committee reviews its charter Further information about the Code provisions on internal control by each year and recommends any necessary Remuneration Committee is contained establishing the procedures necessary changes to the Board.
A copy of the in the Directors Report on remuneration to implement the guidance issued by current charter, which was adopted by on pages 60 to 69. the Internal Control working party of the Committee and approved by the Board the Institute of Chartered Accountants Relationship with shareholders and in November 2002, is set out on page 31. in England and Wales in September 1999 Annual General Meeting the Turnbull Committee Report and The Company recognises the importance Finance Committee by reporting in accordance with of maintaining a purposeful relationship Chairman: Sir Richard Giordano that guidance.
with its shareholders and uses the The Finance Committee comprises the Annual General Meeting AGM as an Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, The processes used by the Board to opportunity to communicate with its the Chief Executive and the Deputy Chief review the effectiveness of the system shareholders.
Full details of the AGM are Executive and considers financing and of internal control include the following: set out in the Notice of AGM on pages treasury decisions concerning the Group, The Audit Committee reviews the 19 to 21 of the Annual Review.
including the giving of guarantees and effectiveness of internal financial, indemnities.
The committee normally BG has an annual Investor Relations operational, compliance and risk meets four times a year.
Programme and maintains a dialogue management controls.
Significant with its institutional shareholders in this Nominations Committee issues are referred to the Board for country and overseas.
In order to Chairman: Sir Richard Giordano consideration.
facilitate this dialogue, regular meetings The Nominations Committee comprises The Company has an Internal Audit are held with institutional shareholders the Chairman, the Chief Executive and department and its scope of work, following the announcement of two non-executive Directors.
It oversees authority and resources are reviewed quarterly and annual results.
and recommends to the Board all annually by the Audit Committee.
appointments of Directors and the Internal Control The Finance Committee considers Company Secretary and reviews The system of internal control is financing decisions concerning succession planning for the Board.
designed to manage, rather than the Group, including the giving The committee meets at least once eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve of guarantees and indemnities, a year and otherwise as required.
In pursuing these and monitors policy and control objectives, internal controls can provide Remuneration Committee mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
only reasonable and not absolute Chairman: Elwyn Eilledge Statement on Disclosure Controls and assurance against material The Remuneration Committee consists Procedures misstatement or loss.
The Board has exclusively of non-executive Directors.
BG Group shares are listed on the London established key policies and has carried It has responsibility for setting, reviewing Stock Exchange and its American out a specific assessment of the Groups and recommending to the Board the Depository Shares are listed on the New system of internal control for the Companys overall remuneration policy York Stock Exchange.
As a result of the purpose of this report.
and strategy and for setting, reviewing US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, BG Group and approving the remuneration of the The Company, as required by the Listing is obliged to make statements with regard Executive Directors.
Rules, has complied with the Combined to its disclosure controls and procedures.
30 BG GROUP PLC 2002 the chief executive and the chief financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and procedures and have concluded that such controls and procedures were effective.
governance and risk In accordance with these obligations, the During the year the Audit Committee: The register is presented to the Chief Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Executive and, for separate consideration, reviews the external and internal audit Officer have evaluated the effectiveness to the Head of Audit.
The Chief Executive work plans: of the Groups disclosure controls and and Audit Committee are both satisfied considers reports from management procedures as defined under Rule 13a-14 c that there are no material gaps in and internal and external audit on the of the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 the implementation of the internal system of internal control and material within 90 days of the date of this Annual control framework.
control weaknesses: Report and Accounts.
Based on this evaluation they have concluded that, requests, receives and reviews reports as of such date, such controls and from management on actions taken procedures were effective to ensure that to address risk areas identified by material information relating to the management and or the internal Group would be made known to them by audit process: others within the Group.
There were no receives and reviews an annual report significant changes including corrective on the changes since the last annual actions with regard to significant assessment in the nature and deficiencies and material weaknesses potential impact of significant risks in the Groups internal controls or in and the internal controls in place to other factors that could materially affect manage them.
these controls after the date the Chief At the year end, before producing this Executive and Chief Financial Officer statement on internal controls in the completed their evaluation.
Annual Report and Accounts, the Board, Risk Management through the Chief Executive, asks each There is a continuous process for member of the Group Executive identifying, evaluating and managing the Committee to complete a Letter of significant risks faced by the Company.
Assurance confirming compliance with This was in place during 2002 and up to the Internal Control Framework which the date of approval of this Annual Report consists of the Groups policies, and Accounts.
The process is embedded procedures and processes.
Each member in the business, with risk assessment and of the Group Executive Committee asks evaluation incorporated into the key all the senior managers in their area of business processes including strategy and responsibility to complete similar Letters business planning, investment appraisal, of Assurance.
This cascading process is performance management and health, designed to provide assurance that safety, security and environmental policies, procedures and processes are management processes.
This process being effectively implemented.
The is reviewed annually by the Audit output of this process is a register of any Committee on behalf of the Board.
identified gaps and proposed measures that will be taken to address the gaps.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 31 audit committee charter Purpose material judgements and compliance with accounting standards, The Audit Committee is established as a committee of the Board.
The purpose alternative treatments of financial information within GAAP that have of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Directors of the Company in been discussed with management, the effect of the alternative treatments fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: on the disclosed information and the auditors preferred treatment: overseeing the Groups financial reporting process, including the internal material written communications with management relating to the audit: control structure and procedures for financial reporting and monitoring the stock exchange and media releases in respect of any published results and integrity of the Groups financial statements any financial matters brought to the attention of the Company by the auditors: the manner in which the Groups management ensures and monitors the compliance with stock exchange listing rules and relevant legislation.
adequacy of financial, operational and compliance internal controls and risk Discuss with management, the external auditors and the internal auditors management processes designed to manage significant risk exposures significant business risk exposures and the processes established to identify, the selection, compensation, independence and performance of the Groups monitor, control and report such exposures.
Consider reports prepared by external auditors Internal Audit, the external auditors, the Chairman of the Policy & Risk the independence and performance of the Groups internal auditors.
Committee, and others as the Committee may request, on the operation of internal controls within the Group, any significant risk management failures Composition and meetings and managements responses.
The Audit Committee shall comprise not less than three non-executive As a part of the above review of business risk and internal control, annually Directors.
All members of the Committee shall be independent, that is free from evaluate the design and effectiveness of: any other relationship that, in the opinion of the Board, may interfere with the the internal control structure and procedures of the Group for the exercise of their independent judgement.
All members of the Committee shall purposes of financial reporting: and have financial literacy and contribute other expertise relevant to the Group.
At least one member of the Committee shall be a financial expert.
disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information disclosed by the Group is properly accumulated and communicated to The Board of Directors shall appoint a Chairman from among the members senior management to allow appropriate discussions regarding disclosure from time to time.
The Company Secretary or his her nominee shall be the to take place, Secretary to the Committee.
recommending the results of this assessment to the Board.
The Committee shall meet not less than four times per annum and more frequently as circumstances require.
The external auditors or internal auditor Oversee the functioning of Internal Audit, reviewing its strategic focus, may request a meeting if they consider that one is necessary.
A quorum of the activities and plans, staff numbers and qualifications and budget.
Approve, Committee shall be three members.
as a Committee, the appointment or removal of the Head of Group Audit.
Non-executive Directors who are not members of the Committee shall be Apply the BG Group Policy on the effectiveness and independence of entitled to attend all meetings.
The Groups senior management, internal external auditors, the Policy, as approved by the Committee from time auditor and representatives of the external auditors shall be available to attend to time, including, inter alia: when required.
selecting the external auditors for recommendation to the Board and The Chairman of the Committee shall attend the AGM and be prepared to appointment by shareholders and agreeing their fees and other compensation respond to any shareholder questions on the Committees activities.
pre-approving audit and non-audit services to be provided by the The Committee shall meet at least twice each year with only the external and external auditors internal auditors present.
reviewing annually the performance of the external auditors, including the Authority and Responsibilities cost effectiveness of the audit, and reporting to the Board the results of that The Audit Committee has full authority to investigate all matters that fall review and completing a more detailed review of auditor effectiveness at within this Charter.
least every 5 years, including consideration of whether to tender the audit The Audit Committee is accountable to the Board and shall not be entitled considering any questions of resignation or removal of the external auditors to sub-delegate all or any of the powers and authority delegated to it.
receiving from the external auditors a formal written statement that In discharging its responsibilities, the Audit Committee shall have unrestricted discloses all relationships between the auditors and the Group, as set out access to the Companys management, books and records and shall be entitled in the Policy, and reports on: the performance of non-audit activities: to receive such information as it requires from any employee.
All employees rotation of audit partners and staff: auditor relationships: employment of shall be directed to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
former auditors: and includes the confirmation of auditor independence.
The Board and external auditors are accountable to shareholders.
The Audit The Committee will review and discuss with the external auditors any Committee, as a committee of the Board, is responsible for selecting the relationships or services that may impact on the independence and external auditors for recommendation to the Board and appointment by the objectivity of the external auditors and take, or recommend that the Board shareholders.
The Audit Committee is directly responsible for the compensation takes, appropriate action to ensure their independence and oversight of the external auditors.
resolving disagreements between management and the external auditors It is the responsibility of the management of the Group to prepare financial regarding financial reporting for the purpose of issuing the audit report.
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles GAAP Establish and oversee procedures for the receipt, retention of information and of the Groups external auditors to audit those financial statements.
The about and treatment of complaints relating to financial matters.
Audit Committees responsibility is one of oversight and, in carrying out its Set out in an annual report to the Board, inter alia, that it has reviewed the responsibilities, the Audit Committee itself is not providing any expert or other scope of the annual audit, the independence of the auditors in accordance special assurance as to the Groups or Companys financial statements.
with the Policy and is satisfied that the integrity of the audit has not been The Committee shall: compromised.
The Committee will also recommend whether a report should Review the adequacy of this Charter annually, reporting any proposed be given to shareholders.
changes to the Board for review and approval.
Regularly report to the Board of Directors its conclusions with respect to the Review and approve the external auditors planned audit scope and findings from matters that the Audit Committee has considered.
their interim and final audits, including the management letter and Consider any other matters, as may be delegated from time to time by response.
Review with management and the external auditors, reporting the results of The Audit Committee is authorised to obtain, and determine the fees for, the review to the Board: outside legal or other independent professional advice and to secure the the Groups financial statements, together with any schedule of attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise, as it unadjusted differences arising from the audit: considers necessary.
all the Groups critical accounting policies and practices used, including their application and quality: 32 BG GROUP PLC 2002 LAKE CHARLES LNG IMPORTATION TERMINAL, LOUISIANA, USA RIGHT.
SCARAB SAFFRON CONSTRUCTION WORK NEARING COMPLETION, IDKU, EGYPT FAR RIGHT governance and risk RISK FACTORS Commercial risks are dependent on the per therm in 2001, 18 pence per therm in Our risk management process focuses Groups ability to enter into, restructure 2002 and 17 pence per therm thereafter.
on identifying and managing the key or re-contract advantageous long-term Significant variations in these factors risks to our business.
BG Group from those assumed may have a material generally participates in business The key risks to our business are: impact on the Groups ability to deliver activities with several co-venturers and its business targets.
Delivery of the Groups business targets operating agreements provide for liabilities The Groups 2003 and 2006 business to be borne by co-venturers according Country risks targets, which are described in the to their interests.
However, government Group companies, joint ventures and Business Review section, and financial licences generally require joint and associates operate in countries and targets, which are described in the several liability of all co-venturers.
regions throughout the world that are Operating and Financial Review of this subject to significantly differing political, Economic risks include credit risk, Annual Report and Accounts, and our economic and market conditions.
BGs commodity price expectations, price long-term growth potential are the operations are subject to the jurisdiction indexation of gas contracts to oil-based focus of significant attention especially of numerous governmental agencies and other indices, the levy of royalties in the areas of: in the countries in which its assets are and taxes on hydrocarbon production, located, with respect to regulatory and execution of major capital intensive exchange rates and inflation rates.
Generally, many projects on time and within budget: The most significant economic risks are of the countries in which the Group large fluctuations in the following: commercialisation of projects: and does, and expects to do, business have long-term energy growth including commodity prices, being the risk recently developed, or are in the process the reserves resource base growth of a significant fluctuation in oil of developing, new regulatory and legal to support this.
and or gas prices: structures to accommodate private and foreign owned businesses.
These Project development and execution are exchange rates, in particular regulatory and legal structures and subject to technical, commercial and the US$:UK: their interpretation and application by economic risks.
Technical risks in upstream US UK inflation: and administrative agencies are relatively new activities include uncertainties in UK corporation tax.
Many estimating reserves, future production detailed rules and procedures are yet to be volumes and the costs of upstream The Groups targets are based on the issued.
The interpretation of existing rules activities, including drilling.
Technical assumptions that: Brent oil prices will can also be expected to change over time, risks in downstream activities include be $16 per barrel real base 2000 until making the business environment in the timely completion of projects under end 2003 and $17 per barrel nominal which the Group operates less predictable.
construction, security of supply, thereafter: US$:UK exchange rate will be unscheduled outages, electricity $1.55:1: US UK inflation rates will be 2.5% Specific country risks that may have a transmission system or gas pipeline per annum: the UK corporation tax rate material impact on our business include: system constraints and reliable application will be 30%, except UK upstream which political and economic instability: of new technologies to operations.
will be 40% from 2002 onwards: and UK uncontracted gas prices will be 22 pence BG GROUP PLC 2002 33 governance and risk government intervention in licence Protecting the Groups reputation Insurance awards: The Groups reputation is crucial to A comprehensive insurance programme business success.
The Statement of is maintained to protect against regulatory, taxation and legal Business Principles guides actions and significant losses and, as is consistent structure changes: decisions by providing a common code with good energy industry practice, the control of field developments and of ethics for all employees.
includes cover for physical damage, transportation infrastructure: removal of debris, control of wells, redrill, We seek to ensure that third party the receipt of permits and consents: pollution and employers and third contractors, agents and representatives cancellation of contractual rights: and party liabilities.
are retained on terms consistent with the expropriation of assets.
Non-compliance with The programme incorporates the use of the Business Principles could impact on the Groups captive insurance subsidiary The Group seeks to maintain a diverse our reputation in the marketplace and and is subject to certain limits, deductibles, portfolio of investments in different thereby materially affect our business.
However, some countries in order to spread its exposure of the major consequences of the risks to country risk.
Health, Safety, Security and Environment involved in BG Groups activities cannot, The Group recognises that the protection Competition or may not, be reasonably and of the health and safety of its employees Across the world, there is strong economically insured against.
and others affected by its operations, competition in the energy sector.
the security of physical and intellectual Attracting and retaining human Numerous companies compete in the resources HR assets and the protection of the natural sector, many of them internationally, but We are developing comprehensive environment are essential elements in no single company dominates globally.
human resource plans addressing delivering business performance.
The Groups projects compete with other mediumto longer-term needs as an The Group has identified key risks in these forms of energy available to customers, integral part of our business plans.
areas and has implemented internal primarily on the basis of price paid by They will reconcile the demand for and control systems to manage them.
Policies and measures at the planned supply of people with the range international and national level to tackle of capabilities and experience required.
Risk mitigation strategies are employed climate change will increasingly affect the Global HR policies are aimed at to reduce further the Groups exposure business conditions, presenting risks and maximising employee commitment and to these risks.
Failure to maintain and opportunities to the Group.
Changes in the retention and are refined to be relevant improve our performance in the areas of usage of alternative sources of energy or in locally.
Failure to attract and retain health, safety, security and environment the relative cost of gas vis--vis alternative people with the right capabilities and could result in damage to, or destruction energy sources such as fuel oil, liquefied experience could have a material effect of, facilities and injury to persons, each petroleum gas or hydroelectric power, on our business.
of which could have a material effect on may have a material impact on the the Groups business.
Groups ability to maintain existing market positions or gain new market positions.
