39 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Statement of Corporate Governance Principles of Corporate Governance Operation of the Board The Companys Board appreciates the value of good corporate The Board meets regularly and approves and closely monitors the governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management Alliance & Leicester Groups strategic direction and business strategy.
but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
It believes There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to the that corporate governance involves more than a simple box ticking Board for decision including major capital expenditure, annual budgets approach to establish whether a company has met the requirements and corporate objectives.
Procedures are in place which allow directors of a number of specic rules and regulations.
Rather the issue is one to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties of applying corporate governance principles including those set out and all directors have access to the advice and services of the in Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Company Secretary.
Practice the Combined Code published by The Financial Services The Board receives regular management performance and internal Authority in a sensible and pragmatic fashion, having regard to the control reports and operates a system of Board reviews of individual individual circumstances of a particular companys business.
The key business units and their performance against key business targets objective is to enhance and protect shareholder value.
The Group will be giving careful consideration to the recently published The Board has established several committees with specified Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors terms of reference which assist the full Board in the exercise of and the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Committees Combined its responsibilities: Code Guidance The Smith Report.
These reports are a welcome Nomination Committee addition to the debate on the framework of corporate governance.
Under the chairmanship of Mr Windeler this Committee, comprising non-executive directors, has the task of recommending new Board Structure appointments to the Board and reviewing re-appointments when The Companys Board comprises seven non-executive directors and they become due.
It has formal Terms of Reference and its current four executive directors who have the collective responsibility for membership comprises: ensuring that the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries are managed competently and with integrity.
The Chairman is Mr J R Mr J R Windeler Chairman Windeler.
The senior independent non-executive director is the Mr M J Allen Deputy Chairman, Mr M P S Barton.
Following the departure of the Mr M P S Barton former Group Managing Director in October 2001, Mr Windeler The Hon D Brougham combined the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive until 1 June 2002 Miss F A Cairncross when Mr R A Pym was appointed Group Chief Executive.
Remuneration Committee The Board considers that all the non-executive directors with the Under the chairmanship of Mr Barton Deputy Chairman of the exception of Mr J R Windeler due to his previous role as both Chairman Company this Committee, comprising non-executive directors, and Group Chief Executive are independent within the denition determines the remuneration and contractual arrangements of of this term in the Combined Code.
individual executive directors, having regard to a general policy framework for executive remuneration established by the Board.
Whilst providing challenge to executive directors, the nonThe Boards Report on Directors Remuneration appears on pages executive directors nevertheless play a full part as members of the 33 to 38.
They bring a diversity of business perspective and objectivity which complements the hands on expertise of their It has formal Terms of Reference and its current membership executive director colleagues.
All members of the Board share comprises: responsibility for Board decisions.
Mr M P S Barton Chairman The composition of the Board is kept under review with the aim Mr M J Allen of ensuring that there is a proper balance of power and authority The Hon D Brougham between executive and non-executive members of the Board and Miss F A Cairncross that the Board collectively possesses the necessary skills and Mr J R Windeler from 25 July 2002 experience for the proper direction of the Groups business activities.
Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and at three yearly intervals thereafter.
They receive induction training upon appointment.
40 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Group Audit & Risk Committee Other Committees Membership of the Committee comprises Mr P Barton Chairman, The Chairmans Committee is empowered to take urgent decisions the Hon.
D Brougham, Mr M McTighe and Mr J Watts all of whom between Board meetings and comprises the Chairman or a are non-executive directors.
Mr Barton succeeded Mr N Corah who non-executive director, the Deputy Chairman or another non-executive was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement from the Board director and the Group Chief Executive or one other executive director.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended The Board also has other established committees.
The Group Credit by the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Director Policy Committee reviews all aspects of credit, market and liquidity risk of Accounting and Taxation, the Director of Group Risk, the Head of and the Group Assets and Liabilities Committee establishes strategies Group Internal Audit, the Head of Group Compliance who is also the for, and monitors and controls, the levels of balance sheet risk, Group Money Laundering Reporting officer and the external auditors.
including liquidity, funding and currency exposures across the Group, The Chairman of the Committee has independent access to both and the monitoring of interest rate rexing proles.
internal and external auditors and to the Groups statutory regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
The Executive Directors Committee facilitates the Groups effective operation and the Credit, Controls & Security Committee reviews The duties of the Committee fall into two main areas: internal control credit, audit, compliance and Group accounting issues.
Internal Control: The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Pension Funds Groups systems of internal control and risk management and monitors The Groups pension funds are held and controlled by trustees separately compliance with regulatory requirements.
To do this, the Committee from the Group: in particular no scheme assets are invested in or loaned approves the annual Internal Audit and Compliance plans, which are to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Independence is reinforced by strong based on thorough risk assessments of the full scope of the Groups employee trustee representation.
business activities, and monitors progress against the plans.
Each meeting of the Committee receives reports from the Head of Group Relations with Shareholders Internal Audit and the Head of Group Compliance regarding the The Company values dialogue with its institutional shareholders state of internal control and compliance within the Group.
The salient through meetings and results briengs.
The Annual General Meeting points of these reports are presented to the next Board meeting.
and the documents sent to shareholders before that meeting provide Financial Reporting: the Committees role is to review, on behalf of an opportunity for the Board to account to shareholders for its the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Preliminary Results stewardship of the Groups business.
Announcement, the Interim Report and internal audit reports.
The Committee focuses on reviewing any changes in accounting policy, Compliance Statement major areas of judgement and estimates, and compliance with The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the accounting principles and regulatory requirements.
Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 The Committee recognises the importance of maintaining a sound save that Mr Windeler, who is not considered to be an independent system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments non-executive director, as dened by the Combined Code, due to his and the Groups assets.
Further information on the systems of business previous role as both Chairman and Group Chief Executive, has been control appears later in this statement.
The Committee has formal a member of the Remuneration Committee since 25 July 2002.
The Companys independent external auditors Board considers that Mr Windelers experience makes him a highly are present at meetings of the Committee, and the Committee keeps valuable member of the Remuneration Committee.
under review the overall financial relationship between the Company and its auditors in order to ensure a proper balance between the Internal Control maintenance of objectivity and obtaining value for money.
The Group Audit & Risk Committee has regularly reviewed the The Committee also receives on behalf of the Board the Annual Report effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the of the Group Money Laundering Reporting officer.
All authorised rms year to 31 December 2002 on behalf of the Board, and has taken are required by the Financial Services Authority to commission such a account of any material developments that may have taken place report on an annual basis.
41 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The key features of the system of business control established by the System of Business Control Board are: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Groups business involves A Group Internal Control Policy requiring senior management to the identication, acceptance and mitigation of risk, and appropriate identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls internal control systems have been implemented and embedded.
through key performance indicators and certify to the Board on These systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than a twice yearly basis that they are effective.
The results of this self eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide certication are subject to internal audit scrutiny and are reported reasonable but not absolute assurance as to the effectiveness of the via the Group Audit & Risk Committee: safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, A well dened management structure with clear accountabilities loss or fraud, but it must be recognised that they cannot provide and delegations: absolute assurance.
A system of executive management committees, including the The directors are required by law to establish systems for the control Executive Directors Committee and the Credit, Controls & Security of the conduct of the business in accordance with the Financial Executive Committee.
These committees enhance and support the Services and Markets Act 2000 and to conduct the business with oversight role of the Board: prudence and integrity, ensuring that there are adequate reserves and other capital resources and assets in liquid form for the protection A planning and budget process that delivers detailed annual financial of depositors.
forecasts and targets for Board approval: There has been in place for the year under review and up to the date Management information systems enabling the Board to receive of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and business performance significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed including variance against budget: by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on A Group Risk Management function with overarching responsibility the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants for the monitoring and reporting of all major risks to which the in England and Wales in September 1999.
Group is exposed, supported by specialist risk functions: The Board receives monthly reports from the key executives identifying An Internal Audit function to report to the Board on the effectiveness performance against budget, major business issues and the impact of key internal controls in relation to these major risks: of the external business and economic environment on their areas of A Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups responsibility.
The Board also receives the minutes of the Group Audit & Risk Committee, and reports from the Chairman of the Group Credit key regulators and to identify and control major compliance risks: Policy Committee.
These identify any significant issues relating to the The appointment of a Money Laundering Reporting officer and the adequacy of the Groups risk management policies and procedures establishment and maintenance of anti-money laundering procedures across the full range of risks to which the Group is exposed.
and controls including training programmes for staff: and The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal Control Documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that risks Policy to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Each regular meeting involved in major projects are properly assessed and controlled.
of this Committee receives a report identifying the effectiveness of The activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, internal control together with specic reports on major issues.
An are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
The annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control within the Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed prudential and Group is submitted by the Head of Group Internal Audit to this statistical returns covering all areas of its business and meets regularly Committee.
The Board retains control over this area through the with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and presentation of a regular Group Audit & Risk Committee activities constructive manner.
report together with the minutes of the Committee meetings.
Going Concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
