compliance with the relations with code of best practice stockholders The section How the Company Works constitutes the communications with statement on the application by the Company of the stockholders principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, The Company encourages communication with stockholders as required by the UK Listing Authority.
on matters of mutual concern and interest.
All registered The Board confirms that, except where otherwise stated, stockholders receive an annual report and accounts and an throughout the period of this report the Company has interim statement each year.
These are also sent to complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The stockholders who hold their stock through nominees and two areas of variation are that the Board has not appointed have requested such information from the Company.
a nominations committee explained at page 23, and The annual general meeting is held in Dundee each year to separate, performance-related elements do not form a which a warm welcome is extended to all owners of Alliance substantial part of the total remuneration package of Trust stock, however held.
The management meets executive directors explained at page 24. stockholders, institutional investors and financial advisers in Dundee and elsewhere, and participates in events for private investors organised by ATS.
Much communication with stockholders is achieved through ATS, whose products all have as a common feature an investment in the stock of the Company or the Second Alliance.
notifications by substantial stockholders The Company must be notified when any stockholder, acting alone, or in concert with one or more other parties, acquires an interest of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary stock.
The Company has been notified of the following interests: Ordinary stock units DC Thomson & Co Ltd 3,241,503 6.43% The Standard Life Assurance Company 2,564,741 5.09% ATS currently holds over 12% of the Companys ordinary stock on behalf of its customers and as trustee of the Alliance Select Pension.
This is not a notifiable interest in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
