Corporate Governance Statement This Statement sets out the key governance principles adopted In addition to its market disclosure, the Directors ensure by the Directors in governing the BHP Billiton Group.
shareholders are kept informed through a variety of other means: In preparing the Statement, the Directors are mindful that the Shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, Group operates in many different countries.
The Dual Listed including the annual report and accounts, key policies and the Companies structure is predicated on the maintenance of Terms of Reference of its Board Committees, through the primary listings in Australia and the United Kingdom.
BHP Billiton website at www.
Limited is a registrant of the SEC in the United States and both From time to time, briefings with shareholders are conducted in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc maintain secondary an effort to promote a better understanding of the Group.
Site listings in a number of other jurisdictions.
visits are also arranged to give those who advise shareholders In formulating the governance practices, Directors have taken a better understanding of the Groups operating facilities.
into account the regulatory requirements and best practice In conducting briefings, BHP Billiton takes care to ensure that processes in each jurisdiction.
Where governance practices vary any price-sensitive information released is made available to all across the jurisdictions, as they inevitably do, the Directors have shareholders institutional and private and the market at the resolved to adopt those practices that they consider to be the same time and in accordance with the requirements of the better of the prevailing standards.
stock exchanges on which the Group is listed.
Shareholders This information is also released by email to all persons who The Directors of BHP Billiton acknowledge and endorse the have requested their name be added to the contact database.
expectation of shareholders that their funds will be used in a Any person wishing to be added to this database can do so manner that realises a superior return on investment and that, in via the Company Homepage at www.
pursuing this aim, the Directors will undertake their duties with The principal communication with private investors is through honesty, integrity, care and diligence, according to the law and the provision of the Annual Report and financial statements, the in a manner that reflects the highest standards of governance.
interim statements and the Annual General Meetings.
Notice of The shareholders of BHP Billiton play a key role in the governance the Annual General Meetings is posted to shareholders at least of the Group by electing the Directors whose task it is to govern 28 days in advance of the meeting.
In 2002, the Annual General on their behalf.
One-third of the Directors retire each year by Meetings for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will be rotation and are subject to re-election by shareholders.
The Group will make use Directors recognise that for shareholders to effectively discharge of available telecommunications technology to facilitate a their responsibilities in electing Directors, and in voting on the single meeting environment with shareholders present in both other issues that are put to them for consideration, they must Melbourne and London.
Shareholders are encouraged to use receive high-quality, relevant and useful information in a these meetings to ask questions on any matter.
Directors are committed to the promotion of investor confidence by ensuring that trade in the Groups securities takes place in an efficient, competitive and informed market.
The BHP Billiton Charter set out on page 59 recognises the importance of forthright communication as a key plank in building shareholder value, and that to prosper and achieve growth, it must among other things earn the trust of employees, customers, suppliers, communities and shareholders by being forthright in its communications and consistently delivering on its commitments.
BHP Billiton will comply with the continuous disclosure obligations contained in the applicable Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange and in so doing will immediately notify the market by announcing to all of the stock exchanges on which its securities are listed any information in relation to the business of BHP Billiton that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on, or lead to a substantial movement in, the price or value of securities.
38 Board of Directors Composition Membership BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have identical Boards of Directors.
The Boards are hereafter referred to collectively as the Board.
The names of the Directors in office at the date of this Report, the year of appointment, their status as non-executive, independent or executive Directors and whether they retire at the 2002 Annual General Meetings are set out in the table below.
NAMES OF DIRECTORS IN OFFICE AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT Appointed Non-executive Independent Executive Retiring Seeking in 2002 re-election in 2002 Paul Anderson former CEO and 1998 Yes No No Yes No Managing Director Retired as CEO and Managing Director 1 July 2002 Don Argus Chairman 1996 Yes Yes No No n a David Brink 1997 Yes Yes No No n a Michael Chaney 1995 Yes Yes No No n a David Crawford 1994 Yes Yes No No n a Brian Gilbertson Chief Executive 1997 No No Yes Yes Yes Former Deputy CEO.
Appointed Chief Executive 1 July 2002 Charles Goodyear Chief Development Officer 2001 No No Yes Yes Yes Appointed to the Board in November 2001.
His appointment is to be ratified by shareholders Cornelius Herkstrter 1998 Yes Yes No No n a John Jackson Deputy Chairman and Senior 1997 Yes Yes No Yes No Independent Director David Jenkins 2000 Yes Yes No Yes Yes John Ralph 1997 Yes Yes No Yes No Lord Renwick 1997 Yes Yes No No n a John Schubert 2000 Yes Yes No Yes Yes Since the merger, the Board has reduced its size from 17 to 13 the year to fill a casual vacancy.
At the 2002 Annual General Directors.
Following the Annual General Meetings there will be Meetings, shareholders will be asked to ratify the appointment 10 Directors in office.
Eight will be non-executive Directors and of Mr Charles Goodyear, who was appointed in November 2001. two will be executive Directors.
The Board will announce new The Constitution and Articles of Association of the Group provide appointments in due course, with a view to reaching its target of that Directors cannot be re-appointed if they have reached the nine non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
age of 70 years, unless that appointment is approved by shareholders in the form of a special resolution.
A Director Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on so appointed must retire at the next annual general meeting.
Retirement and re-election Independence of non-executive Directors One-third of the members of the Board retire at each annual Independence is variously defined in the jurisdictions in which general meeting.
The Board has considered the associations of each of the 13 Directors in office at the date of this Report Directors must submit themselves to re-election by shareholders.
and considers 10 of them to be independent.
The three Directors In addition, the Nomination Committee has been tasked by the who are not considered independent are the two executive Board to consider the skills and diversity represented on the Directors, Mr Brian Gilbertson and Mr Charles Goodyear, and Board, on a regular basis.
the former Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Shareholders are also required to ratify, at the next annual general Mr Paul Anderson.
meeting, the appointment of any Director appointed throughout 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued None of the 10 independent non-executive Directors has ever It is recognised that it may be difficult in the future for any been an employee of the Group and the Board considers that Director to offer him or herself for re-election unless a none has business or other relationships that could materially performance appraisal has been undertaken.
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
A performance appraisal and Board review is scheduled for early None represents shareholder groups or has significant financial in 2003.
The aim is to conduct an objective assessment of the or personal ties to the Group.
None participates in share, option performance of each Director, including the Chairman, and the or performance-based plans.
Board as a whole, and will be facilitated by an independent consultant.
The results will provide the Chairman with meaningful Some of the non-executive Directors hold directorships or material with which to discuss individual performance with each executive positions in companies with which BHP Billiton has Director and for the Board to discuss the performance of the commercial relationships.
Details of these directorships and Chairman.
executive positions are set out on pages 32 to 34 of this Report.
The Board has considered all of these associations and does not Board of Directors Role consider that any compromise the independence of the Directors The management and control of the business of the Group is concerned.
Refer note 31 to the financial statements.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it The concept of independence is further defined in proposed changes for decision.
This schedule includes the adoption of the strategic to the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange that are direction of the Group, the appointment of key senior executives, awaiting approval by the SEC.
The Board will review its determination approval of accounts, approval of the business plan and the of independence when those changes have been finalised.
budget, approval of financial policies, review of operating results, In accordance with the recommendation contained in the UK risk management strategy, succession planning and significant Combined Code, the Board has appointed Mr John Jackson as capital expenditure.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Following management of the Group through the Chief Executive to executive Mr Jacksons retirement, the Board will nominate another management.
There is a clear division between the responsibilities member as its Senior Independent Director.
of the Board and management.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not combined.
The Chief Executive is accountable Skill and experience to the Board for all authority delegated to executive management.
The Board considers that, between them, the non-executive The Board has also delegated some of its responsibilities to Directors bring the range of skills, knowledge and experience committees of the Board.
These delegations are outlined in the necessary to govern the Group, including international experience: Approvals Framework, which itself is approved by the Board.
understanding the economics of the sectors in which the Group A diagrammatic outline of the entities to which delegations have operates: knowledge of world capital markets: and an been made is set out below.
understanding of the health, safety, environmental and community challenges that the Group faces.
Succession planning GROUP BOARDS The Board manages planning for its own succession with the assistance of the Nomination Committee.
In so doing, the Board: considers the skills necessary to allow it to meet the strategic EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BOARD vision for the Group refer to page 35 COMMITTEES assesses the skills currently represented Risk Management & Audit Committee identifies any skills not adequately represented and agrees the Financial Risk Investment Other refer to page 41 process necessary to ensure a candidate is selected who brings Management Review Levels of Committee Committee Management those skills Remuneration refer to page 43 refer to page 43 Committee engages in a robust analysis of how Board performance might be refer to page 43 enhanced both at individual level and for the Board as a whole.
Nomination The Board engages the services of an independent recruitment Committee refer to page 42 organisation to undertake a search for suitable candidates.
Performance appraisal Health, Safety and Environment The Board believes that progressive organisations, especially those Committee that appreciate the challenge of operating in a radically different refer to page 42 business environment from that of even five years ago, will be more inclined to embrace contemporary performance measures.
40 With the consent of the Chairman, individual Directors may seek The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services independent professional advice, at the expense of the Group, for each of the Committees.
on any matter connected with the discharge of their Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes are made responsibilities.
available to all members of the Board.
Chairman The number of Committee meetings held during the year, and The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, is a non-executive, independent the attendance at those meetings by members is set out on Director.
He has been Chairman since 1999.
The Board delegates page 61 of this Report.
to the Chairman responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
The Chairman leads the Board and is With the exception of the HSE Committee, all Committee members responsible for representing the Board to shareholders.
are non-executive Directors and are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Chief Executive, Mr Brian Gilbertson and Company Secretary the Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment, Mr Colin The Company Secretary is Ms Karen Wood.
The appointment Bloomfield, both sit as members of the HSE Committee.
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on the appropriate The role and membership of each Committee is set out below.
procedures for the management of meetings and the Risk Management & Audit Committee implementation of governance procedures.
All Directors have Role access to her advice and services.
The role of the Risk Management & Audit Committee is to assist Board of Directors Meetings the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information, The Board met seven times during the year.
Each meeting ran the appropriate application and amendment of accounting for two days, with one meeting focusing on strategy running policies, the identification and management of risk, and internal for three days.
Four of those meetings were held in Australia control systems.
The Committee has responsibility for: and three in the UK.
1. recommending to the Board the appointment and dismissal Details of Director attendance at the meetings held during the of the external auditors and setting the appropriate fees year are set out on page 61 of this Report.
2. evaluating the performance of the external auditors, including The Chairman sets the agenda for each meeting in consultation their independence and objectivity with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Any Director may have any matter added to the agenda.
3. ensuring that it is clear that the external auditors are responsible to the Committee and the Board as Members of senior management regularly attend meetings of representatives of the shareholders the Board.
4. reviewing and approving the audit plan including identified Copies of Board papers are circulated in advance of meetings risk areas to Directors in either electronic or hard copy form.
5. ensuring compliance with the Group policy on non-audit services The Board works to a rolling calendar and conducts periodic reviews of the Groups businesses.
6. overseeing the appointment and removal of the Vice President Directors are encouraged to participate in debate and to bring Risk Assessment and Assurance and the internal audit independent judgement to bear on matters being considered.
function The Board recognises that constructive differences of opinion 7. evaluating the performance of the Vice President Risk lead to more robust evaluation of the issues and, ultimately, Assessment and Assurance, including his or her independence better outcomes.
The Board may seek advice from independent experts whenever Responsibilities relating to risk management and internal control it considers this to be appropriate.
Committees of the Board Composition The Board has established four permanent committees to assist The Risk Management & Audit Committee is composed entirely in the execution of its responsibilities.
These committees are the of non-executive Directors, all of whom the Board considers to Risk Management & Audit Committee, the Health, Safety and be independent.
Environment HSE Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Ad hoc committees are formed Mr David Crawford chairs the Committee.
Mr Crawford is the from time to time to deal with specific matters.
former National Chairman of KPMG in Australia.
KPMG was the joint auditor with  of Billiton Plc.
Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference or KPMG,  and Ernst & Young previously Charters under which authority is delegated from the Board.
The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be viewed on Andersen performed the audit of the Group for the 2002 the website at www.
41 Corporate Governance Statement continued In June 2002, the Board resolved to appoint KPMG and The HSE Committee has responsibility for:  as joint auditors of BHP Billiton for 1. recommending to the Board a health, safety, environment the 2003 financial year.
and community policy The Board considers Mr Crawfords chairmanship of the Risk 2. monitoring the Groups compliance with the approved HSE Management & Audit Committee appropriate at this time and Policy and applicable legislation does not consider Mr Crawfords independence to be compromised for the following reasons: 3. assessing the HSE standards of the Group KPMG did not provide audit services for BHP at any time while 4. assessing the operations of the Group and making Mr Crawford was both a Director of BHP and employed by recommendations for assessing, avoiding, eliminating, KPMG controlling and minimising HSE risks Mr Crawford resigned as a partner and Australian National 5. researching and recommending the adoption of acceptable Chairman of KPMG on 28 June 2001, prior to the HSE practices in the industries in which the Group operates implementation of the merger 6. investigating HSE incidents within the Group and considering Mr Crawford has had no financial arrangement with KPMG, HSE issues that may have strategic business and reputational including no pension arrangements, retainers, advisory fees or implications for the Group as well as recommending any direct or indirect business arrangements since his appropriate measures and responses.
resignation Composition Mr Crawford has never been part of the KPMG audit practice Dr David Brink chairs the HSE Committee.
Dr David Jenkins and nor in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit the Chief Executive, Mr Brian Gilbertson, sit as members of the activity associated with Billiton, BHP or BHP Billiton.
Committee, as does Mr Colin Bloomfield, Vice President, Health, Mr Crawford abstained from voting on the recommendation of Safety and Environment.
The other members of the Committee the Risk Management & Audit Committee and from the approval are all external experts in the fields of health, safety, environment by the Board in relation to the appointment of the auditors.
They are Professor Albert Davies, Dr David Slater, Dr Colin Soutar, Professor Jim Joy, Mr Edwin Spence and The other members of the Committee are, currently, Mr Ben Alberts who was, until June 2002, an independent Mr Cornelius Herkstrter, Dr David Brink and Dr David Jenkins.
non-executive Director of BHP Billiton.
No member of management is a member of the Committee.
Nomination Committee The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice Role President Risk Assessment and Assurance attend meetings of The Nomination Committee supports and advises the Board in the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Committee ensuring that the Board is comprised of individuals who are best meets with the auditors in the absence of members of able to discharge the responsibilities of Directors, having regard management on a regular basis.
to the law and the highest standards of governance, by: To assist in discharging its responsibilities, the Risk Management 1. assessing the skills required on the Board & Audit Committee receives reports from separate Risk Management & Audit Committees that have been established 2. from time to time assessing the extent to which the required for each of the Customer Sector Groups and key functional skills are represented on the Board areas.
Committees have been established for the Carbon Steel 3. establishing processes for the review of the performance Materials, Stainless Steel Materials, Aluminium, Petroleum, of individual Directors and the Board as a whole Energy Coal and Base Metals Customer Sector Groups and for the Finance, Development, Marketing and Treasury functions.
4. establishing processes for the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
These Committees have no statutory responsibility in terms of reporting.
This responsibility rests with the BHP Billiton Risk Composition Management & Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee Role The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, chairs the Committee.
The other The role of the HSE Committee is to assist the Board to fulfil members are Lord Renwick, Dr John Schubert and Dr David its responsibilities in relation to health, safety, environment and Brink.
Under the terms of the 2001 merger of BHP Limited and community matters arising out of the activities of the Group as Billiton Plc, the Australian Foreign Investment Review Board they affect employees, contractors and the communities in which approved a structure of the Nomination Committee that requires it operates.
equal representation from the former BHP Limited and the former Billiton Plc until 30 June 2004.
The composition of the Committee meets that requirement.
42 Remuneration Committee Any dealing in the shares of BHP Billiton by a Director is reported Role to the Board at each meeting.
The Australian and London Stock The Remuneration Committee supports and advises the Board Exchanges, and all secondary exchanges on which BHP Billiton is listed, are notified of any share dealing by a Director within in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders by: five days.
1. determining executive remuneration policy The BHP Billiton Securities Dealing Policy can be viewed on the 2. determining the remuneration of executive Directors website at www.
3. reviewing and approving the remuneration of direct reports Management Committees to the Chief Executive and other senior executives Executive Committee The Executive Committee has two principal functions to make 4. reviewing and approving all equity based plans.
recommendations to the Board in respect of certain matters Composition on which the Board must make decisions, and to exercise the The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of authority delegated to it by the Board under the terms of the independent non-executive Directors.
Mr John Jackson, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent The Chief Executive chairs the Committee.
Minutes of meetings Director chairs the Committee.
Mr John Ralph, Lord Renwick of the Committee are circulated to all Board members.
and Dr John Schubert are the other members of the Committee.
The members of the Committee are Mr Brian Gilbertson, The Committee seeks advice and guidance from the Chief Mr Phillip Aiken, Mr John Fast, Mr Ian Fraser, Mr Charles Executive and the Group Vice President Human Resources, as Goodyear, Mr Robert Kirkby, Mr Marius Kloppers, Mr Chris Lynch, it considers appropriate.
From time to time, it seeks advice from Mr Brad Mills, Mr Mike Oppenheimer and Mr Mike Salamon.
The report of the Committee relating to the Financial Risk Management Committee remuneration practices of the Group is set out on pages 47 to 58 The Chief Financial Officer chairs the Financial Risk Management of this Report.
Under powers delegated by the Executive Committee, Directors remuneration this Committee monitors the financial risk management policies Details of remuneration paid to the Directors executive and of the Group, approves financial transactions within the scope non-executive are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report of its authority and makes recommendations to the Executive on pages 47 to 58 of this Report.
Minutes of meetings of the Financial Risk Management Committee are circulated to the members of the Share ownership and dealing Board and the Executive Committee.
Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares Investment Review Committee in either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc until they An Investment Review Committee has been established to achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years manage the approval processes for major investments.
Those processes are designed to ensure that: remuneration and, thereafter, to maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their tenure.
investments are aligned to the Groups agreed strategies and values Details of the shares held by Directors are set out on page 61 of this Report.
risks are identified and evaluated investments are fully optimised to produce the maximum BHP Billiton has a policy that covers dealings in securities that shareholder value within an acceptable risk framework applies to Directors and senior management.
The policy has been designed to ensure that shareholders, customers and the appropriate risk management strategies are pursued.
international business community have confidence that BHP The Investment Review Committee operates under powers Billiton will comply with the law and best practice in corporate delegated by the Executive Committee and makes recommendations governance and will handle confidential information with to that Committee.
Minutes of meetings of the Investment Review integrity and sensitivity.
Committee are circulated to members of the Executive Committee.
Under the policy, Directors are required to obtain the consent The Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
of the Chairman before dealing in any shares of BHP Billiton.
Directors and senior management are also prohibited from Accountability and audit dealing in shares or other securities of BHP Billiton during Financial reporting designated prohibited periods and at any time at which the The Dual Listed Companies structure under which BHP Billiton individual is in possession of inside information.
The policy operates requires the Group to comply with the corporate adopts the terms of the Model Code as set out in the Listing regulations of Australia and the United Kingdom.
As a registrant Rules published by the UK Financial Services Authority.
of the SEC in the United States, BHP Billiton Limited also complies with the regulatory regime of that country in so far as it applies to foreign companies.
43 Corporate Governance Statement continued Consistent with the regulatory requirements of all three considering whether, taken as a whole, the various jurisdictions, BHP Billiton prepares combined financial statements relationships between the Group and the external auditors according to the Australian generally accepted accounting impairs, or appears to impair the auditors judgement or principles GAAP, UK GAAP and US GAAP.
The combined financial independence statements reflect the fact that the Group operates as a single considering whether the compensation of individuals employed economic entity.
by the external auditors who are performing the audit is tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, consider whether The Directors are committed to the preparation of financial this impairs, or appears to impair, the external auditors statements that present a balanced and clear assessment of judgement or independence the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is provided in the Chairmans Review, the Chief Executives Report reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the and the Review of Operations and in the various Customer Sector external auditors and assessing whether that importance Group reports contained in this Report.
impairs, or appears to impair, the external auditors judgement or independence.
The role of the Risk Management & Audit Committee in the preparation and reporting of the financial information of the The Group audit engagement partners will rotate every seven Group is set out on page 41 of this Report.
The Risk Management & Audit Committee and the Board will review this rotation period in the light of recent An explanation of the responsibilities of the Directors in respect recommendations from the US for a shorter period of five years.
of the preparation of the accounts is set out on page 68.
The Directors set out on page 63 their view that the business is a The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work going concern.
Under that policy the auditors are prohibited from performing services where the auditors: External audit Following the merger of BHP Limited and Billiton Plc, the may be required to audit their own work incumbent auditors Ernst & Young previously Andersen, KPMG participate in activities that would normally be undertaken and  continued to audit the Group.
by management In June 2002, the Board approved the appointment of KPMG and are remunerated through a success fee structure  as joint auditors for the 2003 financial year.
The Risk Management & Audit Committee conducted a act in an advocacy role for BHP Billiton.
tender for audit services and made recommendations to the A copy of the Policy can be viewed on the website at Board on the appointment of auditors.
The external auditors are permitted to provide non-audit An independent probity auditor, who reported to the Committee services that are not perceived to be in conflict with auditor and the Board, oversaw the tender process.
An approval framework is in place which requires Shareholders will be asked to approve the appointment of the approval for all assignments in excess of US$25 000, with any auditors at each annual general meeting.
assignments greater than US$100 000 subject to approval by the Risk Management & Audit Committee.
All assignments are The Board has delegated to the Risk Management & Audit reported to the Committee.
Committee responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, evaluation and dismissal of external auditors: Details of the amounts paid to the auditors during the year for setting fees and ensuring that the auditors report to the audit and other services are set out in note 7 to the financial Committee and the Board as representatives of shareholders.
statements on page 98 of this Report.
BHP Billiton is committed to audit independence.
The Risk Internal control Management & Audit Committee reviews the independence The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control and objectivity of the external auditors.
and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Those reviews include: The principal aim of the system of internal control is the seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their professional management of business risks, with a view to enhancing the judgement, independent of the Group value of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute obtaining from the external auditors an account of all assurance that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the relationships between the auditors and the Group internal control systems have been designed to meet the Groups monitoring the number of former employees of the external specific needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
auditors currently employed in senior positions in the Group and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence 44 Assessment of business risk The role of internal audit, as approved by the Group Risk During the year, the Board approved the introduction of the Management & Audit Committee, is to: Enterprise Wide Risk Management System at all operations and assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls head office functional areas.
This System forms the cornerstone governing key operational processes and business risks of the risk management activities of the Group.
Its aim is to provide the Board with an assessment, independent of provide the Risk Management & Audit Committee with the management, as to the adequacy of the Groups internal assurance that the major risks facing the Group have been operating and financial controls, systems and practices identified and assessed and that there are controls planned for these risks.
Validation of the risk controls is conducted by assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and a process of control self assessment.
Independent validation regulatory responsibilities is undertaken by internal audit.
provide consulting services to management in order to enhance Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the the control environment and improve business performance.
Groups business environment were regularly reviewed by the Internal audit has developed a risk-based methodology, which Executive Committee and discussed by the Board.
focuses on compliance reviews at the asset and function levels, Monitoring process risk audits at the Customer Sector Group level, and ad hoc Directors monitor risks through the the Risk Management management requests.
& Audit Committee and Internal Audit.
A comprehensive activity report is presented by internal audit Risk Management & Audit Committee to the Risk Management & Audit Committee at each scheduled The composition, role and function of the Risk Management meeting.
& Audit Committee are set out on pages 41 to 42 of this Report.
Review of effectiveness The Terms of Reference of the Risk Management & Audit During the year, the Directors conducted reviews of the Committee include responsibility for the review of internal effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the control systems, including the procedure for identifying business financial year and up to the date of this Report in accordance risks and controlling their financial impact on the Group: the with the Turnbull Guidance.
These reviews covered financial, budgeting, forecasting and financial reporting systems and operations and compliance controls and risk assessment.
controls: the operational effectiveness of the policies and In addition to its consideration of the key risks facing the Group procedures related to risk and control: whether the Turnbull throughout the year, the Boards review included considering Guidance has been followed and approving policies for a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of internal preventing and detecting fraud.
controls over the key risks identified through the work of the The Committee is assisted in its task by the work of Risk Board Committees and Management Committees described Management & Audit Committees established for each of above.
the Customer Sector Groups and key functional areas.
Corporate social responsibility Each half year, the senior executive and Chief Financial Officer BHP Billiton is committed to sustainable development.
of each Customer Sector Group and each of the Marketing, Health, safety, environment and community responsibilities are Finance, Treasury and Development functions are required to integral to the way in which the Group conducts its business.
review internal controls and to provide formal representations A Health, Safety, Environment and Community Report is to the Group Centre and their Risk Management & Audit published each year.
The Report identifies BHP Billitons HSEC Committee, assuring compliance with Group policies and targets and measures its performance against those targets.
procedures and confirming the adequacy of internal control On 4 September 2002, BHP Billiton was admitted into the systems.
These representations are provided to the BHP Billiton Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes DJSI World and Dow Risk Management & Audit Committee.
Jones STOXX Sustainability Index DJSI STOXX for 2002 3.
Internal audit The Report is published at the same time as the Annual Report.
BHP Billiton has an internal audit function.
The Group Risk A copy can be reviewed on the website at www.
com Management & Audit Committee reviews the mission, charter and or obtained by telephoning 44 20 7747 3977. resources of internal audit.
Each Customer Sector Group and key function Risk Management & Audit Committee approves Business conduct and the Charter an annual internal audit plan for the Group for which it has The BHP Billiton Guide to Business Conduct reflects the Charter responsibility.
These plans are reviewed and approved by the values of integrity, respect, trust and openness.
The Guide Group Risk Management & Audit Committee.
provides clear directions and advice on conducting business internationally, interacting with governments, communities and The Committee also approves the appointment and dismissal of business partners, and general workplace behaviour.
It states the head of internal audit and assesses his or her independence BHP Billitons position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues and objectivity.
including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, bribery, insider trading and political contributions.
Managers and 45 Corporate Governance Statement continued supervisors are held accountable not only for their own business In addition to the Combined Code, BHP Billiton complies with but also that of their staff.
The approach to business conduct the following governance guidelines: reflects the Charter, which itself recognises that lasting success is the Corporate Governance Guidance Note published by the built on each employee taking responsibility, achieving high Australian Stock Exchange performance, delivering on commitments and earning trust.
The Guide applies to all employees, regardless of their job or the statements by participants of the Corporate Governance location.
Consultants, contractors and business partners are also Council established by the Australian Stock Exchange dated expected to act in accordance with the Guide.
15 August 2002 BHP Billiton has established regional Helplines as a means by the requirements of the SEC in the US.
which employees can seek guidance on how to make decisions BHP Billiton has policies and procedures that comply with the about which they feel confident and comfortable.
The Helplines recommendations of the Ramsay Report into Independence of also afford employees an opportunity to express issues of Australian Company Auditors.
Employees are encouraged to use the Helplines to report policy violations.
Reports can be made anonymously.
The Group substantially complies with the proposed changes Further details can be found at www.
to the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange on Corporate Governance.
These changes are currently awaiting The Guide to Business Conduct has been revised since the approval from the SEC and include, for example, new merger and is available in six languages.
Internal performance requirements on the role of the audit committee and the requirements regarding business conduct have been established independence of members of that committee.
under the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Management Standards.
Conformance with the Guide has been The US Congress recently passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of incorporated in the Companys HSEC audit program.
This Act introduces a broad range of accounting and corporate governance reforms, Compliance most of which apply to non-US issuers listed in the US or The Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange require UK-listed registrants with the SEC such as BHP Billiton.
Several of these companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the requirements become effective at stages over the next two years Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which and some require clarification through rule-making by the SEC.
are contained in the Combined Code.
The Code establishes However, of the provisions that are immediately effective, the principles dealing with Directors, Directors Remuneration, two most important from the perspective of BHP Billiton are: Relations with Shareholders and Accountability and Audit, all of i complying with the prohibition on loans to Directors and which are addressed in this Statement.
Although the Code only executive officers and ii providing a certification from the applies to UK-listed companies, the Directors consider that it Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer of the information reflects best practice and report that, save for the matter included in BHP Billitons annual report to be filed with the SEC.
reported below, BHP Billiton has complied with the provisions set BHP Billiton will comply with these requirements.
out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
The Act includes additional requirements regarding eligibility Shareholders may recall that resolutions to receive the report of audit committee members and duties of the audit committee, and accounts as required in Section 1 of the Code, were not auditing independence, internal control procedures, proposed at the 2001 Annual General Meetings because whistleblower protections and enhanced disclosures of offregulatory and administrative issues associated with the Dual balance sheet arrangements, pro-forma financial information Listed Companies merger made it difficult to distribute the report and codes of ethics.
BHP Billiton substantially complies with and accounts for both companies to all shareholders.
difficulties have been largely overcome and shareholders will be invited to receive the report and accounts at the Annual General Meetings this year.
Copies of both sets of reports and accounts will be posted on the website at www.
Copies can also be obtained by calling 44 20 7747 3977.
