General insurance net written premiums million Health premiums million 1998 6,782 10,623 1998 277 1999 7,699 11,227 1999 402 2000 8,356 12,203 2000 687 2001 7,850 9,536 2001 841 2002 928 2002 7,805 8,497 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Netherlands In the Netherlands, where Delta Lloyd is a top-five general insurer, we primarily target small to medium commercial insurance sold through intermediaries.
We also operate a direct channel under the OHRA brand aimed at individuals, and our new bancassurance agreement with ABN AMRO will offer further opportunities in 2003 to cross-sell general insurance products.
Our emphasis is on careful underwriting and we have withdrawn from unprofitable classes of business.
We also introduced an affordable and very successful private motor policy in May 2002.
Nevertheless our result suffered following storms in October, the We have begun an Intelligent Underwriting programme, which worst for 16 years, and spending on a new shared service centre.
combines systems technology and working more closely with This initiative is expected to provide efficiency and customer service brokers at the point of sale.
This is already producing benefits by benefits and is targeted to launch by the end of 2003.
As a result helping us to identify acceptable risks within the small to mediumwe achieved an operating profit of 13 million 2001: 19 million sized business market.
on net premiums written of 412 million 2001: 387 million.
In addition, we have devoted significant effort to improving Healthcare insurance provides over half our premium income, customer service through more efficient resolution of claims, and and we aim to become the best online health insurer in the are introducing the Total Incident Management concept developed Netherlands.
In an effort to improve our service for customers, by Norwich Union in the UK.
Another important initiative is our we are the only Dutch insurer to limit the wait for all hospital broker portal, which provides personal lines policy information to operations to a maximum of two weeks.
A new initiative aimed at the self-employed and small Net premiums written rose to 1,009 million 2001: 878 million, to medium-sized businesses is our sick leave policy, which together with an operating profit of 80 million 2001: 72 million.
provides income protection during the first year of illness.
Our complementary sick leave management programme helps Asia employees return to work as soon as they are able.
Our Asian general insurance operations continued to perform strongly.
We were voted best overall insurer for the third successive Other Europe time in the Singapore International Insurance Brokers Awards.
In July we sold our Spanish general insurance business and the brand name Plus Ultra for 152 million.
We also agreed the sale of Australia and New Zealand a number of other small general insurance businesses in Portugal, In October 2002 we agreed to sell our general insurance Switzerland, Greece and Malta.
These operations did not offer the businesses in Australia and New Zealand for 651 million.
potential for market-leading positions or superior returns.
The price was equivalent to 6% of our market capitalisation: by contrast, these operations accounted for just 2% of our group Canada premiums and profit.
The results of these businesses are shown CGU Canada which rebrands to Aviva later in 2003 has been as discontinued operations.
It is our second-largest general insurance operation by premium income.
Through a network of independent insurance brokers, we provide a broad range of traditional products and services.
In addition, we underwrite a number of specialist products.
Creating better processes, pricing strategies and customer service are the three main pillars of our general insurance strategy in Canada.
We aim to have a strong position in each of our regional markets and are committed to profitable growth.
19 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Corporate social responsibility People This year, for the first time, our CSR report covers performance in the areas of workforce, human rights and health and safety according to the parameters of the Gyllenhammar report.
These guidelines were the outcome of a group convened by the European Commission under our own chairman, Pehr Gyllenhammar.
Initiatives designed to benefit our employees include the involvement of hundreds of call centre staff in the UK in a work-life balance project sponsored by the Department of Trade and Industry to test a range of flexible working arrangements.
Overview Our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd, won the diversity award from the As a company with 59,000 employees serving nearly one million Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers VNO-NCW shareholders and 25 million customers around the world, we for encouraging female staff to take up senior positions.
recognise our responsibility to help sustain and build the Communities communities in which we live and work.
We recognise our responsibility to work in partnership with the Substantial progress has been made in Avivas corporate social communities in which we operate.
In 2002, Aviva invested over responsibility CSR programme over the past year.
We issued our 5.9 million in community initiatives worldwide.
first CSR report in April 2002, having produced an environment Examples include our sponsorship of crime prevention activities, report in each of the previous three years.
In 2002, our programme including a national community scheme with Crime Concern in the covered 93% of the group.
UK and Neighbourhood Watch in Canada.
Commercial Union CSR embraces performance in environmental management, Poland celebrated its 10th anniversary by encouraging staff, agents community, employees, human rights, health and safety, and clients to become involved in voluntary work, in addition to suppliers, customers and standards of business conduct.
continuing support for healthcare and education initiatives.
In the Czech Republic we responded to the widespread floods in August Environment 2002 by launching an appeal among our staff and insurance Our environmental programme continues to move ahead strongly.
The money we raised helped to rebuild a kindergarten For example, in the UK approximately 30% of our electricity is now and repair a local health centre.
We also ask would-be suppliers in the UK for details of their environmental and Charities human rights performance.
The bulk of our charitable support in the UK is concentrated on three organisations: Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Cruse Our businesses in Europe, Asia, Australia and North America have Bereavement Care, and The Princess Royal Trust for Carers.
environmental initiatives in place to reduce waste, increase In addition, we raised 220,580 for the Alzheimers Society, recycling and manage their use of energy resources.
In Canada, voted as our 2002 UK staff charity of the year.
like the UK, we include environmental performance questions in our tendering process.
In France we direct our charity support through the Aviva Foundation, which works mainly with children and the elderly.
We also chaired a working group under the United Nations We raised 128,800 for the United Way in Canada, a charity Environment Programme which, in January 2003, produced dedicated to building caring communities, and took part in international guidelines on environmental management and fundraising for the Canadian Paraplegic Association.
In Australia reporting practice for financial services organisations.
we launched a Guiding Star Workplace Giving programme to support six major charities.
Customer service Our businesses strive to provide our customers with a service hallmarked by integrity, quality and care.
In the UK, innovative products such as Pay As You Drive insurance and a revolutionary digital flood map to help calculate fairer premiums are examples of how our core businesses help to meet our CSR goals.
20 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
