Corporate Governance Background When a new director is appointed he or she receives a The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to training seminar which is held by the Manager.
"Directors are disclose how they have applied the principles and complied also provided on a regular basis with key information on the with the provisions of the Combined Code the ""Code""."
Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors Application of the Codes Principles responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Board attaches great importance to the matters set out in the Code and observes its principles.
It should be noted The Board has established Audit and Management that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to Engagement Committees.
The Management Engagement day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the Committee which consists of all the independent nondirectors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions executive directors, with defined terms of reference, is of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
responsible for the review of the terms of the management contract with the Manager.
The Audit The Board and Committees Committee consists of three of the independent nonThe Board currently consists of six non-executive executive directors, with defined terms of reference and directors, the majority of whom are independent of duties.
This committee is responsible for the review of the Henderson Global Investors Limited the Manager.
annual accounts and the interim report, terms of Their biographies, on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of appointment of the auditors, together with their investment, commercial and professional experience.
remuneration as well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors.
It meets with representatives of the The Board meets at least nine times a year and deals with Manager and receives reports on the quality and the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including effectiveness of the accounting records and management the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The review of investment performance.
The Manager takes Board has also established a Nominations Committee, decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
with defined terms of reference and duties, to make The Manager also ensures that all directors receive in a timely recommendations on the appointment of new directors.
manner all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, Board meeting enabling the directors to probe further on subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
and in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting have been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, following their appointment.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The The directors will retire every three years to ensure directors have access to the advice and services of the compliance with the Code.
The names of the directors corporate company secretary through its appointed retiring by rotation at this years AGM are given representative who is responsible to the Board for on page 18. ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Directors Remuneration applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration The Chairman is an independent non-executive director.
and therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration A senior non-executive director has not been identified as Committee.
Since all directors are non-executive, the the Board considers that all the directors have different Company is not required to comply with the principles of qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead the Code in respect of executive directors remuneration.
where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
Directors fees are detailed in note 7 to the Accounts.
36 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control not employ any staff.
The Board will continue to monitor The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the its system of internal control in order to provide assurance accounts is set out on page 20.
The report of the auditors is that it operates as intended and the directors will review set out on page 21.
The Board has delegated contractually from time to time whether a function equivalent to an to external third parties the management of the investment internal audit is needed.
portfolio, together with the day to day accounting, company Relations with Shareholders secretarial and administration requirements, as well as The Board is keen that the AGM is a participative event custodial services which include the safeguarding of the which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Each contract was entered The AGM is attended by the Chairman of the Board, into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the Management Engagement and Nominations Committees, quality and cost of the services offered.
as well as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Proxy The Board receives and considers regular reports from the votes are relayed to those present.
The Manager makes a Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied presentation to shareholders and answers questions on to the Board as required.
The Manager has established an investment performance.
The Company has adopted a internal control framework to provide reasonable but not nominee share code which is set out on page 40. absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal The Notice of Meeting on page 38 sets out the controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness business of the AGM and the special resolutions are of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on compliance and risk department on a continuing basis.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each The Board has established a process for identifying, substantive issue.
evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Socially Responsible Investment Company.
This process is subject to regular review by the Good corporate governance extends to a companys Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for policies on the environment, employment, human rights Directors on the Combined Code published in September and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
The process was fully in increasingly important role in global economic activity and place from 17 November 2000 and up to the date of the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a approval of this annual report.
The Board is responsible companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of overall for the Companys system of internal control and government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is damage to its business or reputation.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and This companys policy is to examine and monitor the can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance policies and actions of the companies in which it invests.
against material misstatement or loss.
Its overriding objective remains the maximisation of shareholders total return.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual review of the Companys system of internal control Exercise of Voting Powers and the business risks have been analysed and recorded The Company has approved a corporate governance in a risk map.
The Board receives each quarter from the voting policy which accords with current best practice Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager, and which Statement of Compliance reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The directors consider that the Company has complied with all the material provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code The Company does not have an internal audit function: it throughout the accounting period to 31 October 2002. delegates to third parties most of its operations and does 37
