BBS00031P Inners2 25 2 03 3:07 pm Page 34 34 Bradford & Bingley plc 35 Bradfor Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Corporate governance Bradford & Bingley is committed to high standards of corporate governance in its business The Directors confirm that for the year they are fully conversant with their During 2002, the Audit, Risk and Compliance Sharehold ended 31 December 2002 the Company responsibilities as a Director and with the Committee considered issues concerning The Com complied with the provisions of the business of Bradford & Bingley.
Throughout auditors and their conflicts of interest.
communic Combined Code the Code as issued by their period in office, they are updated on The business recognises the importance of whether t the UK Listing Authority.
The Code contains Bradford & Bingley business, the competitive internal and external auditors independence employee both general principles of good governance and regulatory environment in which it and has adopted principles, as follows, to Financial S and detailed requirements.
The purpose of operates and other changes as they occur: safeguard this: key facts a this Corporate Governance section together All Directors have access to the advice is distribut with the Directors Remuneration Report is and services of the Company Secretary, the business will continue, where sharehold to explain how the Company has applied the who is responsible for ensuring that Board appropriate, to use the internal and external presentati governance principles set out in the Code.
procedures and applicable rules and auditors for non-audit work: available o regulations are observed.
The Directors the business recognises the need for The Com The Board are able to take independent professional transparency around the services being communic The Directors apply principles of good advice at the Companys expense.
provided and for a central independent fund mana governance by adopting the following overview: publicly av procedures and policies: Principal Board committees there is appropriate approval for non-audit performan The Directors manage the Group by means work to ensure the auditors independence The Board meets a minimum of ten times of meetings of the Board and a number of is not conflicted: and At each A per year to review operational performance committees, each of which has detailed terms the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is a review against plans and budgets and to consider of reference.
The principal Board committees monitors audit and non-audit fees paid.
in the pre possible new developments.
This includes are the Audit, Risk & Compliance, the welcome one meeting devoted entirely to strategic Nominations and the Remuneration The Nominations Committee is responsible of shareho matters.
The Board has adopted a structure Committees.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance for reviewing the composition of the Board, the Board of mandates, granted to individuals and and the Remuneration Committees comprise recommending new appointments to the committees, throughout the Group, whilst only independent non-executive Directors.
Board and reviewing re-elections when they In connec retaining specified matters for its exclusive The members of these committees are become due.
complies w decision: identified on pages 26 and 27. relates to The roles of Chairman and Group Chief The Remuneration Committee reviews the separation Executive are distinct and the offices are The role of the Audit, Risk & Compliance remuneration and contractual arrangements of commit held by different people: Committee is to monitor the effectiveness of of the executive Directors and senior Notice of The Board consists of six non-executive and the Group's risk management process and its executives, and also the operation of share least 20 b three executive Directors.
It is the opinion financial and other internal control systems plans and options schemes established by ensure tha of the Board that all the non-executive including effective internal audit, risk the Company.
in which t Directors are independent and bring wide management and compliance functions and experience from varied backgrounds to the to review the Group's accounting policies, Internal c working of the Board.
Trevor Lewis is the Financial Statements and external reporting The Board senior independent non-executive Director: responsibilities.
Its role also extends to system of The Board reviews its constitution at meeting the external auditors and receiving all effectivene appropriate intervals and each Director is reports by them addressed to the Group and designed t subject to re-election every three years in to undertaking corporate governance and operation line with the Articles of Association: other duties as required by the Financial and regula For new Directors an appropriate training Services and Markets Act 2000 and applicable provide re programme is established to ensure that regulations made under it.
against ma designed t risk of fail BBS00031P Inners2 25 2 03 3:07 pm Page 35 35 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 mpliance Shareholder relations Throughout the year ended 31 December The Board reviews the effectiveness of the ning The Company is committed to on-going 2002 the Group has operated a system of system of internal control.
The system has t. communication across the shareholder base, internal control, which includes an on-going risk been in place throughout 2002 and up to the nce of whether to institutional investors, private or management process for identifying, evaluating date of approval of the Annual Report & ndence employee shareholders.
The Summary and managing the significant risks faced by the Accounts.
It accords with the Turnbull s, to Financial Statement, which summarises Group.
During the year the Board has Committee guidance.
key facts about the Groups performance, continued to review and, where necessary, is distributed to the majority of private update the risk management process and the In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of shareholders.
All announcements, policies and procedures by which these internal control the Board takes into account d external presentations and press releases are significant risks are managed.
The Board has the work of the Audit, Risk & Compliance available on the website at www.
co. uk also performed an annual assessment of the Committee which receives reports from the or The Company engages in effective two-way effectiveness of internal controls.
Changes in Group Risk Committee on the Groups eing communication with institutional investors, financial regulation continue within the significant risks and how these are being dent fund managers and analysts to discuss industry, and the Groups risk management managed, with any significant risk issues publicly available information on its strategy, processes are designed to operate to ensure referred to the Board for consideration.
It on-audit performance and policies.
that the Group responds appropriately both also considers reports from internal audit, endence to actual and proposed regulatory changes.
external audit, compliance and management At each Annual General Meeting AGM there on the system of internal control, adherence mittee is a review of the Company's performance The Groups management operates a risk to regulatory requirements, any material paid.
in the preceding year and the Directors management process producing a Group-wide control weaknesses, and actions taken to welcome the opportunity to gather the views risk profile that identifies the Groups address problem areas identified.
The onsible of shareholders who can ask questions of significant risks, the probability of those risks Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Board, the Board.
occurring and their impact should they occur, Committee reports on the outcome of each the and has the prime responsibility for the design meeting to the Board, and the Board also en they In connection with the AGM, the Company and operation of suitable controls and receives minutes of each Audit, Risk & complies with the Combined Code as it mitigating actions.
This is complemented by Compliance Committee meeting.
relates to the disclosure of proxy voting, the a formalised reporting and escalation process ws the separation of resolutions and the attendance for control issues.
Internal audit has a key role Going concern ements of committee chairmen.
In addition, the in maintaining the control environment by The Directors confirm that they are satisfied r Notice of the AGM is sent out to arrive at providing independent assurance on the that the Company has sufficient resources share least 20 business days before the Meeting to effectiveness of the Groups internal control to continue in operation for the foreseeable d by ensure that shareholders have sufficient time systems.
The Group Risk Committee oversees future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt in which to consider the items of business.
the risk management process, considers the the going concern basis in preparing the Group-wide risk profile on a monthly basis Financial Statements.
Internal control and receives monitoring reports to update The Board is responsible for the Groups them on progress.
Further information on system of internal control and for reviewing its risk management and control is set out on effectiveness.
The system of internal control is pages 22 and 23. designed to ensure effective and efficient operations and compliance with relevant laws The Group is committed to developing and and regulations.
Such a system can only maintaining an appropriate risk management provide reasonable and not absolute assurance culture in all areas.
This is achieved through an against material misstatement or loss, as it is organisational structure with clear reporting designed to manage rather than eliminate the lines and governed by appropriate business risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
monitoring mechanisms, codes of conduct and policy statements.
