Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 17 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 December 2002 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance in the belief that such standards are essential to the process of delivering long term growth in profits and dividends.
The following statement describes how the principles of good corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
Board of Directors The company is managed through the Board of directors, which comprises four executive and three non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors are shown on page 13.
Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, with other meetings being held as required.
There are a number of matters specically reserved for Board approval including overall group strategy, significant acquisitions, investment and capital expenditure decisions as well as group nancing and dividend policy.
At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full financial and business review and discussion, which includes the comparison of trading performance to date against the annual budget and any other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board Pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the executive directors on their specic areas of responsibilities, together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the meeting.
Board papers are usually sent out one week before the meeting to enable a comprehensive review of the relevant issues.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their responsibilities are clearly dened.
The Chairman is mainly responsible for the running of the Board whilst the Chief Executives responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the companys business and formulating and implementing group strategy.
The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that the strategies and policies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only with regard to the best long term interests of the shareholders, but also having regard to the companys relationship with its employees, customers and suppliers.
The non-executive directors are considered to be independent in that they neither have any involvement in the day-to-day management of the company or its subsidiaries nor represent a major shareholder group.
They each hold, or have held, senior positions in other major UK organisations, thus bringing a range of experience to the Board, and participate in all key decisions facing the group.
D A Haxby has been appointed the senior non-executive director.
The executive and non-executive directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who has responsibility for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and for assisting the Board in ensuring that the company is in compliance with its legal obligations.
In addition, the Board has an established procedure whereby any director may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
In accordance with the Code, all directors must submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Standing Committees of the Board The Board has established three standing committees, each with a formal constitution, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the three non-executive directors under the chairmanship of N N Broadhurst.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include monitoring the appropriateness of accounting policies, financial reporting and internal controls and keeping under review the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of the external and internal audits and the independence of the groups external auditors.
The Committee calls upon the external auditors, the internal auditors and risk assurance advisers and the executive directors to attend formal meetings as required.
These meetings are held three times each year at which the matters referred to below under the heading Internal Control and Risk Management are considered.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee comprises only the non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the senior independent director, D A Haxby.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 20 to 29 contains further information on the Remuneration Committee and remuneration policy.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the three non-executive directors and the Chief Executive, under the chairmanship of B Cottingham.
It meets on an ad hoc basis to propose to the Board any new appointments of executive or non-executive directors.
18 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders The group maintains a close relationship with its major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director Treasury & Risk Management maintain regular contact with institutional shareholders.
The annual general meeting is seen as an opportunity to communicate with other shareholders and all directors are expected to attend.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the annual general meeting.
Information relating to this years annual general meeting can be found on pages 61 to 63.
In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating to the trading or development of the group are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
co. uk, includes a section focusing specically on investor relations.
All company announcements are accessible on the website once made.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting The directors believe that the annual report presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and future prospects.
The Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review, which can be found on pages 4 to 9, together provide a detailed assessment of the groups affairs.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described within the Report of the Directors on page 15.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the groups internal control system, which embraces all risks faced by the organisation, including business, operational and compliance risks.
The directors recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and as such the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group has continued to comply with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Committee in a document entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull guidance, through an ongoing process to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and non-financial, the groups perceived tolerance or commercial appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure.
This process, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six monthly basis.
Such reviews have been conducted during the financial year.
The principal features of the groups internal control system can be summarised as follows: A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive management supported by established policies and procedures.
Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major business risks facing the group are identied and that appropriate policies are developed for the management of those risks.
The Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Risks are identied and evaluated by reference to impact and likelihood through a series of structured, high level interviews and facilitated risk management workshops.
The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for the provision of a complete range of internal audit and risk assurance services, with a direct reporting link to the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group.
The work of the groups external risk assurance provider focuses on the groups most significant areas of risk and, by a formal process of six monthly risk monitoring and reporting, allows the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group to assess whether key control objectives are achieved.
A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors, the groups external risk assurance providers and other key members of senior management, reviews key group risks together with the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
The Risk Management Group meets twice yearly, reporting to the Audit Committee.
Delegation of the responsibility for ongoing maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, specically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk proles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
The group is continuing to develop its risk management framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all areas of the groups operations.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covers income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium term plans are approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 19 Adoption of a schedule of matters specically reserved for the approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance issues.
The Board has identied a number of key areas, which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the group.
Independence of Auditors Both the Audit Committee and the auditors have in place safeguards to avoid the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
The groups policy with regard to services provided by the external auditors, , is as follows: Statutory audit services: The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also provide regulatory services and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an ongoing basis.
Tax compliance and further assurance services: Tax compliance involves dealing with the groups corporation tax returns.
Further assurance services include work relating to acquisitions and disposals.
The groups policy is to normally appoint  to undertake this work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
Tax advisory: These services include tax planning and structuring advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The groups policy is that each individual assignment is assessed separately depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the relevant work.
Other non-audit services: The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice subsequent to 2002 and information technology services.
The provision of other non-audit services is assessed on a case-by-case basis, depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the work.
These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain appropriate.
The appointment of  to provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the  audit team.
 have formally confirmed their independence to the Board.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to  during the year is included in note 2 to the financial statements, on page 37.
Combined Code Compliance The directors consider that throughout the accounting period the company complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Going Concern Under company law, the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the basis that the company and the group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the group prepares annual and longer term plans and, in reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups financial statements.
By order of the Board Patrick Doherty Company Secretary 6 March 2003
