Corporate governance The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
Board and committees The board comprised five executive directors including the chief executive and six non-executive directors including the chairman at 30 September 2002.
Roberto Mendoza was appointed as an additional non-executive director on 9 October 2002.
Biographies of each of the directors and their board committee memberships can be found on pages 8 and 9.
The non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the board and are all considered by the board to be independent.
Gran Lundberg is the senior independent director, having been appointed to this role in November 2001.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
This has been the case since 1994.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board which includes the review of strategic and policy issues.
These matters are reviewed annually at a combined board and strategy meeting lasting over a period of two days, with updates provided to the board on a regular basis.
The board meets six times a year, with two meetings being held at major operating subsidiaries of The BOC Group, one at a location outside the UK.
There are six principal board committees and further details can be found on page 9.
All the independent non-executive directors are members of both the audit and management resources committees with the exception of the independent non-executive chairman who attends by invitation.
The nomination committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors and the chief executive.
In addition to ensuring the timely issue of board meeting papers, regular reports on the company and market sector activity together with updates on governance and regulatory matters affecting BOC are provided to the board.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and there is a well established procedure enabling any director, in the furtherance of his or her duties, to seek independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive directors have in ensuring high governance standards and the BOC board has for many years had a significant non-executive element of high calibre.
The nomination committee identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies for approval by the board as a whole.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term after which their appointment, whilst not automatic, may be extended subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The non-executive directors have full access to both management and internal and external auditors, and are encouraged to stay fully abreast of the Groups business through site visits and meetings with senior management.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account existing qualification and experience.
During October 2002 the directors completed a self evaluation which included a review of processes and arrangements for the board and the audit, management resources and nomination committees.
The findings and recommendations for change are currently being implemented including a more comprehensive training and induction programme for directors.
Directors and officers The directors holding office at the date of this report are named on pages 8 and 9.
Each of the following new non-executive directors were appointed: Rob Margetts on 4 October 2001, Fabiola Arredondo on 8 November 2001, Matthew Miau on 23 January 2002 and Roberto Mendoza on 9 October 2002.
At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 18 January 2002 Sir David John stepped down as chairman.
He also retired as a non-executive director, as did Howard Macdonald and Harry Groome.
The officers of the company are the executive directors and other members of the executive management board as named on pages 10 and 11.
All held office throughout the year ended 30 September 2002 and there have been no changes up to the date of this report.
51 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Corporate governance Directors remuneration The management resources committee review and make recommendations to the board on remuneration policy.
A report on remuneration is set out on pages 56 to 63.
Communications with shareholders The board considers communications with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
Results are published quarterly, and half year and annual reviews are sent to all shareholders.
A copy of the full report and accounts is available by election or on request.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question directors.
The chairmen of each of the board committees are present at the meeting.
During the year responses are given to letters received from shareholders on a variety of subjects.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
com provides financial and other business information about The BOC Group.
Accountability and audit Statements of the respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors for these accounts are set out on pages 64 and 65.
To enhance further the confidence of investors in the independence of the independent auditors and their report, the board of BOC has introduced a policy that defines which other services  may or may not provide to BOC.
The policy requires the provision of these services to be approved in advance by the audit committee of the board.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 2 c to the financial statements.
Risk management and internal controls This statement of compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in respect of risk management and internal controls is in line with the arrangements set out by the UK Listing Authority.
The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board ensures that the directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Risk management The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business risk.
Introduced in 2001, the risk management programme is supported by a dedicated central team of risk specialists.
To ensure all parts of the Group have a firm understanding of risk, the central team has led over 100 risk workshops and reviews around the world in the past two years.
These risk assessments have been broad, covering: risks in strategy: risks in achieving commitments contained in performance contracts: risks in organisational change: risks associated with major projects: and risks involving acquisitions.
The risk management process operates throughout BOC and is applied equally to the global lines of business, the business units and corporate functions.
The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks with associated action plans to mitigate them.
Line managers are responsible for these action plans and their progress is reported, as required, as part of their performance contract reviews.
As part of the strategy review conducted in 2002, BOC has identified six areas that have to be managed well to achieve our objectives.
These are: managing growth within a competitive environment, managing the challenges in Asia, the semiconductor cycle, pricing and productivity, managing change successfully and understanding the global economic environment and its impact on BOCs plans.
A report is made to the board twice a year.
Line of business chief executives made presentations to the board in May and October 2002, covering actions which had been completed and the status of continuing action plans to manage the Groups key risks.
The risks reviewed include those described in the risk factors section on pages 29 and 30.
BOC views risk management as integral to good business practice.
The programme is designed to support managements decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
BOC will continue to embed the management of risk into all its management processes.
52 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Internal controls The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment and implementation of a system of internal controls appropriate to the various business environments in which it operates.
The Group operates under a system of controls that has been developed and refined over time to meet its current and future needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls, which are communicated through various operating and procedural manuals and processes, include but are not limited to: the definition of the organisational structure and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
procedures for the review and authorisation of capital investments through the investment committee including post-acquisition reviews and appraisals.
strategic planning and the related annual planning and re-forecasting process including the ongoing review by the board of the Groups strategies.
the establishment of individual business unit annual performance targets and the quarterly business review of actual performance.
the monthly financial reporting and review of financial results and other operating statistics such as the health and safety reports as well as the Groups published quarterly financial statements, which are based on a standardised reporting process.
accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
specific treasury policies and objectives and the ongoing reporting and review of all significant transactions and financing operations.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results to management and the audit committee of the board on the Groups operations.
The work of the internal auditors is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined on the basis of a risk management approach to audit.
There have been regular reviews by the audit committee of the board of the effectiveness of the Groups overall internal control processes throughout the year and up to the date of this report and accounts.
The directors therefore believe that the Groups system of risk management and internal controls provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this report and accounts.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Group chief executive and Group finance director, after evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in US Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 c within 90 days of the date of this report, have concluded that, as of such date, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to the Group was made known to them by others within the Group particularly during the period in which this annual report and accounts was being prepared.
There were no significant changes in the Groups internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date the Group chief executive and Group finance director completed their evaluation, nor were there any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the Groups internal controls requiring corrective actions.
Going concern The directors report on going concern is included in the finance and treasury review on page 50.
Compliance The board has applied the principles contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and during the year has moved to a position of full compliance in the following areas: a on 8 November 2001 Gran Lundberg was appointed to the role of senior independent non-executive director: and b the share award plan, established in 2000 following the lapse of the offer by Air Liquide and Air Products to provide a mid-term incentive for senior managers, vested in June 2002.
No further awards have been, or will be, made under the plan.
Further details can be found on page 58.
With regard to executive directors service contracts, the company has recently moved to a policy for all executive directors, which policy is in the course of being implemented, of service contracts that can be terminated by the company on one years notice and an explanation can be found on page 58.
Directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years in accordance with the companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code.
53 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Corporate governance Corporate social investment In 2002, The BOC Groups corporate social investment programme had three key objectives.
The first was to continue to focus on projects designed to improve environmental stewardship.
The second was to continue to devolve the choices of social investment donations to our employees.
The third was to broaden the organisations involvement in social programmes around the world.
BOC made a number of positive contributions to environmental projects including the BOC New Zealand Community Environmental Grants Programme which provides assistance to schools and community groups.
Together with the New Zealand Water Environment Research Foundation, we now manage a scheme providing funding to help communities maintain, protect and improve their water environment.
Our environmental flagship remains the UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, which was established with an initial injection of 1 million in 1990.
The Foundation has so far supported 110 projects focusing on waste management, water quality and pollution control.
This year, the Group contributed 214,000 to the Foundation and saw 11 new projects come on stream.
Since the Foundations inception BOC has donated 3.5 million.
Combined funding from BOC and its co-sponsoring partners now exceeds 11 million.
As in previous years, BOC has managed a balanced charitable donations programme in which we direct our resources at areas where we feel we can make a difference or where our employees have a direct involvement.
Social investment projects around the world have increased in number since last year and retain a local context.
In 2002, BOC made charitable donations totalling 1.28 million including 458,000 to UK-registered charities through direct donations from the company and matched giving.
As in previous years, no political donations were made in the UK.
At a local level, BOC employees have continued to involve themselves in charitable fundraising and voluntary support.
To this end, our matched giving scheme again proved its worth as a way of aligning corporate funding with the personal generosity of BOC employees.
Matched giving schemes have been operating in the UK, the Americas and the south Pacific for some time, but this year there has been a marked increase in employee involvement.
In the course of 2002, BOC in the UK donated a record 245,000 included in the UK total above through the Charities Aid Foundation to match employee beneficence a rise of 38 per cent on the previous year.
In the US, BOCs employees contributed a record sum equivalent to 80,000.
In addition to the numerous causes supported through matched giving, we also supported a number of projects on a Group basis, including the Royal British Legion, Childrens Direct Aid and ProShare.
We also launched the BOC Emerging Artist Award in March to encourage and support a committed UK-based artist for a year.
We were delighted with the interest this received and are pleased to say the 2002 award was won by Royal College of Art graduate Simon Keenleyside, from Raleigh, Essex.
Simon emerged as the overall winner of the 20,000 bursary from nearly 200 other young artists from across the UK.
Outside the UK, the development of community programmes also rests in the hands of our local companies, each one being responsible for its own project selection and funding.
This devolved approach, both inside and outside the UK, has resulted in the funding of a rich variety of programmes that are truly relevant to the communities in which BOC companies operate.
In the US, through a combination of financial support and many hours of volunteer involvement, BOC and its employees continued to assist the United Way charitable appeal, helping to make a difference in many deprived sectors of the community.
BOC in the US also pursued a number of other projects including a Science Can Be Fun day for teenagers, a day spent building wheelchair access ramps to allow disabled girls to attend Girl Scout summer camps and a drive to collect used mobile phones to be distributed to local women at risk from domestic abuse.
In the south Pacific, our employees requested that the company matches their fundraising in relation to three charities a year.
In Australia, employees chose the Salvation Armys Red Shield Appeal, Daffodil Day, a fundraising event for cancer research, education and patient support, and Jeans for Genes, an international campaign that raises funds for research into genetic disorders.
In New Zealand, our employees selected Daffodil Day, the Westpac Rescue Helicopter and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
54 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 BOC in Australia already has an established relationship with the Malcolm Sargent Cancer Fund for Children.
BOC employees have renewed and deepened this relationship with additional financial contributions and employee support through volunteering and fundraising activities.
In South Africa, BOCs subsidiary Afrox and its staff continued to support the companys community involvement process, which includes the management of 115 projects to improve the lives of disadvantaged young people.
Once more, the highlight of the year was Bumbanani meaning lets build together Day when 8,000 children attended events hosted by BOC staff.
This year, in celebration of Afroxs 75th anniversary, the company contributed an additional 96,000 to its social investment fund, increasing its Bumbanani activities and lifting the sum spent on good causes to 192,000.
This years Bumbanani activities reached 1,000 more children than they did last year.
In addition, Afrox hospitals engage in a wide range of health care and safety initiatives, including sponsorship of the South African Heart Foundation.
This year, the first Mended Hearts support group and cardiac rehabilitation team to assist people in their recuperation and rehabilitation after heart surgery, was launched in Cape Town from the Vincent Pallotti hospital.
Some Afrox hospitals have a special outreach in the form of rape crisis centres.
Medical examinations are conducted in a non-threatening environment with the emphasis placed on maintaining the dignity of the victim.
Preventive medication is given for the contraction of sexually transmitted diseases as well as antiretroviral drugs.
BOC and its employees have also been active in many other markets.
BOC in Pakistan, for example, has been running a social investment programme for some time, particularly in support of leading medical institutions.
This year, support continued for: the Layton Rehmatulla Benevolent Trust, an organisation dedicated to providing free eye care: the Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre: the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital, the first institution in Pakistan dedicated to cancer treatment: and the Aga Khan Medical Hospital and Foundation.
BOC was one of the founding contributors to the Aga Khan Foundation which runs a world class university hospital affiliated to the Harvard Medical School.
In Venezuela, we donated funds and helium balloons to schools and orphanages and breathing oxygen to local fire stations.
In Curacao, we channel support through the local Rotary Club and contributed to various youth education and care for the elderly projects.
In India, we made a number of contributions across a range of community welfare interests.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on Friday 17 January 2003 commencing at 11.00 am.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which includes explanations of all resolutions, is contained in a separate circular which is being sent to all shareholders more than 20 working days before the meeting.
Resolutions will seek approval to the following: a receipt of the report and accounts: b reappointment of Matthew Miau, Roberto Mendoza, Gran Lundberg, Ren Mdori, and Raj Rajagopal as directors: c reappointment of  as auditors and granting authority to the directors to fix their remuneration: d the dividend policy: e the directors remuneration report and the remuneration policy: f amendment to the rules of the all-employee share option scheme: g establishment of a new long-term incentive plan and executive share option scheme: h political donations and expenditure pursuant to the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000: i renewal of the authority of the directors to allot shares: j renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: and k granting of general authority for the company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of ten per cent of issued share capital.
No purchases were made following last years authority.
The report of the directors has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Nick Deeming Secretary Windlesham, 22 November 2002 55 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
