CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 To ensure the appropriate level of corporate governance, the Board has put in place arrangements it believes are suitable for a Group carrying on insurance business and associated financial activities and which enable the Company to comply with Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code published in June 1998.
The relevant principles of governance are applied to the Group, excluding associated companies, in the following way: THE BOARD There are currently four Non-executive Directors.
Three of them meet the criteria laid down in the Combined Code as currently stated and are wholly independent of the management.
The exception, Mr Heath, is a former Executive Director of the Company and as such is deemed, within the terms of the Combined Code, not to be independent of the management.
Messrs Elson and Newman represent the interests of two of the major shareholders, Palamon European Equity LP and Warburg Pincus Ventures LP respectively.
In the opinion of the Board this does not impair their independence and their challenging of the Executive is both thorough and professional.
Mr Clegg is Deputy Chairman and as such is the Senior Non-executive Director.
The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for specified periods with the exception of Mr Elson and Mr Newman.
The Company has agreed with Palamon European Equity LP that provided the Palamon Funds hold more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital, Palamon has the right to nominate a person for election as a Director of the Company.
Under the terms of the Warburg Pincus Subscription Agreement dated 29 March 1996: If, neither Warburg Pincus nor Warburg Pincus Ventures has disposed of any share in the Company acquired by it in the Subscription subject to certain limited exceptions the Company has agreed to appoint two WP directors to hold office for so long as Warburg Pincus, Warburg Pincus Ventures and certain Warburg Pincus related parties together own in excess of 15% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, and one Warburg Pincus director for so long as the percentage shareholding exceeds 10% but is 15% or less.
If at any time Warburg Pincus or Warburg Pincus Ventures disposes of any share in the Company acquired by it in the Subscription subject to certain limited exceptions the Company has agreed to appoint two WP directors to hold office for so long as Warburg Pincus, Warburg Pincus Ventures and certain Warburg Pincus related parties together retain in excess of 20% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, and one WP director for so long as the percentage shareholding exceeds 10% but is 20% or less.
At the present time, Warburg Pincus has only appointed one director.
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation.
The Companys current Articles of Association state that one third of the Directors will retire by rotation each year.
This does not ensure that every Director is subject to re-election every three years as is required under the Combined Code.
The Company has adopted the policy that all Directors will be subject to re-election at least at every third Annual General Meeting and thus complies with the provisions of the Combined Code in practice.
The Board meets once every two months and at other times as may be necessary.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and, where necessary, in the discharge of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
There has been no call on the latter during the year under review.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has a schedule of matters that it reserves for itself, which is reviewed annually.
These matters cover approval of accounts and dividends, significant changes to accounting policies, approval of all circulars and listing particulars required by the Financial Services Authority, changes to the membership of the Board and its committees, approval of the Groups commercial strategy and annual operating budget, risk management strategy, contracts not in the normal course of business, amongst others.
In addition the Board has appointed five standing committees.
The Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, have been agreed by the Board for the Audit Committee, Executive Committee, Nomination Committee, Investment Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The membership of the Audit Committee is solely Non-executive Directors and it is chaired by L G Elson.
The majority of the Nomination Committee consists of Non-executive Directors and is chaired by R D Clegg.
TRAINING A detailed induction of all new Directors is undertaken and thereafter training is given as appropriate.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE PAPERS Appropriate and timely management information is circulated to Directors in good time before the meetings.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Group maintains a dialogue with the investment managers of the institutional shareholders and other financial analysts through a programme of meetings after the release of the interim and final results, or after any other significant announcement.
co. uk has information about the Companys businesses as well as the recent Annual Reports and Financial Statements and press releases.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The sections of the Combined Code relating to the Annual General Meeting have been complied with.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL MATTERS The Group operates within the insurance sector of the financial services market and whilst it uses its influence with its clients to adopt good risk management, environmental issues have relatively little impact on the running of its actual business.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and has, inter alia, policies and procedures for the reporting of suspect fraudulent activities including money laundering.
INTERNAL CONTROL 2002 was a year of significant change in the Group following the decision to discontinue all commercial operations.
This substantial change of direction has enabled the Group to focus its resources on the continuing operations, further strengthen the balance sheet and generate increased returns for Shareholders.
Alongside the change in the Groups strategy and business model the organisations structure has been simplified and strengthened.
An ongoing programme was initiated during 2002 to refine and further improve key aspects of our internal processes and controls.
This programme, together with further enhancements to our risk management processes, is continuing through 2003.
HOW COX OPERATIONS, AND RELATED RISKS, ARE MANAGED AND CONTROLLED The key aspects of how Cox manages and controls its operations, and related risks, are described below: Business strategy and planning Against the background of the restructuring activities explained elsewhere in these reports, the Group has placed great importance on reviewing and considering all its business alternatives, and formulating a clear medium-term strategy.
As a key part of this process, detailed objectives and budgets have been prepared by and agreed with each of the operating units.
The strategy and performance against agreed objectives, budgets and forecasts have been monitored routinely at both operating unit and Group Board level.
Organisational structure and governance The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility for implementing and maintaining suitable organisational and governance arrangements, including the system of internal control, for the Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board delegates the formal, periodic review of the system of internal control to the Audit Committee, which reports the results of its work to the Board.
The Audit Committees review supplements the ongoing review by executive management and the Board, key aspects of which are summarised in this report.
The Executive Committee Exco, including the Executive Directors, oversees the Groups continuing operations and strategic focus.
This Committee normally meets on a weekly basis.
Each of the continuing operating units is managed on a day-to-day basis by the head of that operation who chairs periodic, formal executive meetings.
Each operating units performance is also now reviewed regularly at formal quarterly meetings with the Chairman.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, including the capital allocation to operating units and approval of all major transactions.
The Group has established a simple and appropriate organisational structure to plan, execute, manage and control the business.
There are clear reporting lines through the layers of management.
Management have clear job descriptions that set out their accountabilities and the extent of their delegated authority.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Risk management policies and risk appetite Whilst the Groups business continues to involve the underwriting of risk for profit, the Groups intention is that the system of internal control should support the appropriate and cost-effective management and control of all risk exposures rather than their elimination.
The Groups system of internal control is intended to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and that the Group will not be hindered in achieving its business objectives, or in the orderly and legitimate conduct of its business by circumstances that may reasonably be foreseen.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and has regard to the materiality of risks being managed and the cost-effectiveness of particular aspects of internal control.
The Board has established budgets for each of its operating units and actively oversees performance, loss ratios and returns on capital against budgeted levels and the objectives for each operating unit.
Detailed policies are determined by the Board, covering the type and level of acceptable business risk, financial structure, business practice and ethics including a whistle blowing policy amongst others.
Operating units are required to comply with these policies and report any significant deviations.
These policies are continually reviewed and enhanced in line with experience and the Groups appetite for particular types of business and associated risk.
MONITORING OF RISKS AND CONTROLS Through the organisations structure summarised above the Board delegates, through the Chief Executive Officer, to operational management who are primarily accountable for ensuring that appropriate processes are in place to identify, evaluate and manage the significant business, financial, operational and compliance risks in their area.
Detailed procedures and internal control manuals have been maintained and updated for each area of business, also reflecting the conclusions of the Groups programme to review and enhance efficiencies in all key business areas.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION The Group has a clear and comprehensive system for reporting both financial and operational information through the Executive Committee to the Board.
Lines of communication are kept simple and relatively short to assist this process and to enable feedback to be communicated swiftly to operational management.
Through the regular management forums, operating units review and escalate to the Executive Committee and the Board any material new risks, business issues or control issues that have arisen.
Corrective actions are agreed, implemented and monitored as appropriate.
ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE AND BEHAVIOUR The Group believes that all employees should take responsibility for their own actions to help the Group to achieve its business objectives.
The role that all employees play in implementing a sound system of internal control is a key aspect of that responsibility.
Through operating unit senior management, the Group aims to maintain a high awareness amongst employees of the need for good internal controls and high standards of business conduct, and expects its approved policies and procedures to be complied with.
INTERNAL AUDIT AND OTHER ASSURANCE ON INTERNAL CONTROLS The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function, operating across all areas of the business, to provide formal and independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit Committee, that internal controls are operating as intended.
Internal Audits work is risk-based and provides additional assurance that managements processes to identify, assess and monitor risks and controls in the business remain appropriate and effective.
Regular and ad hoc reviews by senior management into particular areas, as required, supplement the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee and the Board also take into account, in their overall assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls, the external Auditors work and conclusions in relation to their audit of the Financial Statements.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 32 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL ANNUAL REVIEW In addition to the ongoing review referred to above, the Group has established a process for reviewing the effectiveness of its system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
Using a rigorous process facilitated by Internal Audit, each business unit held risk management workshops in late 2002 to assist in its formal review and self-assessment of all risks and the related controls in operation.
Formal risk profiles were formulated for each layer of the business: these outlined the severity and probability of significant risks and systems of internal control in operation.
Risk profiles, procedures and internal control manuals were reviewed and confirmed as part of this process.
Internal Audit has independently reviewed and tested significant controls identified in the analyses prepared by business units.
On the basis of their work throughout the year and the annual process described above, each business unit has submitted a formal self-certification of its conclusions on the appropriateness and effectiveness of the systems of internal control in its area.
Action plans have been prepared by operational management to address any significant areas of concern or to further improve controls in specified areas, which will continue to be implemented and monitored through 2003.
The summary assessment from that work was formally presented on 20 March 2003 to the Audit Committee and then to the Board for review.
In its assessment of effectiveness, the Board particularly took into account the detailed analysis of risks and controls presented by management, the significant changes in the Groups operations during 2002, the quality of and changes to management during that period, and its cumulative assessment of risks, issues and controls as they had arisen and had been reported during the period.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Directors report and Financial Statements.
The process has been subject to regular review by the Board as part of its ongoing oversight of the business, and accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls, and as required by the Combined Code and the Listing Rules.
By order of the Board C J RINGROSE COMPANY SECRETARY 8 April 2003 Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 33
