Corporate Governance GENERAL Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September The Groups mission is to provide world class metallurgical services 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control to respected and innovative engineering companies by the efficient and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups aim in terms of Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of corporate governance, therefore, must be to sustain and support failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable this objective over the longer term.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Many of the recommendations of the Code of Best Practice prescribed The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority have been a and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on feature at Bodycote for some years.
Taken together with the Board reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider Report on Remuneration on pages 14 to 17, this statement explains whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The audit committee set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
INDEPENDENCE During 2002, in compliance with provision D. 2.1, the Board also performed Bodycote asserts that its current Non-Executive Directors all have more a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
than sufficient character to exhibit the necessary independence to The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control full their duties individually and collectively as Directors.
Accordingly, arising during the period covered by the report including the work of Bodycote considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent internal audit.
In addition, the managing director of each of the Groups for the purposes of the Combined Code.
strategic business units was asked to report on the existing internal DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES control procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They were asked to The Board currently comprises nine Directors, but after the annual general identify and make an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses meeting, this number will fall to seven, of whom four will be non-executive they control, in each case with the assistance of input from those led by the Chairman, Mr J.
The nominated senior independent reporting directly to them.
Such risks were measured against their own Non-Executive Director is Mr R. T. Scholes.
Brief biographies of all the stated divisional objectives.
Following the risk management review by Directors are given on page 18.
The Groups Chief Executive officer is each participant at divisional level, a Group level review was prepared Mr J. D. Hubbard, who is responsible for all the Groups trading operations.
for the Directors to assess.
No significant previously unidentified risks The Board meets at least nine times a year and will combine meetings with were uncovered as part of the process.
Save for the absence of Mr T. Bell, directors PROSPECTS recorded 100% meeting attendance.
In advance of these meetings The Boards view on the Groups position and prospects is given by the Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about the trading Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in their respective performance of each operating location, the Groups overall financial statements on pages 2 to 9 of this report.
position and its achievement against budget.
It is also supplied with Following a review of the Groups results for 2002 and its budgets for the latest information on health and safety and risk management issues.
2003, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice adequate resources to finance their activities for the foreseeable future, at the expense of the Company and all Directors have access to the and therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in company secretary, and may also address specic issues to the senior preparing the financial statements.
INVESTOR RELATIONS In accordance with the articles of association all newly appointed Directors The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet and any who have not stood for re-election at the two previous annual institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has general meetings, if eligible, submit themselves each year for re-election.
enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for xed Groups strategy.
The business of the annual general meeting now terms not exceeding three years, after which the appointment may comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have been responsibilities is set out on page 12. able to view up-to-date news on the Company and its share price via the The Board also operates three committees.
These are the nomination Bodycote website at http: www.
Users of the website committee, the remuneration committee, which recommends policy can also now enrol free for a service that automatically noties them and procedure on Directors and senior executives compensation, and of results announcements and recent significant Company events.
the audit committee, which amongst other matters, reviews the Groups CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE published results and meets and discusses issues with the auditors.
The Company complied with the Combined Code throughout the Fuller details of the composition of the committees and their activities period, save in respect of Code Provision D. 3.1, which requires not are given in the Directors report on page 11. less than three non-executive directors to sit on the Boards audit committee, when in fact only two served on the audit committee INTERNAL CONTROL during the whole of 2002.
This is due to the several months required The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing to recruit new non-executive directors following the resignation of a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups Dr Farmer at the end of 2001.
This issue was addressed by the significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board continuously and regularly reviews the appointment, announced on 20 November 2002, of two new nonprocess, which has been in place from the start of 2000 to the date executive directors to take ofce and join the audit committee from of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: 2 January 2003.
