"Accounts Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Directors confirm that during the year under review the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance ""the Code"" issued by the Financial Services Authority."
The Board of Directors The Board, which meets regularly, comprised of seven Directors at 30 September 2002, all of whom were non-executive.
All of the Directors who held office at 30 September 2002 have been considered by the Board to be wholly independent under the Code.
Sir Michael Pickard was the Senior Independent Director until his retirement on 30 September 2002.
Mr JP Williams became the Senior Independent Director from 1 October 2002.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Company's management agreements with Electra Partners, together with the monitoring of the performance thereunder.
The management agreements set out the matters over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Each Director receives board papers several days in advance of each scheduled board meeting and is able to consider in detail the Company's performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for consideration by the entire Board.
The Audit Committee The Board has an Audit Committee with specified terms of reference.
It comprises all the Directors with Mr RA Armstrong as Chairman.
The principal role of the Committee is to review the content of the Annual and Interim Accounts, the accounting policies applied therein and to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the Company's Auditors and the senior executives of Electra Partners.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee meets when necessary to determine the emoluments of the Directors and the Chairman.
It comprises all the Directors of the Company other than the Chairman, who takes no part in determining his own remuneration.
Mr JP Williams was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Details of Director's remuneration are shown in Note 4 of the accounts.
The Remuneration Committee considers the levels of remuneration paid to be appropriate in the light of responsibilities and duties undertaken by the Directors.
None of the Directors has a service contract.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to consider suitable candidates for appointment as Director.
It comprises all the Directors with Sir Brian Williamson as Chairman.
New appointments to the Board are briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman and senior executives of Electra Partners.
Following appointment, Directors continue to receive appropriate advice to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and City analysts, with a number of presentations and visits being undertaken throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Electra Investment Trust PLC 35 Accounts Corporate Governance Internal Control The Code requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal control and report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Code extended the earlier reporting requirements and now includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
The Board is responsible for the Company's system of internal control and it has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2002.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Company's system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Company's business objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control for the Company are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy agreement by the Board of the Company's investment strategy and authorisation and monitoring of all large investments.
Management Agreements the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Company's assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
Investment Performance the investment transactions and performance of the Company's assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
Management Systems Electra Partners' system of internal control includes clear lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
Electra Partners' compliance department monitors compliance with the FSA rules.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners' executives.
The Board reviews the certificates provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis, verifying compliance with documenting controls.
Custodians are required to produce on a regular basis a report available for review by the Directors on their internal controls and their operations, including a report by the Custodians' auditors.
