Corporate governance policy guidepolicy lines Corporate governance policy guidelines Introduction These guidelines have been adopted by the 2 Board selection The Board receives recommendations on Board.
They provide guidance on how the principles of good the appointment of directors from a Board committee, Corporate Governance are applied by the Company.
The Report The Nomination Committee.
This Board committee comprises on corporate governance is set out on pages 35 to 36. the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive and will meet as required to consider proposed changes to Board The Board represents the interests of shareholders and other membership.
stakeholders through managing the business of the Group successfully: setting and achieving short, medium and long 3 Non-executive director independence term objectives.
The Board is responsible for monitoring and Non-executive directors are free from any business or other ensuring that senior management, organised in an established relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise regional management structure, operate in accordance with the of their independent judgement on matters under Groups policies and procedures and implement and execute consideration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration the determined business strategies to achieve these objectives.
and being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or prevent a non-executive director from acting Guidelines on important corporate governance issues independently.
1 Board membership and balance The composition of 4 Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that it and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of remains appropriate for managing successfully the business responsibility between the two roles.
It is normal practice for activities of the Group.
Consideration is given to the breadth of the role of Chairman to be a non-executive position ensuring knowledge, diversity of skills and experience of executive and the presence of a senior independent director.
The Board gives adequate consideration to planning for succession to executive director 5 Number of directors An appropriate balance between and senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate executive and non-executive directors is maintained and the management development measures are in place.
size of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity of knowledge, skills and experience necessary for a sound independent contribution to the Board and the successful management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, neither the executive nor the non-executive element on the Board should exceed two thirds at any one time.
Page 30 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk 6 Length of appointment Executive directors are 9 Financial information and internal control employed on service contracts with notice periods which do The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the not exceed one year.
The normal retirement age for executive Groups annual report and accounts, interim report, preliminary directors is 60.
Non-executive directors service agreements statement and other public financial information is the establish the length of their appointments at periods of up to responsibility of a Board committee, the Audit Committee.
The three years and their notice periods up to twelve months.
All Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee every three years at the Annual General Meeting.
New directors comprises the non-executive directors.
appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by shareholders 10 Supply of information Senior management are at the following Annual General Meeting.
responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete 7 Director training On appointment, new directors are and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its given a comprehensive induction to the Groups business responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, its policies and procedures and its management activities, including significant variances, and progress with the structure.
As necessary, directors receive training to implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access complement their roles on the Board.
to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
8 Director remuneration The Remuneration Committee in accordance with its terms of reference determines on behalf of 11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman the Board the broad policy for executive remuneration and the and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board entire remuneration package for each of the executive meeting and the necessary papers are distributed in advance so directors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the that the matters contained can be properly considered by the non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee meets as directors.
There is in place a schedule of matters reserved to the required.
External advice is sought where appropriate to Board for decision, and detailed authorities, together with benchmark remuneration levels against comparable companies.
associated procedures, have been established for individual Non-executive director remuneration is determined by directors in the performance of their duties.
12 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and social matters, health and safety and the environment are maintained, reviewed and monitored on a regular basis.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 31
