Report on corporate governance The Combined Code was issued by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998.
It was supplemented by a publication entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, published on 27 September 1999 to enable listed companies to comply with paragraph 12.43A a and b of the Listing Rules.
The Company has throughout the year applied the provisions of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below, apart from the following item.
It does not think it necessary at this time to appoint a senior non-executive director as required by provision A.
2.1 of the Combined Code as there is a strong and independent non-executive element on the Board including the Chairman who is accessible to shareholders.
The Board The Board comprises three executive directors Mr Malcolm Harris, Chief Executive, Mr Stephen Brazier, Group Operations Director and Mr David Ritchie, Finance Director, and three independent non-executive directors, Sir Nigel Mobbs, the Chairman, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mr Tim Melville-Ross.
The current structure of the Board was established on 1 February 2002 following the retirements of Mr John Emery, Legal Director, on 3 January 2002 and Mr Mike Sharpe on 31 January 2002 and the resignation of Mr Peter Baker on 1 February 2002.
On 30 June 2002 Mr Ron Walford retired from the Board as Finance Director.
On 1 July 2002 Mr David Ritchie was appointed Finance Director.
Consequently for most of 2002 there were three executive directors and three non-executive directors in office.
The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision supported by timely and comprehensive board papers.
These include agreeing objectives, strategy, budgets, risk tolerance, borrowing facilities, dividend policy, appointment of directors and determining fees payable to non-executive directors.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
The services of the Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
All directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
During the first year shorter notice periods apply.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
The membership of these committees comprises the three non-executive directors plus the Chief Executive in the case of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Mark Nicholls and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees are chaired by Sir Nigel Mobbs.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board as follows: the Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board policy for the remuneration of executive directors.
The policy is designed to attract and retain executive directors with the necessary abilities to maximise the performance of the Group for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework of executive remuneration and determines on the Boards behalf specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
In setting individual packages consideration is given to appropriate basic salary, benefits in kind, performance related bonuses, participation in any share option scheme, long term incentive plan, and pension scheme.
The Remuneration Committee has access to both internal and external advice, including information on the remuneration of similar executives in comparable organisations: the Nomination Committee is required to consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman, the appointment or re-appointment of a director to the Board and provide advice and recommendations thereon: Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 35 Report on corporate governance continued Board committees continued the Audit Committee has specified duties which include a review of the Groups system of internal control and a review of the annual and half year results, statements and reports, before they are submitted to the Board.
The committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference, and has access to the internal auditors as well as external auditors and their reports to the Company, and outside legal or other independent professional advice.
The duties of the Audit Committee also include monitoring the performance, independence and cost effectiveness of the external audit.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General Meeting which the full Board attends.
The Board maintains regular contact with shareholders through presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of interim and final results.
Details of the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of interim and final results are reported on the Groups website www.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2002 in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risks register.
The Board regularly reviews this register to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities of the business.
In this way it is able to reconsider its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it, consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board, and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions and Retirement Living, with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region and Retirement Living reporting through its local board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Page 36 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
