28 Corporate governance The boards governance policies regulate its relationship with committees, their tasks and composition: qualifications for board shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and its relationship with membership and the process of the Nomination Committee: the group chief executive.
The policies recognize that the board has a the remuneration of non-executive directors: the appointment and separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between role of the company secretary: the process for directors to obtain the shareholders and the group chief executive.
In addition, they independent advice and the assessment of the boards performance.
acknowledge the dual role played by the group chief executive and The board process policy places responsibility for implementation executive directors as both members of the board and leaders of the of this policy, including training of directors, on the chairman.
The policies therefore require a majority of The policy recognizes that the boards capacity, as a group, is the board to be composed of non-executive directors and delegate limited.
The board therefore reserves to itself the making of broad all aspects of the relationship between the board and the group chief policy decisions, delegating more detailed considerations involved executive to the non-executive directors.
The policies also require in meeting its stated requirements either to board committees and the chairman and deputy chairman to be non-executive directors: officers in the case of its own processes or to the group chief throughout 2002 the posts were held by Mr Sutherland and executive in the case of the management of the companys business Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian Prosser acts as the senior activity.
The policy allocates the tasks of monitoring executive actions independent non-executive director as required by the Combined and assessing reward to the following committees: Code on Corporate Governance.
Finally, the company secretary reports to the non-executive chairman and is not part of the Chairmans Committee all non-executive directors to review executive management.
the structure and effectiveness of the business organization: succession planning for the executive directors and the most Relationship with shareholders senior executives: and to assess the overall performance of the The policies emphasize the importance of the relationship between group chief executive.
The committee met four times during 2002. the board and the shareholders.
In them the board acknowledges Audit Committee 4-6 non-executive directors to monitor all that its role is to represent and promote the interests of shareholders reporting, accounting, control and financial aspects of the and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and executive managements activities.
This includes systematic activities of the group including, for example, the system of internal monitoring and obtaining assurance that the legally required control and the review of its effectiveness.
The board is required to standards of disclosure are being fully and fairly observed be proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and that the executive limitations relating to financial matters and to evaluate systematically the economic, social, environmental are being observed.
The committee keeps under review the and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of its scope and results of audit work, its cost-effectiveness and the shareholders.
These interests are represented and promoted by the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
It requires the board through exercising its policy-making and monitoring functions.
auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every five years and As a result, shareholder interests lie at the heart of the goals reviews non-audit assignments.
Aside from its monitoring of established by the board for the company.
external audit work, the committee considers the internal audit The board is accountable to shareholders in a variety of ways.
The auditors lead partner and the BP general auditor Directors are required to stand for re-election every three years to head of internal audit attend each meeting at the request of the ensure that shareholders have a regular opportunity to reassess the committee chairman.
The committee met 10 times during 2002. composition of the board.
New directors are subject to election at Ethics and Environment Assurance Committee 4-6 non-executive the first opportunity following their appointment.
Names submitted directors to monitor the non-financial aspects of the executive to shareholders for election in 2002 were accompanied by managements activities.
The auditors lead partner and the BP biographical details.
general auditor head of internal audit attend each meeting at The board makes use of a number of formal channels of the request of the committee chairman.
The committee met communication to account to shareholders for the performance of the four times during 2002. company.
These include the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Remuneration Committee 4-6 non-executive directors to Report on Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange determine performance contracts, targets and the structure Commission, quarterly announcements made through stock of the rewards for the group chief executive and the executive exchanges on which BP shares are listed and the annual general directors and to monitor the policies being applied in remunerating meeting of shareholders.
Given the size and geographical diversity of other senior executives.
The committee met five times during BPs shareholder base, the opportunities for shareholder interaction at 2002.
The directors remuneration report appears on pages the annual general meeting are limited.
However, the chairman and all 30 to 39. board committee chairmen were present at the 2002 annual general Nomination Committee the chairman, group chief executive meeting to answer questions.
All proxy votes at shareholder meetings and three non-executive directors selected from time to time are counted since votes on all matters except procedural issues are as required to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates taken by way of a poll.
BP has also pioneered the use of electronic for appointment or reappointment as directors and as company communications to facilitate the exercise of shareholder control rights.
The committee met once during 2002.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investment community are available simultaneously to all shareholders The qualification for board membership includes a requirement by live internet broadcast or open conference call.
that non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the executive management of the company that could materially interfere Board process with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, The board has laid down rules for its own activities in a board process all non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
The board met nine policy that covers the conduct of members at meetings: the cycle times during 2002, six times in the UK, twice in the USA and once in of board activities and the setting of agendas: the provision of Europe for a two-day strategy discussion.
Committee meetings are information to the board: board officers and their roles: board held in conjunction with board meetings whenever possible.
BP 2002 Corporate governance 29 In carrying out its work, the board has to exercise judgement certain of these risks are identified and managed in the course of the about how best to further the interests of shareholders.
Given the companys business is included in the Dealing with risks section on uncertainties inherent in the future of business activity, the board page 20 of this report.
seeks to maximize the expected value of the shareholders interest The executive management presented a report to the November in the company, not to eliminate the possibility of any adverse meetings of both the Audit Committee and the Ethics and outcomes for shareholders.
Environment Assurance Committee to support the board in its annual assessment of internal control.
The report identified and evaluated Board Executive relationship significant risks and described the executive managements assurance The board executive relationship policy sets out how the board process.
It also described the changes since the last annual delegates authority to the group chief executive and the extent of that assessment in the nature and potential impact of significant risks and authority.
In its goals policy, the board states the long-term outcome the continuing development of the internal control systems in place to it expects the group chief executive to deliver.
The restrictions on the manage them.
Significant incidents that occurred during the year and manner in which the group chief executive may achieve the required managements response to them were also described.
The report also results are set out in the executive limitations policy, which addresses included an assessment of future potentially significant risks.
ethics, health, safety, the environment, financial distress, internal In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient control, risk preferences, treatment of employees and political to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system considerations.
On all these matters, the boards role is to set general of internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors policy and to monitor the implementation of that policy by the group on Internal Control Turnbull.
The group chief executive explains how he intends to deliver the Directors interests in BP ordinary shares or calculated equivalents required outcome in annual and medium-term plans, the former of which include a comprehensive assessment of the risks to delivery.
At 1 Jan 2002 Change from or on 31 Dec 2002- Progress towards the expected outcome is set out in a monthly report At 31 Dec 2002 appointment 11 Feb 2003 that covers actual results and a forecast of results for the current year.
Current directors excluding those appointed in 2003 This report is reviewed at each board meeting.
The board executive relationship policy also sets out how the a a The Lord Browne of Madingley 1,681,652 1,392,184 group chief executives performance will be monitored and recognizes b b J H Bryan 98,760 98,760 that, in the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement is always R F Chase 810,826 794,745 186 involved.
The group chief executive is obliged through dialogue and b b E B Davis, Jr 63,814 62,695 systematic review to discuss with the board all material matters b b Dr B E Grote 722,562 595,845 currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance Dr D S Julius 2,000 2,000 and all strategic projects or developments.
This specifically includes b b C F Knight 92,238 30,247 any materially under-performing business activities and actions b b F A Maljers 33,492 33,492 that breach the executive limitations policy.
It also includes social, b b Dr W E Massey 48,232 47,378 environmental and ethical considerations.
This dialogue is a key feature H M P Miles 22,145 9,445 of the board executive relationship.
Between board meetings the Sir Robin Nicholson 3,758 3,643 chairman has responsibility for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness R L Olver 738,563 585,852 2,573 of the board executive relationship.
The systems set out in the Sir Ian Prosser 2,826 2,826 board executive relationship policy are designed to manage, rather P D Sutherland 7,079 7,079 than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the board goals policy b b M H Wilson 43,200 43,200 or observe the executive limitations policy.
They provide reasonable, c At retirement At 1 Jan 2002 not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors leaving the board in 2002 Combined Code compliance and internal control review Dr J G S Buchanan 890,409 723,149 BP complied throughout 2002 with the provisions of Section 1 of b b WDFord 435,607 333,139 the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance, except in the Sir Robert Wilson 5,478 5,478 following aspect.
Not all the members of the Nomination Committee Change from are identified in this report since three of its members are selected On appointment 1 Feb 2003- on 1 Feb 2003 11 Feb 2003 from among the non-executive directors when a meeting is arranged.
Leaving part of the committee membership unspecified allows Directors appointed in 2003 the board to manage the potential for conflicts of interest in the d Dr D C Allen 306,565 committees work.
Dr A B Hayward 91,777 96 The boards governance policies include a process for the board to J A Manzoni 95,552 99 review regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control as a Includes 50,368 shares held as ADSs throughout 2002. required by Code provision D. 2.1.
As part of this process, the board, b Held as ADSs.
the Audit Committee and the Ethics and Environment Assurance c At retirement on 21 November 2002, 31 March 2002 and 18 April 2002 respectively.
d Committee requested, received and reviewed reports from executive Includes 25,368 shares held as ADSs.
management and the management of the principal businesses at their In disclosing the above interests to the company under the Companies Act 1985, directors did not distinguish their beneficial and non-beneficial interests.
That enabled them to assess the effectiveness of Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the the system of internal control in operation for managing significant company held from time to time by BP QUEST Company Limited and The BP Employee Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys risks throughout the year.
These risks included those areas identified option schemes.
in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company, issued by the Association of British Insurers.
An explanation of how or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
