Application of Corporate Governance The Committee on Corporate Governance published its independently of any other associations.
We meet at least report on the principles of good governance and code of four times a year and we endeavour to provide leadership best practice the Combined Code in June 1998.
The in terms of the direction of the Company.
Between these provisions of the Combined Code replace the previous meetings, there is regular contact with the Manager.
We requirements on corporate governance contained in the devote much time to considering investment matters, Cadbury and Greenbury Codes.
The Company is including the economic, financial and market environment committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Board has put in place a framework for corporate Supply and agenda of information - The key source of regular governance, which it believes is appropriate for an information for the Board is the quarterly Board meeting investment trust company and which enables the Company papers, the contents of which are determined by us and to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board considers contain sufficient information on the financial condition of that the Company has complied with the provisions the Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend contained within the Combined Code throughout the each Board Meeting, enabling the Board to probe further accounting period to 31 December 2002, except where on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain disclosed below, and this statement describes how the issues.
The Directors have access to the advice and services relevant principles of governance are applied to the of the Company Secretary through its appointed Company.
representative, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable Directors rules and regulations are complied with.
The Directors also The Board - The Board currently consists of five nonhave the ability to take independent professional advice, if executive Directors, of which four are independent of the necessary, at the Companys expense.
These independent Directors form the members of the Audit Committee and the Management Appointments to the Board - Any proposal for a new Director Engagement Committee.
The Management Engagement will be discussed and approved by all of the Board.
As a Committee meets once a year and considers both the consequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
Upon continuation and terms of the Management Agreement.
appointment, each Director receives a briefing on the investment operations and administration functions of the Chairman and Chief Executive - The Company does not have Company, together with a summary of their duties and a chief executive officer as such but, by virtue of employing responsibilities.
a management company, these roles are separated.
As the Chairman is independent there is no need to appoint Re-election - As required by company law, all newly another senior independent Director.
appointed directors stand for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their Board balance - The Board consists of Directors who appointment.
The Directors retire by rotation and offer between them have good knowledge and wide experience themselves for re-election by shareholders every three of business in Europe and of investment trusts.
Directors who have reached the age of 70 are subject that we conduct our business at all times with only the to annual re-election.
A procedure has been put in place interests of the shareholders in mind and quite 19 Application of Corporate Governance whereby formal letters of appointment, which specify the Internal Control - The Code requires the Directors to review terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors on the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal appointment and to existing Directors as they retire and are control.
This has extended the previous requirement which re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
focused on internal financial control and now encompasses a review of all controls.
Directors Remuneration - The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board, and therefore a separate The identification, control and evaluation of risk is remuneration committee has not been appointed.
Since all formulated by a series of quarterly investment performance Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required reports, a semi-annual internal controls report and to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of quarterly compliance reports as provided by the Manager.
Directors fees are The systems of internal controls are designed to manage disclosed fully in each Annual Report see the Directors rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business Remuneration Report on page 22. objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Shareholders - We are concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, shareholders.
We believe our institutional shareholders do including the Investment Manager, the management of the have proper access to the Manager at any time and to us if investment portfolio, the custodial services which include they so wish.
All shareholders, particularly individual the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial Meeting at which there is always a presentation of the past requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality by the opportunity to meet the Management and the and cost of services offered including the control systems Board.
Proxy voting on all resolutions is disclosed at the in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Audit Committee meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and receives Accountability and Audit reports upon the quality and effectiveness of the Financial Reporting - Set out on page 17 is a statement by accounting records and management information the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Auditors have set out their reporting annual and interim accounts and reviews the nature and responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report scope of the external audit and the findings from the on page 23.
The Board carries out a risk and control assessment Going Concern - The Directors believe that it is appropriate including a review of the Managers risk management to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing processes.
The key element of this assessment is the semithe accounts since the assets of the Company consist annual internal controls report prepared by the Manager mainly of securities which are readily realisable and for its investment trust clients.
The internal controls report accordingly the Company has adequate financial resources sets out the Managers control policies and procedures with to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable respect to the management of its clients investments.
20 Whilst the Company, in common with most investment trusts, has no internal audit department, the effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Managers compliance and internal audit functions.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the internal controls report on the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company, and an annual compliance report from the Managers Director of Compliance.
"By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" published by the Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Directors have established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the year."
Audit Committee and Independent Auditors As noted earlier, an Audit Committee has been established, consisting of all the independent Directors.
This Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference.
This includes responsibility for annually reviewing the scope and results of the audit with the external Auditors as well as approving their fees.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets with the Auditors at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
Full details are given above.
Exercise of Voting Powers - The Company has approved a corporate governance voting policy with the intention of voting in accordance with best practice, whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
On behalf of the Board Robert Walther 24 February 2003 21
