CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FP013 p33 45 vAW3 26 3 03 10:35 am Page 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 35 Remuneration The Board Lady Judge, Alison Carnwath, Christopher Jemmett.
The Board sets the Groups strategy, which it then implements through its approval and regular monitoring of a business plan and budget prepared by the executive directors.
Nominations to the Board This plan relates to the Groups two core businesses: life and pensions and asset The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on all new management.
Each core business is organised through a group of subsidiary Board appointments.
There is a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that companies, each group having a principal operating company: Friends Provident Life appointments are appropriate to the needs of the Group and the balance of the and Pensions Limited FPLP for the life and pensions business and ISIS Asset Board.
New directors, following their appointment, are given a firm grounding in Management plc ISIS, formerly known as Friends Ivory & Sime plc for the asset the regulation of the Group and the way in which it operates within the life management business.
ISIS is 67% owned by the Group and is itself listed on the and pensions and asset management sectors to provide them with a thorough London Stock Exchange.
The business plan specifies key developments towards the appreciation of the Groups business, its corporate values and the standard strategic objectives that are to be achieved by management within an agreed budget.
of conduct expected of directors.
At its monthly meetings, supplied with information which is both timely and appropriate, the Board deals with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, takes all material Reporting to shareholders decisions affecting the Group, including acquisitions, sales, capital expenditure and The Company places considerable importance on communications with financing and oversees and reviews the operation and achievements of the Groups shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of issues.
It has an ongoing activities.
The boards of ISIS and FPLP and other FSA regulated subsidiaries also meet programme of dialogue and meetings with major institutional shareholders, where separately every month to monitor and direct the operations of those businesses.
a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed.
The Board currently has twelve members: the chairman, the deputy chairman and four non-executive directors, all six of whom are independent, and six At its annual general meeting, the Company complies with the provisions of executive directors with significant insurance and financial services experience.
the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation Either directly, or through the operation of committees of directors constituted of resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
The timing of the with appropriate written terms of reference and delegated authority, the Board despatch of the formal notice of the annual general meeting also complies brings an independent judgement on all issues of strategy, performance, with the Combined Code.
resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The Nomination Committee is currently, and with independent external advice, Statement of compliance with principles of the Combined Code conducting a search for a further independent, non-executive director.
The directors consider that, except as, and for the reason stated in, paragraph 20 of the directors report on remuneration, the Company has throughout the year Directors ended 31 December 2002 and up to the date hereof been in compliance with The non-executive directors experience covers a broad spectrum and, coupled with the principles and underlying provisions contained or referred to in Section 1 the focus and experience of the executive directors, the Board is able to lead and of the Combined Code.
give direction to the Group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision taking.
Any director having a concern Internal controls: compliance position in this or any other regard may raise it with the chairman or deputy chairman, the The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems of recognised senior independent director.
All directors also have access to the advice internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed and services of the company secretary who ensures that Board process and leading to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives corporate governance practice are followed.
There is also an established procedure and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material whereby individual directors, who consider it necessary in furtherance of their duties, misstatement or loss.
may take independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
In accordance with guidance published in September 1999 by the Institute of Committees of the Board Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal Control: Guidance for Except for the Investment Committee, all committees of the Board are chaired Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance the Board confirms by and have a majority of, or exclusively comprise, independent directors.
The that there has been in place for the year under review, and up to the date of independent directors are those whose names are marked with an asterisk below.
approval of the annual report and accounts, an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is The current composition of committees of directors, the first named being the regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance chairman, is: and the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment, which focus on Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE risks.
Audit and Compliance Christopher Jemmett, Lord MacGregor, Roger Morton : A Risk and Controls Liaison Committee RCLC, the membership of which comprises executive directors and other senior managers of the Company, FPLP Investment and ISIS, reviews operational aspects of the effectiveness of the systems of internal David Newbigging, Graham Aslet, Howard Carter, Martin Jackson, controls covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, Christopher Jemmett, Lady Judge, Keith Satchell, Brian Sweetland: particularly those that span the Groups two core businesses.
The RCLC will bring to the attention of the Executive Committee of the Company, the Management Nomination Committee of ISIS, the Audit and Compliance Committees of both the Company Lord MacGregor, David Newbigging, Keith Satchell: FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FP013 p33 45 vAW3 26 3 03 10:35 am Page 36 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED and ISIS or other parties, as necessary or appropriate, details of known, material The significant economic, business, legal and SEE risks facing the business have control weaknesses or significant risks and agreed actions to eliminate those been evaluated and managed by this process.
Examples of these could be failure weaknesses or mitigate the risks.
to adhere to regulations of the Financial Services Authority FSA, mis-selling, loss of key staff, the inappropriate handling of customer complaints, loss of support Membership of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Company comprises among Independent Financial Advisers, poor investment markets and a range of only independent non-executive directors.
The committee provides the principal significant risks that could occur due to the businesss failure to manage its direct medium through which the Board receives independent assurance on the Groups and indirect environmental impacts.
financial reporting process, internal controls and adherence to policies and procedures.
It is through this medium that the Board seeks assurance on SEE matters.
Committee The Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating meetings are normally attended by the external auditors, the Group chief executive, the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which the ISIS chief executive and or finance director, the Group finance director, the head these risks are managed.
of finance, the appointed actuary of FPLP, the director responsible for compliance, internal audit, risk management, governance, health and safety and corporate social Information and communication responsibility and the head of compliance and internal audit.
During 2002 the Audit Members of executive management participate in an annual strategic review that and Compliance Committee met 3 times and, with the exception of Lord MacGregor, considers overall business direction and its financial implications.
Individual business who could not attend one meeting, all members were present at every meeting.
units prepare annual budgets and business plans that provide a basis against which actual results can be benchmarked.
Assets, liabilities, investments and other relevant The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Progress against plans is actively monitored and supported This is primarily achieved by the Companys Audit and Compliance Committee by regular forecasts, which, together with actual results, are consolidated and periodically receiving and reviewing reports from the compliance and internal audit presented to the Board on a regular basis.
functions within both core businesses.
On an annual basis, the Companys Audit and Compliance Committee meets specifically to receive and review annual assessments Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is continually monitored, from the compliance, internal audit and risk management functions before risks are identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, recommending to the Board the adoption of the Internal Controls statement.
control procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Key elements of the Groups systems of internal controls are as follows: Risk Management Policy Control environment The mission of the Groups risk management policy is To manage responsibly The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks and proactively the significant business, including SEE, risks that have the potential to maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Group has in place to impact the Groups current operational arena, while defining and accepting an appropriate procedures for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not appropriate level of risk that will allow the Groups two core businesses to flourish.
meet the required standards of business conduct.
The Company aims to manage risk in a manner that will provide sustainable value The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, by focusing on those matters that may impact or thwart the achievement of the controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve Group objectives.
The structure is designed to provide clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Group chief executive The Company believes that effective risk management should be part of the Groups and is devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly delegated behavioural culture, a state of mind whereby all employees consider their day-to-day and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group management are, therefore, work processes and identify new or existing activities that will increase the likelihood accountable for the operation of the systems of internal controls within the Groups of achieving the many long-term business objectives at an acceptable level of risk.
The process of strategic and business planning is subject to the same principles As statements covering the system of internal controls within ISIS and its as day-to-day processes and adopts the concept of risk management as part of its subsidiaries can be found in ISISs annual report and accounts, the remainder of overall approach.
this statement focuses on the system of internal controls within the Groups core life and pensions business.
Control procedures The business has implemented accounting policies, financial reporting processes Risk identification and internal control procedures designed to safeguard policyholders investments Members of executive management are responsible for identifying and evaluating and the Groups assets.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of the key risks facing their areas of the business.
These risks are assessed at least duties and reviews by management.
A process of self-assessment and hierarchical quarterly and may be associated with a variety of internal or external factors reporting has been established within the business and provides for a documented including regulatory requirements, control breakdowns, disruption in information and auditable trail of responsibility and accountability.
systems, competition and natural catastrophe.
The Group Risk manager reports to the Board quarterly on the results of the review of key risks carried out by executive Monitoring and corrective action management.
Internal audit reports to the Audit and Compliance Committee half Group Risk monitors and reports the outcome of the self-assessment process yearly on the effectiveness of the controls that exist to manage the key risks.
to successive layers of management and ultimately to the Board.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FP013 p33 45 vAW3 26 3 03 10:35 am Page 37 37 The controls identified as part of the self-assessment process are reviewed by those controls continue to develop in line with the requirements of the FSA and the internal audit function for accuracy, completeness and effectiveness.
In particular, guidance published by the FSA suggests that further corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed development may be needed to the structures in place for the identification, by the Audit and Compliance Committee.
assessment and quantification of risk.
Furthermore, the recommendations contained in the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and the Independence of auditors guidance offered to boards and audit committees in the report by Sir Robert Smith, The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the independence, integrity, both published in January 2003, are being considered by the Company with a view to competence and professionalism of the Groups auditors and has satisfied itself timely and appropriate implementation.
Any necessary changes will be made so as to that during the year no aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds.
In ensure that the interests of the Groups customers and the Companys shareholders maintaining a clear perception of independence and balancing that with the best continue to be protected.
interests of the Company, the Board has also considered the policy for awarding non-audit work to either of the Groups auditors.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group companys auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a manner that affords For the Board full value for money.
The contractor must not be in a position of conflict in B. W. Sweetland respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and Director and Company Secretary integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Company and 4 March 2003 the Group.
Any award of work to the auditors, irrespective of value, requires the prior approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The Committee considers whether the work: is so closely related to the statutory audit for example, related assurance work, which would include FRAG 21 work, regulatory reports and tax compliance work: or is such that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary for example, due diligence and tax advisory work and work preparatory to a shareholder circular, that, in the absence of any conflict of interest, it is in the best interests of the Group to have the work carried out by the auditors.
It should also be remembered that audit firms have an internal control process that aims to eliminate conflict and ensure objectivity in dealing with clients.
The auditors are specifically excluded from undertaking any assignment or work that would involve them either in auditing or reviewing their own work or in providing services that would require them to function as part of the management of the business.
The award of any other type of non-audit work will be the subject of a short list of appropriate providers if in excess of 50,000 30,000 for ISIS Asset Management plc and the subject of a formal tender process wherever appropriate.
Irrespective of the value of the contract, such work will always be awarded to the contractor who has the necessary skill, competence and integrity and offers the best value for money in the best interests of the Group.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee.
If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services may be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
Future developments The Board believes that the controls in place during 2002 have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
