36 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Review and Risk Management continued Balance Sheet Analysis As at 31 December 2002 Retail Insurance & Business Corporate Bank Total Total Banking Investment Banking Banking Treasury West 2002 2001 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Loans & Advances to Customers  197.9 Bad Debt Provisions including interest in suspense Specific 0.90.20.3 0.11.5 1.2 General 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.7 Gross Loans & Advances to Customers 159.1 23.6 44.6 1.9 7.3 236.5 199.8 Total Risk Weighted Assets 90.0 0.4 26.7 53.5 11.0 5.5 187.1 157.5 Total Customer Deposits 103.8 12.3 14.1 16.4 3.6 150.2 140.5 Net of securitisation.
The mix of the Groups gross lending portfolio at the year end is summarised in the following table: Classification of advances Bad Debt Provisions & The cumulative provisions and interest in 2002 2001 Non-Performing Assets suspense, which are deducted from advances % % Specific General Total in the balance sheet, together with their m m m percentage cover of NPAs are as follows: Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1 Energy 1 1 At 1 January 2002 1,102 667 1,769 2002 2001 Manufacturing industry 3 3 Amounts written off As % of As % of Construction & property 9 8 during the year 618 618 m NPAs m NPAs Hotels, restaurants and Charge for the year 795 37 832 wholesale and retail trade 4 3 Recoveries of amounts Specific Provisions 1,321 31 1,102 27 Transport, storage and previously written off 38 38 General Provisions 703 17 66716 communication 2 2 Exchange movements 4 1 3 Interest in Suspense 141 3 123 3 Financial 3 3 At 31 December 2002 1,321 703 2,024 Total 2,165 51 1,892 46 Other services 5 5 Individuals: The total charge for bad and doubtful debts of which: Residential Mortgages 62 64 against Group profits was 832m 2001 608m UK residential Other Personal 7 7 and represents 0.38% of average customer mortgages 38923 380 21 Overseas residents 4 3 lending 2001 0.33%.
Within this the charge Other advances 1,776 71 1,512 68 Total 100 100 for specific provisions increased 43% to Total 2,165 51 1,892 46 795m 2001 556m, representing 0.37% of After securitisation.
The Share of Operating Profit Loss general provision charge amounted to 37m Loans and advances to customers increased in Associates and Joint Ventures 2001 52m.
by 18% to 234.3bn after securitisations of Included within the share of operating 3.5bn in the year.
Within Retail Banking, profit loss in associates and joint Closing provisions as a percentage of period net mortgage lending was 23bn.
Credit cards ventures are the following items: end customer advances are analysed in the and personal loans also grew strongly.
following table: 2002 2001 Corporate advances grew 25% to 44.1bn m m 2002 2001 whilst Business Banking achieved 23% growth Lex Vehicle Leasing 13 12 to 23.2bn.
As stated in the Divisional Reviews, As % of As % of Centrica Personal Finance 18 17 this growth has been achieved without customer customer RFS 3 9 compromising on asset quality.
m advances m advances esure 13 14 Customer deposits grew by 7% to 150.2bn Specific Provisions 1,321 0.56 1,102 0.56 Sainsburys Bank 11 8 and wholesale funding by 26% to 126.4bn.
General Provisions 703 0.30 6670.34 Other 3 4 Total 2,024 0.86 1,769 0.90 Total 35 36 After charging goodwill amortisation.
Non-performing assets NPAs amounted to 1.80% of year end customer advances Taxation 2001 2.06%.
NPAs in respect of UK residential The tax charge for the year of 835m mortgages amounted to 1.17% of year end 2001 663m represents 28.7% 2001 28.9% advances 2001 1.47% and NPAs in respect of profit before tax compared with a UK of other advances amounted to 2.81% 2001 corporation tax rate applicable to the year 3.09%.
The amount of NPAs increased to of 30% 2001 30%.
The effective rate is 4,206m 2001 4,072m of which 1,697m lower than the UK corporation tax rate 2001 1,851m were in respect of UK mainly due to the net effect of lower tax residential mortgages and 2,509m 2001 rates overseas and interest deductible on Innovative Tier 1 Securities.
2,221m were in respect of other advances.
37 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Capital Structure Supervisory deductions mainly reflect Retail synergies are a mix of revenue 2001 investments in subsidiary undertakings benefits and cost savings that arise mainly 2002 Restated that are not within the banking group for from savings in central and support costs.
Deductions are made The negative net revenue benefits for the investments in Clerical Medical, for Insurance & Investment and Business Risk Weighted Assets St. Jamess Place Capital and St. Andrews Banking reflect costs incurred in expanding On balance sheet 173,534 147,119 Group.
Total deductions increased from operations in order to achieve revenue Off balance sheet 13,608 10,413 3,357m to 4,064m.
Corporate Banking synergies are Total Risk Weighted Assets 187,142 157,532 attributable to transactions leveraging off The Tier 1 ratio is 7.9% at 31 December 2002 Tier 1 the strength of the HBOS balance sheet.
and the risk asset ratio is 10.4%.
Share capital 1,346 1,292 Cost savings from Group Services arise across Less: own shares 17 5 In July 2002, the Group injected 600m support functions and IT.
into its Insurance & Investment Division for 1,329 1,287 One off costs of 153m, associated and investment in its life businesses and since Eligible reserves 12,620 10,148 necessary in achieving the synergies and 31 December 2002, additional capital of Minority interests equity 626 530 benefits, were charged in 2002.
132m was 500m has been provided to Clerical Medical.
Minority and other interests charged in 2001 and in total, by end 2004 Credit Rating non-equity : we expect to have incurred costs of 450m.
In June 2002 Standard & Poors revised its Preferred securities 1,802 1,789 The estimated profit and loss impact of outlook on HBOS plc and related entities Preference shares 198 198 total cost savings and revenue benefits to stable from negative.
At the same time Less: goodwill 1,787 1,537 excluding one off costs in each financial all ratings on all Group entities were year are shown below.
As Standard & Poors stated in their announcement of 12 June, The rating Annual Profit from Synergies m Tier 2 action reflects the continued strength of Undated subordinated debt 2,942 2,464 2001 actual 22 HBOS plcs balance sheet, underpinned by Dated subordinated debt 5,209 4,614 2002 actual 209 a significant equity placement in March 2002, General provisions 652 622 2003 470 despite rapid growth in business volumes.
2004 770 Total tier 2 capital 8,803 7,700 However, in January 2003 Standard & Poors 2005 800 Supervisory deductions: reversed the decision on the outlook, Unconsolidated investments re-instating a negative view reflecting From the end of 2004, cost savings and net pressure on HBOS balance sheet caused Life 3,503 2,704 revenue benefits are estimated to total at least by a combination of an ambitious growth Unconsolidated investments 800m per annum.
Cost savings will contribute strategy and the impact of equity market Other 309 298 385m and net revenue benefits 415m.
weakness on its life assurance subsidiaries.
Investments in other banks An analysis by division is provided below.
and other deductions 252 355 In November 2002, Moodys Investor Services Expected Run Rate Benefit from confirmed HBOS plc and related entities Total supervisory deductions 4,064 3,357 January 2005 rating outlook as stable.
Moodys stated that Net Total regulatory capital 19,527 16,758 the outlook also factored in the uncertainty Revenue Cost Tier 1 capital ratio % 7.9 7.9 surrounding the medium term prospects for Benefits Savings Total Risk asset ratio % 10.4 10.6 the UK economy and the domestic housing m m m market and that the diversity of the banks Retail Banking 70 140 210 Total regulatory capital increased during business is another key factor in driving Insurance & Investment 55 10 65 2002, from 16,758m to 19,527m.
Corporate Banking 150 150 1,258m net of expenses of Tier 1 capital The Groups credit ratings at operating bank Business Banking 120 120 level remain at AA with Standard & Poors, was raised between 5 and 7 March 2002, Treasury 20 25 45 Aa2 with Moodys and AA with Fitch.
through a placing in the market of 172.5m Group Services 210 210 new Ordinary Shares.
In addition, 283m of Merger Cost Synergies and 415 385 800 Tier 1 capital was generated as a consequence Revenue Benefits of certain shareholders electing to receive Total merger synergies of 209m, which are December 2001 Comparative Figures their 2001 final dividend and 2002 interim analysed by division below, are included in the The comparative figures for the year dividend in the form of shares under the 2002 Group profit before tax and exceptional ended 31 December 2001 have been Share Dividend Plan on 31 May and 25 items cost savings of 137m and net revenue restated primarily to reflect changes October 2002.
Tier 1 capital was further synergies of 72m.
The run rate from the end in accounting policies arising from the strengthened by internally generated of 2002 is estimated at 305m.
adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Tax, UITF 33 capital from retained profits net Obligations in capital instruments and Profit and Loss impact for Year to 2002 of additional goodwill.
the adoption of unsmoothed asset values Net for purposes of projecting cash flows in In June 2002, 3,479m of mortgage loans Revenue Cost determining income from the life assurance were securitised.
A further 349m of mortgage Benefits Savings Total businesses attributable to shareholders.
loans were securitised in July 2002.
These m m m Previously, a smoothed approach was securitised loans are not included within Retail Banking 28 62 90 adopted by HBOS.
The new methodology risk weighted assets.
Insurance & Investment 12 3 9 is consistent with that adopted by Tier 2 capital was increased during the year Corporate Banking 73 1 74 other bancassurers.
by undated subordinated debt issues of Business Banking 21 2 19 500m in November 2002, and dated Treasury 4 10 14 subordinated debt issues of 750m over Group Services 5959 October and November 2002 and US$450m 72 137 209 in November 2002.
38 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Review and Risk Management continued The effect of these changes on the reported results for 2001 are: As As Reported Adjustments Restated m m m Net operating income 6,872 6,534 Operating profit 2,670 2,332 Profit before tax and exceptional items 2,853 2,515 Profit before tax 2,630 2,292 All adjusted by: Effect of changing to unsmoothed asset values in embedded value calculations 320 Implementation of UITF 33 18 Profit after tax 1,865 1,629 Adjusted by: Aggregate adjustments noted above 338 Tax there on 92 Implementation of FRS 19 10 Profit attributable to shareholders 1,676 1,468 Adjusted by: Post tax adjustments as above 236 Impact of post tax adjustments on equity and non equity minority interests 28 Shareholders funds 11,468 11,413 Adjustments to 2001 profits as above 208 Adjustments to earlier years profits FRS 19 125 EV profits 28 Total assets 312,275 312,071 Total assets excluding long term assurance assets 274,674 274,470 Both adjusted by: Effects of changing to unsmoothed asset values in embedded value calculations 200 FRS 19 impact on interest in associates and joint ventures 4 Key ratios: Post tax return on mean equity % 18.2 15.1 Cost:income ratio % 44.749.2 Underlying earnings pence 56.6 47.7 Basic earnings pence 46.4 40.5 Tier 1 capital ratio % 7.9 7.9 Total capital ratio % 10.6 10.6 European Economic and The uncertainty that exists around the Internal Control Monetary Union EMU The Board has overall responsibility for the Governments intentions and timings is The Government has confirmed that it Groups system of internal control and for such that it is not possible to make an will make a decision on UK entry to the single reviewing its effectiveness.
This system has accurate assessment of the total costs currency within 2 years of commencement been in place throughout the period to the that would be involved in the euro of the current parliament i. e. by June 2003. date of approval of the Annual Report and changeover programme.
It is regularly reviewed by the The Group continues to monitor Government The Groups Operating Controls Board and accords with the Turnbull developments and remains actively involved This section reviews the Groups approach guidance on internal control.
in discussions within the Banking industry to risk management by describing: and other sectors of the economy to help In addition the Board has reviewed the assess the implications for the Group and general principles for internal control effectiveness of the system of internal its customers.
The Group has undertaken an and operating practices: control specifically for the purposes assessment of the potential impact arising of this statement.
the governance structure for the from UK entry to the single currency and Groups controls: The system of internal control provides what such a programme of work would for a documented and auditable trail entail.
This work is being undertaken the Group Risk functions which oversee of accountability and applies across under the direction of the Groups Euro risk management activities: and the Groups operations.
It covers strategic, Preparations Task Force, comprising senior the major types of risks to which the financial, regulatory and operational risks representatives of the Groups UK business and provides for assurances to successive areas and support functions.
39HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 levels of management and, ultimately, throughout the Group.
The Groups Audit market risk appetite, policy and guidelines to the Board.
Committee also acts as the audit committee to the Board.
It is supported by GFR, which for Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, monitors compliance with Group policies, The system is designed to manage, rather and is supported by five divisional Risk standards and limits and aggregates market than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Control Committees and the BankWest risks to monitor the overall Group position business objectives, and can provide only Audit Committee.
independently from the business divisions.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee, which meets at least Group Insurance and quarterly, inter alia reviews managements Investment Risk Committee Operating Principles and Practices procedures for: The Group Insurance and Investment The Group seeks to maintain high Risk Committee GIIRC is responsible standards of business conduct across identifying business risks and controlling for the implementation and maintenance all of its operations.
their financial impact: of the overall risk management framework The risk appetite of the Group is set preventing or detecting fraud: relating to investment, credit, market and by the Board.
The strategy for managing insurance risks, together with asset and ensuring compliance with regulatory and risk is formulated by the Executive and liability management, within the Insurance legal requirements: and recommended to the Board for approval.
and Investment Division of the Group.
The Group Management Board also reviews monitoring the operational effectiveness It recommends policy limits and the effectiveness of the risk management of policies and systems.
systems through reports from management The Audit Committee, which summarises It is supported by GFR, which monitors and from the Group risk committees.
its findings to the Board, obtains assurance compliance with the relevant Group policies, Management has the prime responsibility about the internal control and risk management standards and limits and aggregates certain for identifying and evaluating significant environment through regular reports from risks to monitor the overall Group position.
risks to the business and for designing GFR and GAROR and consideration of Group Operational and and operating suitable controls.
Internal external auditors reports and review of Regulatory Risk Committee and external risks are regularly assessed, the minutes and work of divisional Risk The Group Operational and Regulatory including control breakdowns, disruption Control Committees.
Risk Committee GORRC is responsible of information systems, competition The divisional Risk Control Committees for the overall operational and regulatory and regulatory requirements.
which are described under Divisional risk management framework across the Group.
The assessment process is consistent across Level Controls below and the BankWest It recommends policy and guidelines to the the Divisions and Group Functions and uses Audit Committee operate under delegated Board.
It is supported by Group Regulatory an iterative challenge process to provide authority from the Audit Committee Risk and Group Operational Risk, which successive assurances to ascending levels and the planning and co-ordination of recommend and monitor compliance of management up to the Board.
their activities is reviewed by the Audit with Group policies and standards.
The divisional Risk Control In judging the effectiveness of the Group Risk Committees review, on behalf of the Groups controls, the Board reviews the Group Risk consists of two functions, Audit Committee, the adequacy of the reports of the Audit Committee and GFR and GAROR, both of which report five business divisions systems of internal management.
It also considers key to the Group Finance Director.
The Chief control including financial, regulatory performance indicators and reviews Financial Risk Officer, Head of GAROR, and operational risk management.
monthly financial and business performance Head of Group Internal Audit, Head of showing variances against budgets.
Group Credit Risk Committee Group Regulatory Risk and Head of Group The Group Credit Risk Committee GCRC Operational Risk all have direct access Group Level Control is responsible for assisting the Board to to the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Group committee structure considers formulate the Groups risk appetite, policies and the Chief Executive.
risks and risk management from the Groups and strategies for managing the credit risk perspective and is supported by the Group The Group Risk areas provide functional facing the Group.
Risk functions, namely Group Financial Risk leadership for specialist personnel throughout GFR and Group Audit, Regulatory and It is also responsible for the implementation the Groups business areas and oversee risk Operational Risk GAROR.
Together they and maintenance of the Groups Credit Risk management activities across the Group provide central oversight by reviewing Management framework.
It is supported to ensure minimum standards are met and and challenging the work of the business by GFR, which monitors compliance with monitor aggregate risk data at Groupwide divisions own risk committees and by Group policies, standards and limits and and cross-divisional regulated entity levels.
providing functional leadership in the aggregates credit risks to monitor the GFR has three main areas of focus: development and implementation of risk overall Group position independently management techniques.
Group Asset and Liability Management monitors compliance with Group policies, Audit Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee standards and limits and aggregates market Without diminishing its own accountability, The Group Asset and Liability risks to monitor the overall Group position.
the Board has delegated certain Committee GALCO is responsible for responsibilities to the Audit Committee the implementation and maintenance of the Group Credit Risk monitors compliance including ensuring that there is regular overall risk management framework relating to with Group policies, standards and review of the adequacy and efficiency of balance sheet structure, market risks, trading, limits and aggregates all credit risks the internal control procedures and that funding and liquidity management across the to monitor the overall Group position.
there is a proper compliance structure Groups banking business.
It recommends In addition, specified Group Credit 40 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Review and Risk Management continued Risk colleagues have the authority to the regulators, when requested, on certain Group Wholesale Credit Committee, to sanction specific transactions.
aspects of internal controls and other matters.
The findings of those reports are also considered Group Insurance and Investment Risk The controls applied to lending assessment by the appropriate divisional Risk Control monitors compliance with the relevant processes consider environmental risk and Committees, Audit Committees and Boards.
Group policies, standards and limits and the potential impact this may have on the aggregates certain risks to monitor the Mapping and Managing Risk value of the underlying security.
The Group is subject to risks, inherent Insurance and Investment Risk in financial services activity.
The Groups GAROR has three main areas of focus: Insurance risk is the potential for loss arising principal activities are the provision of from poor experience in relation to insurance Group Internal Audit supports the retail, business and corporate banking contract pricing parameters for both life and Audit Committee, divisional Risk Control services, investment management and general insurance products.
Investment risk Committees and senior management by insurance.
It consequently makes loans is the potential for financial loss arising from reviewing independently and objectively to and takes deposits from customers the risks associated with the fund management the effectiveness of the control and and wholesale counterparties while the activities of the Group.
This includes both the risk environment.
activities of Insurance and Investment assets where the Group retains the primary Division carry investment management Group Regulatory Risk supports the risk and those assets where it is retained and insurance underwriting risks.
GORRC to recommend policies and by third parties, including policyholders.
standards on regulatory risk and cultural Credit Risk Day to day management of such risk issues for approval by the Board.
It is also This is the risk of financial loss from is undertaken both by line management responsible for oversight of the Groups a customers failure to settle financial and by specialist teams within the Insurance adherence to regulatory requirements obligations as they fall due.
Full use is made and for oversight of communications which was chaired until his retirement of the statutory Appointed Actuary and with regulators on a Group-wide basis, by the Executive Deputy Chairman, and Pension Scheme Actuary roles, both to with direct responsibility for relations thereafter by the Group Finance Director, ensure regulatory compliance in respect with the Financial Services Authority and is comprised of senior executives, meets of the authorised insurance companies in the FSA, the Groups principal regulator.
monthly in general and reviews the Groups Group and to meet HBOS control standards.
lending portfolio to ensure a Group-wide Group Operational Risk supports the understanding and control of credit risk.
GIIRC receives regular reports on specified GORRC to recommend policies and aggregate risks across the division.
standards on operational risk for approval Day to day management of credit risk by the Board, providing operational risk is undertaken by specialist credit teams Regulatory Risk oversight of the implementation of those working within each business area in This is the risk that the Group, or any policies and standards.
compliance with policies approved by part of it, fails to meet the requirements the Board.
A specialist support function or expectations of regulatory authorities Divisional Level Controls within GFR provides centralised expertise or supervisors responsible for enforcing Divisional Chief Executives have responsibility in the area of credit risk measurement legislation, codes, or regulations governing for managing strategic, market, credit, and management techniques.
Performance the way that the Groups business activities regulatory and operational issues affecting of each portfolio is reported to GCRC.
are conducted within the UK or elsewhere.
their own operations within the parameters Regulatory risk can also arise where the of the Group policies set by the Board.
In Retail Banking use is made, where it is Group fails to anticipate and manage All business divisions have divisional Risk practical to do so, of software technology regulatory change adequately.
Control Committees which comprise at least in credit scoring new applications and two independent Non-executive Directors and current account overdraft extensions.
Day to day management of regulatory risk an Executive Director, independent of that In addition, behavioural scoring is used.
is undertaken both by line management division, to provide objective assurance on Collections activity for credit card and and specialist teams of compliance experts the effectiveness of the divisions internal current accounts, and for personal loans, working within business areas.
Reports on control and risk management.
These is centralised for the various products, and regulatory risk management are made by committees meet regularly to review software systems are used to prioritise action.
business areas and divisions to their Risk the significant risks facing their divisions Mortgage collection is conducted through a Control Committee and individual company business and the techniques used to identify, number of payment collection departments.
Group Regulatory Risk assess and manage them.
Each business Within Business Banking, small business provides a high level assessment to the division also has its own risk management customers may be rated using scorecards Audit Committee.
committee or committees, which relevant in a similar manner to retail customers.
Operational Risk Larger SME small to medium enterprises HBOS has adopted the industry standard Regulatory Controls customers are typically rated in the same Basel Committee on Banking Supervision The Groups business areas are regulated by way as corporate customers.
Corporate definition of operational risk: a range of authorities including the FSA, the Banking conduct a full credit assessment Groups principal regulatory authority, and of the financial strength of each potential The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or regulators in overseas jurisdictions in which transaction and or customer, awarding failed internal processes, people and systems the Group operates.
Internal ratings are or from external events.
The Groups activities are monitored by The management of operational risk is an the regulators through periodic reviews For HBOS Treasury Services, policies intrinsic part of every business managers and inspections.
External auditors report are established and reviewed by the role.
HBOSs approach is to ensure business 41 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 managers identify, assess, prioritise and instruments typically resulting from The principal areas of market risk taken are manage all substantial risks in a cost movements in interest rates interest rate interest rate outright positioning, basis, spread effective and consistent manner.
risk, equity or other indices, and foreign and volatility risk, and foreign exchange exchange rates foreign exchange risk.
There is no material commodity or To this end HBOS uses a combination accountability for the management of market equity exposure.
of risk self assessment, risk event and key risk and responsibility for allocating limits for risk indicator analysis, appropriate insurance The current methodology for providing an banking activities, within the parameters set cover and contingency arrangements, together aggregated VaR for the business uses very by the Board, lies with GALCO.
with sound control procedures and systems.
In order to assess Interest Rate Risk the effectiveness of VaR the Group uses This approach is entirely consistent with the The primary market risk faced by the a technique known as backtesting which current requirements under the new Basel Group is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk compares the daily profit and loss from Capital Accord.
exists where the Groups financial assets trading activities to the VaR estimate for Each division and Group function and liabilities have interest rates set under that day.
Backtesting results show that the is required half yearly to compile an different bases or reset at different times.
VaR measure calculated for each day was operational risk profile which sets out never exceeded by profit and loss volatility The Group assumes interest rate the internal assessment of risk and controls during 2002.
Daily standard deviation of risk from dealings with customers, against consistent categories as a form trading profit and loss was 1.7m.
through fixed term lending, deposit of self certification.
These profiles are taking or derivative contracts.
This risk The Group recognises that the VaR presented to the Risk Control Committees, is monitored by Group and divisional methodology cannot guarantee the the Audit Committee and the Board and Asset and Liability Management within maximum loss that may be suffered in any are subject to independent review by the a framework determined by GALCO.
trading period, particularly in the event relevant risk teams.
They are also validated Trading activity is undertaken by HBOS of market turmoil.
Therefore, stress testing by Group Internal Audit during the course Treasury Services.
is used to simulate the effect of selected of their work.
The effect of interest rate movements is In addition a number of specialist support assessed using sensitivity analysis and other The Groups trading market risk exposure functions provide centralised expertise in modelling techniques.
Sensitivity to interest for the year ended 31 December 2002 operational risk areas such as information rate movements is shown in Note 44 to is analysed in Note 45 on page 106 of security, fraud, corporate insurance and the Accounts on pages 105 and 106 which the Accounts.
provides the year end repricing profile for Derivatives Liquidity Risk the Groups financial assets and liabilities In the normal course of banking business, Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will in the non-trading book, which includes the Group uses a limited range of derivative be unable to meet financial commitments lending, funding and liquidity activities.
instruments for both trading and non-trading arising from the cashflows generated by Foreign Exchange Risk purposes.
The principal derivative instruments its business activities.
This risk can arise Structural foreign exchange exposures, which used are interest rate swaps, interest rate options, from mismatches in the timing of cashflows are set out in Note 46 of the Accounts on cross currency swaps, forward rate agreements, relating to assets, liabilities and off-balance page 107, arise from the Groups investments forward foreign exchange contracts and futures.
in overseas subsidiaries, branches and The Group uses derivatives primarily as a risk The Groups UK liquidity is managed by other investments.
management tool for hedging interest rate HBOS Treasury Services.
It operates within and foreign exchange rate risk.
Foreign exchange exposures in Treasury a framework and policies determined by Services, which arise in the normal course The table over the page provides an GALCO which ensures that the Groups of business, are transferred to the trading illustration of the traditional banking funding requirements can be met at all book where they are managed within services and activities which can give rise times and that a stock of high quality GALCO approved limits.
to market risk exposures and the way in liquid assets is maintained in a form which this can be managed and mitigated and at a level which reflects prudent Trading by using derivatives.
The Groups market risk trading activities are principally conducted by HBOS Treasury A further objective is to raise funding Services in the UK.
The regulatory capital as cost effectively as possible whilst charge for market risk trading exposures ensuring that no significant unintended represents less than 1.58% of the Groups mismatches arise between loans and capital base.
Close control is exercised over both volume and quality of The Group employs several complementary short-term deposits, with the sources techniques to measure and control trading and maturities being managed to avoid activities including: Value at Risk VaR, sensitivity a concentration of funding requirements analysis, stress testing and position limits.
at any one time from any one source.
The VaR model used forecasts the Groups The framework ensures that the Group exposure to market risk within an estimated meets regulatory authority requirements.
level of confidence over a defined time period.
Market Risk The average VaR value in 2002 was 11.1m.
This is the risk of financial loss from The calculation is based upon a confidence changes in market prices of financial interval of 99% with a one day holding period.
42 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Review and Risk Management continued Activity Risk Type of Derivative Management of the investment of reserves and Sensitivity to falls in interest rates Receive fixed interest rate swaps other non-interest bearing liabilities Purchase of interest rate floors Fixed and capped rate mortgage lending Sensitivity to increases in interest rates Pay fixed interest rate swaps Purchase of interest rate caps Fixed rate savings products Sensitivity to falls in interest rates Receive fixed interest rate swaps Fixed rate funding Sensitivity to falls in interest rates Receive fixed interest rate swaps Fixed rate asset investments Sensitivity to increases in interest rates Pay fixed interest rate swaps Investment and funding in non-sterling Sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates Cross currency interest rate swaps currencies and interest rates Foreign exchange contracts Investment in assets issuance Sensitivity to changes in underlying rates and Interest rate swaps, caps and floors with embedded options rate volatility Matched swaps with embedded options The Groups activity in derivatives is controlled Pillar 1: Minimum Capital Requirements: within risk management limits set by GALCO.
Formula driven risk based capital This framework recognises the principal risks requirements to motivate banks to including credit, operational, liquidity and improve risk management and risk market risk associated with derivatives.
of derivative contracts outstanding at the Pillar 2: Supervision: Creating a year end are included in Note 41 of the supervisory framework and providing Accounts on pages 101 and 102. the regulators with powers to set The Basel Capital Accord capital requirements.
The new Basel Capital Accord BIS II will Pillar 3: Market Discipline: Requiring radically amend the established standards banks to disclose capital structure, risk for capital adequacy in banks.
It aims to: exposures and capital adequacy in a Ensure banks regulatory capital detailed, transparent manner.
requirement more accurately reflects their risk profile The expected date for implementation of BIS II is 1 January 2007, following a one Separate operational risk from credit year parallel running phase with BIS I, the risk and provide capital charges for each current framework.
More closely match regulatory and The Group has a strategic programme to economic capital, and prepare for BIS II, which is part of wider Encourage the use of internal ratings systems investment in the development of risk to derive regulatory capital requirements.
This is being overseen by the Risk Management BIS II is based on three pillars, designed Development Forum, which is chaired by to ensure that banks have an adequate the Chief Financial Risk Officer.
A Basel investment in the effective monitoring and implementation of risk management programme office co-ordinates activities models, practices and systems.
43 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Board Chairman Executive Directors appointed to the Bank of Scotlands Management Board as General Manager with Dennis Stevenson Mike Ellis responsibility for Bank of Scotland Treasury Age 57, Dennis was appointed a Director of Age 51, Mike joined Halifax Building Society Services plc.
In April 1999, Colin became a Halifax in May 1999 and became Chairman in June 1987 as Treasurer after holding several member of Bank of Scotlands Group in July of that year.
Following the merger of appointments in the local government sector.
Management Board and was appointed Bank of Scotland and Halifax in September He became Group Treasurer in June 1989, Divisional Chief Executive of Business Banking 2001, Dennis became Chairman of HBOS plc.
General Manager, Treasury and European before being appointed a Director of Bank of He is also Chairman of Pearson plc and a Operations in August 1992 and Managing Scotland in May 2000.
Following the merger Non-executive Director of Manpower Inc, Director, Treasury and Overseas Operations of Bank of Scotland and Halifax in September Chairman of the House of Lords in August 1995.
In December 1996, he became 2001, Colin became Chief Executive of the Appointments Commission and Chancellor Banking and Savings Director and in January Business Banking Division of HBOS plc.
1999, became Retail Financial Services Director Colin is a Fellow of The Chartered Institute with responsibility for Mortgages and Savings, of Bankers in Scotland.
Chief Executive Banking and Consumer Credit, General Insurance, Long Term Savings and Marketing, with Gordon McQueen James Crosby additional Board responsibility for Distribution.
Age 56, prior to joining the Bank of Age 46, James joined Scottish Amicable in In October 1999, Mike was appointed Chief Scotland in 1976, Gordon was with Ivory 1977 and spent 10 years as a fund manager Operating Officer of Halifax and following and Sime as an Equity Portfolio Manager followed by senior positions in IT, marketing, the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax from 1973 to 1975 and spent a year with finance and corporate development.
He led in September 2001, became Group Finance Hendry Widnell & Stewart Limited as Chief the establishment of the joint venture with Director of HBOS plc.
Mike is a Fellow of the Accountant.
He joined the International J Rothschild Assurance 1991 of which he Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland Division of Bank of Scotland where he was a Director until 1994.
In 1994 he joined and of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
held a variety of posts, culminating in his Halifax Building Society as Managing Director, He is also a member of the Chartered Institute appointment as General Manager of the Halifax Life and following the acquisition of of Public Finance and Accountancy.
Division in 1989 when he also became Clerical Medical in 1996 he became Financial a member of Bank of Scotlands Group Services and Insurance Director of Halifax plc.
In 1990 he became On 1 January 1999 James was appointed Age 44, Phil joined Allied Dunbar in 1984 and General Manager of Treasury Division Chief Executive of Halifax and also became became Managing Director before moving to and in 1993 became General Manager, a Director of St. Jamess Place Capital plc Eagle Star Life as Chief Executive.
Phil has run UK Banking-England, based in London.
In September 2001, following the UK life business of Zurich Financial Services April 1999, Gordon became Divisional Chief the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax, and was the founder of Zurichs UK Enterprise Executive, Group Treasury and Finance and James became Chief Executive of HBOS plc.
portfolio of new insurance, banking and Chief Executive of Bank of Scotland Treasury On 26 November 2002 he was appointed e-commerce operations.
He was appointed Services plc.
He was appointed a Director of a Non-executive Director of Granada plc.
Chief Executive of the Insurance & Investment Bank of Scotland in May 2000 and following James is a Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
Division of HBOS plc in September 2001 and the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax in is also Chairman of the HBOS Foundation.
Phil is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
September 2001, he became Chief Executive of the Treasury Division of HBOS plc.
Gordon Andy Hornby is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Age 36, after graduating from Oxford Andy Accountants of Scotland.
joined the Boston Consulting Group where he spent three years working on a range of George Mitchell projects, principally in the media and retail Age 52, George joined Bank of Scotland in sectors.
He then went to Harvard, where he 1966 and became an Associate of the Institute obtained his MBA.
On his return, Andy joined of Bankers in Scotland in 1971 and a Fellow Blue Circle, where he held a number of senior in 1993.
He has worked in a wide range of line management roles.
He moved to ASDA business areas and a number of locations in 1996 and held numerous roles including including London, New York and Hong Kong.
Director of Corporate Development, Retail In February 1994 George returned to Managing Director and finally Managing Edinburgh as General Manager with Director of George, ASDAs clothing business.
responsibility for the Banks Centrebank Andy joined Halifax on 1 November 1999 Division and was also appointed to Bank of as Chief Executive, Halifax Retail and was Scotlands Group Management Board.
In May appointed to the Board on 18 November 2000 he was appointed a Director of Bank of 1999.
Following the merger of Bank of Scotland and he also became Treasurer and Scotland and Halifax in September 2001, Managing Director of Bank of Scotland in he became Chief Executive of the Retail June 2001.
In September 2001, following Division of HBOS plc.
the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax, George became Chief Executive of the Colin Matthew Corporate Banking Division of HBOS plc.
Age 52, Colin joined Bank of Scotland in 1966 On 6 January 2003 he was appointed and in 1991 was appointed Divisional General Governor of the Bank of Scotland.
In 1994 he was 44 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Board Non-executive Directors a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc.
Brian Louis Sherwood is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Age 61, Louis is Chairman of Govett Charles Dunstone Brian is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts European Technology and Income Trust Age 38, Charles is Chief Executive Officer and the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
He is PLC and is also a Non-executive Director of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC, also a Freeman of the City of London and a of ASW Holdings PLC, ROK Property Solutions Europes largest independent retailer of Companion of the Institute of Management plc and Wessex Water Services Limited.
In mobile communications equipment, which and used to serve as a member of the 1988 he became Chairman and Chief Executive he founded in 1989.
In February 2000 he Scottish Economic Council.
of Gateway Foodmarkets until the takeover was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Gateway Corporation in 1989.
Louis was of Halifax and following the merger of Bank John Maclean formerly Chairman of HTV Group plc between of Scotland and Halifax in September 2001, Age 59, John is a Non-executive Director 1991 and 1997.
He joined the Board of Halifax Charles was appointed as a Non-executive of Scottish Value Trust PLC and a number in 1997 as a Non-executive Director and was Director of HBOS plc.
He was a Founder Chairman of Clerical Medical Investment and Director of Kelvin Shipholdings Limited, Deputy Chairman Sir Ronald Garrick Group from 2000 to 2001.
Following the a company involved in the ownership and Age 62, Sir Ronald was Chairman of the merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax trading of vessels in the dry bulk shipping Weir Group PLC between January 1999 and in September 2001, he became a Nonmarket.
John was appointed a Non-executive June 2002, having been Chief Executive since executive Director of HBOS plc.
Louis gained Director of Bank of Scotland in 1995 and 1982, joining as a graduate trainee in 1962. an MBA at the Stanford Graduate School of following the merger of Bank of Scotland and Sir Ronald was awarded the CBE in 1986 and Business and an MA at Oxford.
Halifax in September 2001, was appointed a Knighthood in 1994 for services to industry a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc.
Philip Yea and public life in Scotland.
He was Deputy Age 48, Philip held several senior Coline McConville Chairman of Scottish Enterprise from 1992 business and financial positions before Age 38, Coline is the Chief Executive Officer, to 1996 and is a former Director of Shell UK being appointed Finance Director of Europe of Clear Channel International Limited.
In September 2001, Guinness plc in December 1993.
Following She was previously with McKinsey & Co. following the merger of Bank of Scotland the merger with Grand Metropolitan to form Limited Management Consultants and and Halifax, Sir Ronald was appointed a Diageo he was Group Finance Director of the The L E K Partnership, the German based Non-executive Director of HBOS plc and in enlarged Group until the end of June 1999.
She started her career January 2003, he became Deputy Chairman He then joined Investcorp the international working for the Australian Consolidated Press of HBOS plc.
Sir Ronald is a Chartered investment group.
He is also a Non-executive in Sydney, Australia.
Coline was appointed Engineer and was appointed a Fellow of Director of Manchester United PLC.
Philip to the Board of Halifax in February 2000 the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1984. was appointed a Non-executive Director and in September 2001, following the Anthony Hobson of Halifax in October 1999 and appointed merger of Bank of Scotland and Halifax, Age 55, Anthony is Deputy Chairman of a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc she was appointed a Non-executive Northern Foods plc and a Non-executive following the merger of Bank of Scotland Director of HBOS plc.
Director of Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig and and Halifax in September 2001.
Philip Sir Bob Reid Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
A is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Age 68, Sir Bob was Chairman and Chief Chartered Accountant, he was Group of Management Accountants.
Executive of Shell UK Limited until 1990 Finance Director of Legal & General and Chairman of British Railways Board Group plc for fourteen years, retiring between 1990 and 1995.
He is Non-executive in February 2001.
He was the Senior Chairman of the International Petroleum Independent Director of Thames Water Exchange of London, Chairman of the Kings plc.
Anthony joined the board of Halifax Cross Partnership, Non-executive Director in May 2001 and, following the merger of of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada, Bank of Scotland and Halifax in September Siemens Holdings plc, Avis Europe plc, The 2001, he was appointed a Non-executive Merchants Trust plc and Sondex Limited.
Director of HBOS plc and is also Chairman He is also Chairman of the Foundation for of the Audit Committee.
Management Education and a Trustee of Brian Ivory the Foundation for Young Musicians, the Age 53, Brian was formerly Chairman Civic Trust and The IPE Charitable Trust.
Sir of Highland Distillers plc, having been Bob was appointed to the Board of Bank of a Director since 1978.
In 1988 he was Scotland in 1987 and was appointed Deputy appointed Managing Director of Highland Governor in 1997.
Following the merger of Distillers and was Group Chief Executive Bank of Scotland and Halifax in September from 1994 to 1997.
He was also Chairman 2001, Sir Bob was appointed the Senior of Macallan-Glenlivet plc from 1996 to Non-executive Director of HBOS plc.
1999 and Treasurer of the Scotch Whisky Sir Bob is a Companion of the Institute Association.
Brian is Chairman of The Scottish of Management and was awarded an American Investment Company PLC and a Honourary Degree as a Doctor of Laws Director of Remy Cointreau S. A. and is also from both St. Andrews and Aberdeen Chairman of the National Galleries of Scotland.
In February 1998, Brian was appointed a NonIn 1990 he was awarded an Honorary executive Director of Bank of Scotland and Degree as a Doctor of Science from Salford following the merger of Bank of Scotland and University.
He is Chancellor of Robert Halifax in September 2001, he was appointed Gordon University.
45 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting Employees Scotland had trade creditors outstanding the Report and Accounts of HBOS plc for The Group encourages applications for at 31 December 2002 representing 22 days employment from disabled people and gives the year ended 31 December 2002. of purchases for each company.
full consideration to such applicants based Principal Activities The Company itself owed no amounts on their skills and abilities.
In the event of HBOS plc is the holding company of the to trade creditors at 31 December 2002. an existing employee becoming disabled, HBOS Group.
The principal activities of the the Group provides counselling and training Share Capital Group are the provision of banking and other support and seeks to provide a suitable Full details of the movements in the financial services in the UK and overseas.
The alternative position within the Group if the authorised and issued share capital of the Groups existing business and future prospects individual is unable to continue in their Company during the year are provided in are reviewed by the Chairman on pages 2 previous role.
The Group offers training and Note 36 to the Accounts on page 98. and 3 and the Chief Executive as set out career development for all disabled staff.
On 27 February 2002 the Company in The Rough Report and in the Divisional The views of colleagues with a disability are announced a placing of its ordinary shares.
Financial aspects sought through disability forums to ensure 172.5 million shares were issued between are covered in the Financial Review and Risk that the Groups policies continue to recognise their requirements.
5 and 7 March 2002 at a price of 740p per Management report on pages 33 to 42.
A list share, raising proceeds net of expenses of of the main subsidiary undertakings, and the Employee communication issues are 1,258 million.
The proceeds of the placing nature of each companys business, is given reviewed on page 29. were used for general business purposes.
in Note 55 to the Accounts on page 112.
Charitable and Political Donations On 12 June 2002 the Company purchased Results and Dividends During the year the Group made charitable 14,626,075 ordinary shares representing The Group profit attributable to donations in the UK of 4.5 million.
0.4% of the issued ordinary share capital shareholders for the year ended Additionally 2.2 million in total has been from Halifax QUEST Trustees Limited for a 31 December 2002, as shown in the made available to charities as a result of consideration of 1,000.
On the same day Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, was their affinity to the Visa Charity credit cards these shares were cancelled and the Company 1,916 million.
An interim dividend of 9.8p offered by Halifax plc and Bank of Scotland.
issued the same number of ordinary shares, at per Ordinary Share was paid on 25 October Payment Policy their nominal value of 25p per share, to HBOS 2002.
The Directors propose a final dividend For the forthcoming period the Groups QUEST Limited.
The transaction, which was of 19.6p per Ordinary Share to be paid on policy for the payment of suppliers will approved by shareholders at the 2002 Annual 23 May 2003 to shareholders on the register be as follows: General Meeting, resolved an outstanding at the close of business on 14 March 2003, matter from the corporate restructuring of Payment terms will be agreed at the start subject to approval at the Annual General Halifax plc in 1999 and the subsequent merger of the relationship with the supplier and Meeting.
Shareholders will be offered the will only be changed by agreement: of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
The choice of receiving additional ordinary shares shares issued to HBOS QUEST Limited will be rather than cash in respect of this dividend.
Standard payment terms to suppliers of used to satisfy entitlements of employees of goods and services will be 30 days from Directors Halifax plc arising on the exercise of options receipt of a correct invoice for satisfactory Details of the present Directors are given under the sharesave schemes operated by goods or services which have been ordered on pages 43 and 44.
Lord Simpson retired as the Company.
and received unless other terms are agreed a Director at the conclusion of the Annual in a contract: The Company has authority to purchase General Meeting on 15 May 2002.
Sir Peter up to 356,656,709 of its ordinary shares.
Following Payment will be made in accordance with The authority remains valid until the Annual the agreed terms or in accordance with the Peter Burts retiral Sir Ronald Garrick was General Meeting in 2003 or, if earlier, law if no agreement has been made: and appointed Deputy Chairman of the Group 15 August 2003.
A resolution will be put to with effect from 6 January 2003.
Sir Ronald Suppliers will be advised without delay shareholders to renew the authority at the Garrick, Anthony Hobson, Andy Hornby, when an invoice is contested and disputes Annual General Meeting.
Coline McConville, George Mitchell and will be settled as quickly as possible.
Philip Yea, retire by rotation and resolutions At the date of this report there is HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment for their re-election will be proposed at the a disclosable interest in the issued Practice Code.
Information regarding this Annual General Meeting.
Particulars of share capital notified to the Company Code and its purpose can be obtained from Directors remuneration and interests in in accordance with sections 198 to 208 the Better Payment Practice Groups website shares of the Company are given in the of the Companies Act 1985, by Barclays PLC at www.
Report of the Board in relation to on 3 December 2002, in respect of 114,385,495 remuneration policy and practice The Companys main trading subsidiary ordinary shares being 3.02% of the current on pages 47 to 61. undertakings, Halifax plc and Bank of issued ordinary share capital.
46 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Report continued Post Balance Sheet Events On 31 January 2003, Insight Investment Management Ltd, a subsidiary of HBOS plc, acquired Rothschild Asset Management for consideration of 61 million.
Properties The Directors are of the opinion that the current market value of the Groups properties is not significantly different from the amount at which they are included in the balance sheet.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board H F Baines Company Secretary 24 February 2003 47 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice Brian Ivory Chairman, Remuneration Committee Letter from the Remuneration Committee As you will see in the pages that follow, this report provides comprehensive information on reward in HBOS, particularly in relation to Directors.
Legislation now requires more disclosure on current reward than ever before and the Committee and Board support that principle.
Just as importantly, however, we have very clear views on reward policy and practice: on colleague motivation through financial reward and by other means: and on the alignment of shareholder and colleague interests.
We think that it is important, therefore, that we set out to shareholders our general reward policy so that there is context to the specific reward practice covered later in this report.
For almost all colleagues in HBOS, from the most junior to the most senior, there are four common reward principles.
Salary policy is modelled around a median position in the UK financial services market, taking account of the general and specific knowledge requirements of each role, the skills needed to undertake it and the accountabilities it carries.
Salary practice also takes account of the talents which an individual brings to a role, the value of the outputs which that individual delivers and the individuals marketability and future potential.
Short-term annual incentives are linked to the delivery of our annual operating plans: are usually team based: and are, wherever possible, focused on line of sight issues namely the elements of the operating plans for which the team has prime or major accountability.
The outcomes of these incentive plans can be taken in cash, or the cash can be used to buy HBOS shares which are then enhanced in number by 50% if the shares are held for at least three years.
We believe that all our colleagues should be shareholders in HBOS and this is one way in which we encourage this behaviour.
Long-term generally three year or five year incentives are all share-based and are linked directly to the creation of shareholder value.
In HBOSs first full year of operation, the vast majority of colleagues although not our most senior team were granted share options so as to create a commonality of interest with shareholders.
In addition, we launched a sharesave scheme through which colleagues can buy HBOS shares by saving over three year or five year periods.
For our 140 most senior colleagues, the long-term incentive is focussed on share grants.
Outcomes are determined by whether HBOS creates more value for shareholders than the average created by its key competitors.
We compare HBOS total shareholder return TSR with the weighted average TSR of our eight key competitors.
No grants are released if we match, or if we are worse than, our competitors, taken collectively.
If our performance is better than that of our competitors, then colleagues get a proportion of that added value.
We know that many organisations pay out something for average performance and then make higher payments depending on where they finish in a league table of competitors.
We believe that our scheme is more aligned with shareholder interests in that it pays nothing for average and a share of added value for better performance, relative to our competitors.
In 2002, in terms of TSR, HBOSs performance was significantly better than the weighted average performance of our competitors.
Participants are not rewarded for this on the basis of that one year performance in isolation.
We have to sustain outperformance over at least a three year period before participants receive anything under the share grant scheme.
Whilst our current long-term incentive arrangements can operate until 2011, we recognise that these schemes, as a part of our total reward proposition, seek most closely to align the interests of participants and shareholders.
We therefore undertake actively to consult with shareholders on this issue every three years so that these designs continue to be relevant to both parties.
48 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued 4 Benefits.
The final key component in our reward package is benefits, of which the prime component is pensions.
We make provision for good pensions on retirement at age 60: for options to take those pensions on appropriate terms as individuals move towards that age: and for excellent protection for individuals and their families in the event of permanent ill-health or death.
This report gives full details of the benefits we provide for Executive Directors and the costs of doing so.
HBOS provides a comprehensive range of benefits and Group product offerings for all colleagues and, increasingly, is doing so through a flexible scheme which allows colleagues to choose from a menu of benefits to meet their personal circumstances.
Although we have talked here about the four key components of reward, we regard total reward as the ultimate remuneration measure for colleagues in much the same way as we regard total shareholder return as the ultimate measure for shareholders.
In total reward, we consider not only the aggregate reward opportunity but also what elements should be guaranteed or variable, what elements should be cash or shares, and what elements should be immediate or deferred.
For Executive Directors, for example, for every 100 of total expected reward namely the level of reward we expect them to receive for on-target performance about 52 is guaranteed.
The variable part could be as little as 0 or as much as 107 based on the outcomes of short-term and long-term incentive schemes each of which, as we said earlier, ultimately focus on the creation of shareholder value.
Finally, we would like to comment on merger bonuses.
A small number of colleagues but not Executive Directors received payments for extraordinary workloads at around the time of the merger in the second half of 2001.
We have not paid, nor will we be paying, any merger transaction bonuses.
But we will reward colleagues for making the merger a successful one.
In 2002, the senior team was given the additional remit of making merger synergy savings of 130m.
In practice, we delivered synergy savings of 209m.
As a result, those in the senior team of 620 who delivered those savings and also delivered their own operational objectives will receive additional incentives of 5.6m equivalent to 10% of base salaries with the option to invest such incentive in shares through our sharekicker facility.
We hope that this letter helps you understand our reward policy and practice and gives context to the specific details which appear later.
The detail of our reward practice is inevitably complex but the principles are simple.
They are right for colleagues and right for shareholders.
We hope that you will support them at our AGM.
49 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 1.
Introduction 1.1 Composition and Operation of the Remuneration Committee The remit of the Committee is given on page 62 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Committees members, who are all independent Non-executive Directors, are Brian Ivory Chairman, Sir Ronald Garrick, Coline McConville and Philip Yea.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Services Director and Head of Group Reward and Recognition attend meetings at the Committees request.
The Board determines overall remuneration policy for all Directors and other senior colleagues.
The Committee determines the actual remuneration arrangements of the Group Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Group Chairman and the Executive Directors determine the actual remuneration arrangements of the Non-executive Directors.
No Director is present when his or her own remuneration or contractual terms are being discussed.
The Committee has access to independent and external advice on remuneration matters.
The Committee does not retain advisers but uses organisations best suited to undertake specific projects from time to time.
For example, during 2002, the Committee took advice, directly or indirectly, from: Watson Wyatt, in relation to pension issues for Executive Directors: this organisation also advises the Group and the trustees of various Group pension plans on a range of pension issues: Herbert Smith, in relation to contracts for Executive Directors: Hay Group Management and Towers Perrin, in relation to reward issues for Directors: these organisations also advise the Group on a range of reward issues: and New Bridge Street Consultants, in relation to various policy issues for Directors and in relation to the preparation of this report: this organisation also provides independent performance measurement results for grants under the long-term incentive plan which applies to most senior colleagues.
1.2 Compliance Full details of the Groups approach to corporate governance, including compliance with the Combined Code appended to the Listing Requirements of the UK Listing Authority, are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 62 and 63.
The Board has followed the Combined Code as well as the new legislation contained in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations in preparing this Report and in designing performance-related incentive plans for senior colleagues.
1.3 Service Contracts In June 2002, the arrangements relating to the provision of the services of the Chairman were extended for a second three year term to June 2005.
If the contract is terminated by the Group prior to the expiry of the term, compensation up to the equivalent of one years fees may be payable.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which can be terminated by the Group on not less than one years notice and by the Director on not less than six months notice.
If any contract is terminated prior to the expiry of the term, contractual compensation up to the equivalent of one years base salary may be payable.
There is no contractual compensation entitlement for any of the Directors beyond this.
The Committee determines any discretionary payments made in such circumstances.
Executive Directors are expected to make reasonable efforts to mitigate for loss arising from early termination of their contracts.
In normal circumstances, it is the Committees policy to design service contracts for any newly recruited Executive Directors in a similar form to the contracts of existing Executive Directors.
The Committee believes this policy is appropriate as it maximises potential value for shareholders.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
1.4 External Appointments The Group recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Group.
Provided that it does not impact on their executive duties, Executive Directors are generally encouraged to accept one such appointment.
They may retain any resulting fee.
1.5 Share Ownership The Group believes that share ownership by colleagues throughout the Group enhances their alignment with shareholders interests.
Therefore colleagues in the Group are able to own shares through:- the sharesave plan: short-term incentive plans.
All colleagues can opt to take the whole or part of their annual incentive in shares rather than in cash, with those who take their annual incentive in shares and retain them for three years receiving a 50% enhancement of their shareholding: long-term incentive plans.
Share grants of varying percentages of salaries were made to the 140 most senior colleagues effective from the start of 2002.
Share options equivalent to 20% of salary were made to all colleagues other than the 40 most senior early in 2002: and personal purchase using the Groups sharedealing facility.
50 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice continued These plans assist the vast majority of colleagues throughout the Group to own shares.
They form a key element in the Groups commitment to creating a competitive, flexible and performance-oriented reward structure.
The Group expects all of its Directors including the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, together with other senior colleagues, to own significant numbers of shares relative to base salaries or fees.
In the case of the Directors the shareholding is expected to be at least 100% of base salary or fee within three years of appointment or by 1 January 2006 whichever is the later.
Remuneration Policy for Senior Colleagues 2.1 General Policy To deliver its objective of creating real increases in shareholder value relative to the finance sector, the Group needs to attract and retain the most capable and committed people and create the right employment conditions and reward opportunities for them.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors and their most senior colleagues is aligned with this objective.
Accordingly, the focus of remuneration policy is not primarily on salary but is on incentive plans that are closely aligned with the delivery of both operating plans and shareholder value.
Therefore, for 2003, as was the case for 2002:- salary policy is set at around market median: short-term incentive plans are based on the delivery of annual operating plans: and long-term incentive plans are focussed on share grants.
Participants do not receive any of these shares unless the Groups total shareholder return is above that of the finance sector as measured using the weighted average total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies.
This long-term plan is highly geared so that average performance generates no reward but outstanding performance generates relatively high levels of reward.
For remuneration purposes, roles in HBOS fall into one of eight Levels, 1-8.
This report covers Directors and other senior colleagues who fall into Levels 7 and 8, 140 colleagues in all.
2.2 Salary Salary benchmarks are reviewed annually, taking account of information from independent sources on salary rates for comparable jobs in the finance industry and in other selected major public companies.
Actual salaries are normally reviewed annually but can be reviewed at any time.
There is no automatic annual salary increase.
Current base salaries or fees of the Chairman and the Executive Directors after the most recent review in May 2002 July 2002 in the case of the aggregate fees payable in respect of the Chairman are:- Dennis Stevenson 495,000, James Crosby 660,000, Mike Ellis 490,000, Phil Hodkinson 375,000, Andy Hornby 450,000, Gordon McQueen 395,000, Colin Matthew 375,000, George Mitchell 490,000.
At the date of his retirement, Sir Peter Burts base salary was 632,500.
2.3 Incentive Plans The purpose of the incentive plans is to provide a direct link between each individuals remuneration and his or her performance, that of the business he or she works in and that of the Group, both annually and over the longer term.
All Executive Directors and a substantial majority of other senior colleagues participate in incentive plans which are Group-wide.
Performance targets and levels of participation differ in order to align overall individual remuneration with the Groups policy objectives outlined earlier.
Different, market-appropriate, arrangements exist for a small number of senior colleagues within the Group.
Payment of incentives, for Executive Directors and certain other individuals, is subject to the approval of the Committee.
Except in circumstances in respect of initial periods of employment, no Executive Director has a contractual right to an incentive.
Incentive arrangements to apply during 2003 are set out below.
1 Short-term Incentive Plans The levels of incentive payments are dependent, generally, on the extent to which participants achieve their operating plan objectives.
In 2003, for Executive Directors, payment of target incentive will require the achievement of targets which include earnings per share EPS and return on equity ROE and the attainment of a certain level of profit before tax PBT.
Examples of benchmark payment levels which apply for 2003 are as follows:- Category Incentive as a % of salary Target Maximum Executive Directors 40 60 Level 8 35 52.5 Level 7 30 45 EPS, ROE and PBT outcomes are reviewed by the Audit Committee for the purposes of determining outcomes under the plan.
