Report of the Directors continued The authority to purchase shares will last until the AGM of By order of the Board the company in 2003, or until the whole of the 14.9% has K M Burwood FCIS been utilised, whichever is the earlier.
The authority may For and on behalf of be renewed by shareholders at any time.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary 11 July 2002 The directors have no immediate plans to make such purchases but would like to be able to act should they consider it to be in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Corporate Governance Background matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The UKListing Authority requires all listed companies to Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board disclose how they have applied the principles and complied have been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, with the provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Application of the Codes Principles The Board attaches great importance to the matters set out The directors have access to the advice and services of in the Code and observes its principles.
It should be noted the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to representative who is responsible to the Board for day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The Chairman is an independent non-executive director.
The Board and Committees A senior non-executive director has not been identified as The Board currently consists of six non-executive the Board considers that all the directors have different directors, the majority of whom are independent of the qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead Companys Manager.
Their biographies, on page 4, where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial and When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a professional experience.
training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are The Board meets eight times a year and deals with the also provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the review and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors of investment performance.
The Manager takes decisions responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term Manager also ensures that all directors receive in a timely of three years, subject to re-appointment and the manner all relevant management, regulatory and financial Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the Board meeting enabling the directors to probe further on first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
18 Corporate Governance continued In November 1998 it was further agreed by the Board that, The Board is responsible for the Companys system of without changing its Articles of Association at present, the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
directors will retire every three years to ensure compliance However, such a system is designed to manage rather with Code Provision A.
The names of the directors than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the retiring by rotation at this years Annual General Meeting Companys business objectives and can only provide are given in the Notice of Meeting on pages 36 and 37. reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Management Engagement Committee.
Both committees The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review have defined terms of reference and consist of all the of the Companys business risks and these are analysed independent non-executive directors.
The Audit and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the annual Board receives each quarter from the Manager a formal accounts and the interim report, terms of appointment of report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of the auditors and their remuneration as well as the nonrisk, including those that are not directly the responsibility of audit services provided by the auditors.
It also meets with the Manager, and which reports the details of any known representatives of the Manager and receives reports on internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes and management information maintained on behalf of the a report from the Managers auditors on the control policies Company.
The Management Engagement Committee is and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken responsible for the review of the terms of the to embed the system of internal control and risk management contract with the Manager.
management into the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The Board has not established a Nominations Committee to make recommendations on the appointment of new The Company does not have an internal audit function: it directors.
The Board as a whole considers nominations delegates to third parties most of its operations and does made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
not directly employ any staff.
The Board will continue to monitor the internal control procedures in order to provide Directors Remuneration assurance that it operates as intended and the directors The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration will review from time to time whether a function equivalent and therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration to an internal audit is needed.
Since the Company is an investment trust and all its directors are non-executive, the Company is not Relations with Shareholders required to comply with the principles of the Code in The Board is keen that the AGM be a participative event respect of executive directors remuneration.
Directors which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The fees are detailed in note 7 to the Accounts.
Annual General Meeting is attended by the Chairman of the Board, who is also the Chairman of the Audit and Internal Control Management Engagement Committees.
Proxy votes The Board has established an ongoing process for received are relayed to the Meeting.
After the formal identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks meeting the Manager makes a presentation to faced by the Company.
This process is subject to regular shareholders.
The Company has adopted a nominee share review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control code which is set out on page 16.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
Twenty working days notice of the Annual General The process was fully in place from November 2000 Meeting has been given to shareholders, as required and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
19 Corporate Governance continued The Notice of Meeting on pages 36 and 37 sets out the The Manager has established an internal control business of the meeting and the special resolutions are framework to provide reasonable assurance on the explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on pages effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf 15 to 18.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is substantive issue.
assessed by the Managers compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
Accountability and Audit The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Exercise of Voting Powers the accounts and a statement of going concern is set out The Company has approved a corporate governance on page 17.
The Report of the Auditor can be found on voting policy which accords with current best practice page 21. whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The Board has delegated contractually to external agencies, Statement of Compliance including the Manager, the management of the investment The directors consider that the Company has complied portfolio, the custodial services which include the with all the material provisions set out in the Code safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, throughout the accounting period to 31 May 2002. company secretarial, administration and registration services.
It did not, however, comply with the following provisions, as Each of these contracts was entered into after full and explained above in greater detail: proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in a senior non-executive director has not been identified: operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the a Nominations Committee has not been established: and Company.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are a Remuneration Committee has not been established.
supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
