ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 17 The board of ICAP plc is committed to Combined Code and the Companys high standards of Corporate Governance.
Articles of Association all directors are The following statement details how the subject to election by shareholders at Group has applied the Combined Code the first opportunity following their Corporate Governance and reports on its compliance with the appointment and, subsequently, must provisions of the Code.
seek re-election at least once every three years.
Directors Directors and the board The Company The service contract of Stephen McDermott is headed by an experienced board of is for a period in excess of the maximum directors consisting of a non-executive of one year recommended by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, Combined Code.
The reasons for this are three further executive directors and given in the Remuneration Committee seven non-executive directors.
The board Report on pages 20 to 26. meets at least six times a year, half of those meetings being held in the US.
The board has delegated authority to the The board has a schedule of matters following committees of the board on specifically reserved to it for decision specific matters.
Each committee has a including strategy, financial policy and written constitution and defined terms of major acquisitions and disposals and has reference.
delegated authority to a number of committees each of which has specific i Audit Committee Members: areas of responsibility.
The committees Nicholas Cosh Chairman, are Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Robert Knox III, Donald Marshall, Risk and Compliance, and Treasury.
Paul Zuckerman The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors Information is provided in a timely and meets at least three times a year.
manner to directors for all meetings to The Committee meets with senior enable them to exercise their judgement executive management, the head of in the discharge of their duties.
All directors internal audit and the external auditors have access to the advice and services of the and reviews, inter alia, the annual and Company Secretary and procedures exist interim Financial Statements, reports to enable them to obtain independent from internal and external auditors and professional advice in respect of their the effectiveness of the Groups internal duties.
In reviewing the Financial Statements of the Group, it There is a clear division of roles and ensures that accounting policies adopted responsibilities between the Chairman are appropriate to the circumstances of and Group Chief Executive Officer.
It also reviews and approves is a balance between non-executive and the appointment of the external auditors, executive directors on the board refer to their proposed audit scope and fees.
In pages 12 and 13 for biographical details this regard it monitors the balance of of the directors.
Paul Zuckerman is the audit and non-audit fees to ensure that senior independent director.
All nonthe independence and objectivity of the executive directors, other than Charles external auditors is maintained.
All Gregson, Declan Kelly, Donald Marshall proposed non-audit assignments to be and John Nixon, are independent of undertaken by the external auditors, management and considered by the board with a fee in excess of 50,000, are to be free from any business or other subject to the Committees review and relationships which could materially approval.
As part of its consideration of interfere with the exercise of their the annual Financial Statements it has independence.
reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors have remained independent of the Group Nominations to the board are during the financial year.
recommended to the board by the Nominations Committee under its terms of reference.
In accordance with the ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 18 Corporate Governance continued ii Nominations Committee Members: developing and monitoring Group risk William Nabarro Chairman, policies including credit and reviewing Charles Gregson, Robert Knox III, major new business initiatives.
Michael Spencer, Paul Zuckerman The Nominations Committee comprises v Treasury Committee The Treasury four non-executive directors and one Committee, which comprises such executive director.
It recommends to the persons as are appointed by the board board appointments for the role of who may or may not be directors, Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
It meets executive and non-executive directors.
The monthly and is responsible for procedure for appointments is set out in developing, implementing and its terms of reference and the committee monitoring Group treasury policies.
Relations with shareholders iii Remuneration Committee The board is accountable to the Companys Members: Paul Zuckerman shareholders for the performance and Chairman, Nicholas Cosh, William activities of the Group and is aware of Nabarro The Remuneration Committee the importance of maintaining good comprises three independent nonrelations and communications with all executive directors.
It has a continuing Committee is responsible for determining programme of meetings subject to the salaries and other remuneration of the regulatory constraints with its major executive directors and certain employees.
institutional shareholders both in the It does not determine the fees payable to UK and overseas, where a wide range the non-executive directors, which are of relevant issues is discussed and their considered and approved by the entire views sought.
Directors are not involved in section of the Companys website, deciding their own remuneration.
com, gives shareholders access to the texts of all Stock Exchange and iv Risk and Compliance Committee press announcements.
The board The Risk and Compliance Committee, recognises that the Annual General which comprises such persons as are Meeting provides shareholders with an appointed by the board who may or may opportunity to receive information on not be directors, is chaired by David Gelber.
the Companys business performance A quorum consists of either two and to question senior management on directors of the Company or one director any business matters.
of the Company and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Compliance.
It meets at least every two months and is responsible for addressing compliance issues throughout the Group and ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 19 Accountability and audit transaction, through trade World Trade Center, 11 September 2001 Directors responsibilities The directors' mismatches or other errors.
Such As part of its review of the effectiveness statement regarding their responsibility exposure is limited to any price of the Groups system of internal control for preparing the Company's Financial movement in the period from when the board has considered the impact of Statements is set out in the Directors' the position arose to when it is closed the events of 11 September 2001 on the Report on page 16 and the Independent and can be either to the Groups Groups operations.
In common with other Auditors' Report regarding their reporting advantage or disadvantage.
market participants the Groups operations responsibility is detailed on page 27.
Procedures exist to reduce the were affected by the disruption caused to likelihood of such trade mismatches the operation of the US financial markets.
Internal control The board of directors and to minimise their impact: This, together with the requirement to is responsible for the Groups system of in certain specialist areas the Group resume operations as rapidly as possible, internal control and for reviewing its does take positions and these are gave rise to an exceptional number of effectiveness.
Such a system of internal strictly controlled via position limits unmatched trades, initially unsettled control is designed to manage rather than which are monitored by the relevant transactions and a substantial overdraft eliminate the risk of failure to achieve regional credit officer.
These are then balance all of which were subsequently business objectives and can provide only regularly reported to the Risk and satisfactorily settled.
The system of internal reasonable and not absolute assurance Compliance Committee: control has been restored in the Groups against material misstatement or loss.
market and counterparty risk is US operations.
monitored on a regular basis by credit There is an ongoing process for identifying, officers to review the quality, Internal Audit The Group has an internal evaluating and managing the significant reputation and financial strength audit function which undertakes reviews risks faced by the Group, which has been of customers: within the Group and provides objective in place during the year under review and regular internal audit visits to Group assurance to the board, via the Audit up to 28 May 2002, the date of approval operating companies to carry out Committee, on the operation and of these Financial Statements.
The process reviews of systems and procedures effectiveness of the system of internal involves local management identifying and and compliance with Group policies: control within the Group.
evaluating risks specific to their businesses senior management within each and regions and then periodically reporting region have responsibility for the The Group Head of Internal Audit and formally on this risk assessment to the establishment of appropriate control Compliance has direct access to the Groups management.
frameworks within their operations Audit Committee and its Chairman.
to ensure compliance with Group The Audit Committee reviews at least The key elements of the internal control policies, procedures and standards.
annually the authority, scope of work system are: They are also responsible for ensuring and resources of the Groups internal that risks within their businesses are audit function.
a comprehensive budgetary process, identified, assessed, controlled and with both annual and regular forecasts monitored on an ongoing basis.
Regulation The Group is regulated on being considered and approved by a consolidated basis by the UK Financial the board: The board, through the Audit Committee, Services Authority for the purposes of monthly monitoring of trading results, has conducted an annual review of the the European Investment Services balance sheet and cash flow against effectiveness of the system of internal Directive and by the Securities and budget and prior periods with control covering all controls including Exchange Commission in the US.
Most significant variances being investigated financial, operational and compliance Group operating companies are subject and appropriate action taken: controls and risk management.
to regulatory controls in the countries in regular visits to Group operating which they operate.
Adherence to these companies by board members and The Group has investments in a number regulations is monitored, where applicable, senior management: of joint ventures and associated companies.
by local compliance officers who report all transactions authorised in Where the Group is not directly involved regularly via the Group Head of Internal accordance with delegated authority in the management of the investment it Audit and Compliance to the board.
limits approved by the board: can influence, through board representation, the Group primarily acts on an but not control the internal control systems agency or matched principal basis present in those entities.
The boards review E. C. Pank Company Secretary and as such is not usually at risk from of the effectiveness of the system of internal currency, interest rate or price controls in those entities is consequently movements.
Market risk arises on less comprehensive than in its directly unsettled transactions where one or owned subsidiaries.
both counterparties fail to fulfill their obligations under a matched
