Directors Report continued Environmental responsibility Insurance The Group recognises the importance of environmental The Company has an appropriate level of Directors responsibility.
Steps taken to date include: and Ofcers Insurance cover.
carrying out a full review of the Groups activities Annual General Meeting to understand where it impacts the environment The notice convening the Annual General Meeting in order to make and manage improvements: to be held on 8 November 2002 at 11.30am can drafting an Environmental Policy, which lays out be found in a separate notice accompanying the the Groups commitments in relation to protecting Annual Report.
the environment, and promoting it to all Group employees through the in-house staff magazine: Auditors appointing an Environmental Committee to On 26 July 2002, Arthur Andersen resigned as regularly discuss environmental issues and drive auditors and Deloitte & Touche were appointed forward improvements in the Groups in their place.
The Directors will place a resolution environmental performance: before the Annual General Meeting to appoint working with the Groups manufacturers and Deloitte & Touche as auditors for the ensuing year.
suppliers to help reduce the energy consumption of the consumer products with which the Group By order of the Board is associated.
David Gormley The Group has completed its first Environmental Company Secretary Report and a complete version of this can be found 30 July 2002 in the corporate section on the Companys website, www.
com as it does not form part of the Annual Report.
Corporate Governance BSkyB is committed to high standards of corporate Secretary.
In addition, the Board members have consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
governance and, except as noted below and within access to external professional advice, although no The Remuneration Committee comprises two Nonthe Report on Directors Remuneration, has complied advice has been sought to date.
Executive Directors, both of whom are appointed by throughout the year with the best practice provisions Holdco David DeVoe and Rupert Murdoch.
John of Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate Appointments of Independent Non-Executive Directors Thornton, an Independent Non-Executive Director, governance the Code appended to the Listing are for an initial term of three years, subject to initial acts as Chairman.
The Company, whilst noting that Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
election by shareholders following appointment, the composition of the Committee does not comply subsequent re-election by shareholders, and Companies with the Code, which requires that all the members The Board Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
should be Independent Non-Executive Directors, The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, made up In addition, re-appointment for a further term is not does not intend to change the rights that exist for of two Executive Directors, five Shareholder Appointee automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
Holdco to appoint members to the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors and five Independent NonThe Board have decided however that two more Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of The Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors will be the Company bring a wide range of experience and who are not Shareholder Appointees comply with the appointed to the Committee.
expertise to the Companys affairs and they carry requirement for Directors to retire and offer themselves significant weight in the Boards decisions.
Short for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board also notes that the Remuneration biographies of each of the Directors are set out on Committees objective on Executive Directors page 18, which also clearly identify those Directors The Shareholder Appointee Non-Executive Directors service contracts does comply with the Code.
This who are, in the view of the Board, independent appointed by Holdco, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is more specically discussed on pages 22 and 23. within the meaning of the Code.
are not subject to election by shareholders, nor do they have to retire by rotation as required by the The Report on Directors Remuneration can be The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are Code.
The Articles of Association of the Company found on pages 22 to 24.
The Company does not separate and have been so since the Company obtained permit News Corporation or such subsidiary of propose to put forward the report for approval by its listing in 1994.
During the year the Company had News Corporation to appoint a number of Directors shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
not identied a Senior Non-Executive Director as dependent on their shareholding in the Company.
The board has decided that Holdco has the right to appoint five Directors.
The Audit Committee during the 2003 financial year a member of the Board right of Holdco to appoint Directors was agreed with The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of will be appointed as a Senior Non-Executive Director.
the London Stock Exchange at the time of otation.
Non-Executive Directors, has clearly dened terms of reference as laid out by the Board.
The Committee There is not a majority of Independent Non-Executive The Group Executive Committee generally meets is chaired by Philip Bowman, an Independent NonDirectors as required by the Code.
The Board has more regularly than the Board to allow prompt Executive Director, and its members are John noted this requirement and is currently in the decision making and discussion of business issues.
Thornton, an Independent Non-Executive Director, process, with the help of an executive recruitment It is chaired by the Chief Executive officer and Allan Leighton, an Independent Non-Executive consultancy, of recruiting additional Independent comprises the Chief Financial officer and other Director, and David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind, both Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
senior executives from within the Group.
of whom are Directors appointed by Holdco.
It meets not fewer than four times a year to review The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times Board Committees all significant judgements made in the preparation of a year to review appropriate strategic, operational The Articles of Association contain certain rights for the quarterly, half yearly and annual financial results and financial matters as required.
A schedule of Holdco, dependent on its shareholding in the Company, before they are submitted to the Board.
It reviews items reserved for the full Boards approval is in to appoint and remove members of any standing with the external auditors the nature, scope and cost place, which includes, inter alia, the approval of Committee established by the Board.
Holdco has of their work, discusses with them the results thereof, annual and interim results, significant transactions, the right to appoint two members to any Committee.
and reviews the audit plans and findings of the agreements or arrangements between the Group Groups internal audit function, together with any and members of News Corporation, major capital Remuneration Committee related party transactions entered into by the Group.
expenditure and the yearly business plan and budget.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the The Committee has the power to seek external Board, is responsible for recommending to the Board advice as and when required.
The Board has also delegated specic responsibilities the framework and policy for Executive Directors to Board committees, notably the Audit and the remuneration and remuneration for any Executive Nomination Committee Remuneration Committees.
Directors receive Board of the Company earning in excess of 250,000 per During the year the Company had no formal and Committee papers several days in advance annum.
The Committee has clearly dened terms of nomination committee as required by the Code.
of Board and Committee meetings and also have reference, meets not less than once a year and takes The Board has agreed that a Nomination Committee access to the advice and services of the Company advice from the Chief Executive and independent consisting entirely of Non-Executive Directors will be British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 21.
Corporate Governance continued established during the 2003 financial year.
This will Internal control The Audit and Risk Management team provides ensure compliance with the Code going forward.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the The Company has, from time to time, engaged an Groups systems of internal control and risk Groups systems of internal control and risk executive search company to assist in the recruitment management and for reviewing the effectiveness management to the Groups operating management of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
These systems are designed to and to the Board.
candidates who are nominated to serve on the Board manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure meet with the Chairman and Chief Executive and other to achieve business objectives and to provide Use of auditors for non-audit services members of the Board.
They are then put forward for reasonable but not absolute assurance against The Group has a policy for the provision of non-audit consideration and appointment by the Board as a whole.
An ongoing process services by the auditors, which categorises such for identifying, evaluating and managing the services between: Appointment of Directors significant risks faced by the Group has been David Evans, an Independent Non-Executive Director, established, in accordance with the guidance of those which are acceptable for the auditors to was appointed to the Board on 21 September 2001. the Turnbull Committee on internal control issued in provide: September 1999.
This process has been in place for those which are unacceptable for the auditors to The Company has made a number of changes to the whole of the year ended 30 June 2002 and up provide: and comply more fully with the Combined Code and to the date the financial statements were approved.
those for which specic approval is required before will continue to consider opportunities to further the auditors are permitted to provide the services.
improve its corporate governance compliance.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of The policy defines the types of services falling under Communication with shareholders the Groups systems of internal control and risk each category and sets out the internal approval The Board is keen to maintain a dialogue with management during the year and this review has mechanisms required prior to any appointment.
An institutional shareholders in order to ensure that the been carried out during the year ended 30 June analysis of the services provided by the auditors is objectives of both the Company and the shareholders 2002.
This review relates to the Company and its reviewed by the Audit Committee at each meeting.
A programme of meetings with subsidiaries and does not extend to material joint institutional shareholders, fund managers and ventures which the Group does not control.
For the year ended 30 June 2002, the Audit analysts takes place each year.
The Company also Committee has discussed the matter of audit makes presentations to analysts and fund managers There is a comprehensive budgeting process and independence with Deloitte & Touche, the Groups following the half year and full year results of the the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and external auditors, and has received and reviewed Company, the slide presentations for which are updated, is approved by the Board.
Risk assessment conrmation in writing that, in Deloitte & Touches available on the Companys corporate website.
and evaluation take place as an integral part of this professional judgement, Deloitte & Touche are process.
Performance is monitored against budget independent within the meaning of regulatory The Board views the Annual General Meeting as through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
an opportunity to communicate with private investors Monthly reports on performance are provided to and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders the Board and the Group reports to shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
made to the shareholders, reviewing the previous years activities of the Company and its plans for Each area of the business carries out risk the forthcoming year.
The Company, in accordance assessments of its operations and ensures that with the Code, announces the number of proxy votes the key risks are addressed.
A Risk Management cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial officer and comprising senior executives, reviews the management Directors Responsibilities of risks in all areas of the business on a cyclical basis.
The responsibilities of the Directors are set out The results of the Risk Management Committees on page 25. review are reported to the Audit Committee.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
