Directors Report on Corporate Governance The company believes in and is committed to practising the highest practicable standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in section one of the Combined Code the Code have been applied.
Statement of Compliance The company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section one of the Code throughout the year to 31 December 2002 save as disclosed on page 46 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The chairmen of the audit and compliance, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this years Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday, 25 April 2003.
Going concern The Code requires directors to report, under the terms set out in the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis in preparing financial statements.
The directors consider that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Board The board of directors currently comprises six executive directors and seven non-executive directors, five of whom are regarded as independent directors.
The biographies of the directors appear on pages 24 and 25.
These demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to the success of the group.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The board meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible for the groups objectives and policies.
The board focuses mainly on strategy and on investment and financial performance.
To enable the board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information 36 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 ensuring they are properly briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings.
In addition, all directors have access to senior management and can request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further explanation or written papers on matters as they see t. The board has a detailed list of matters specically reserved to it the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors Guide, a training and reference document issued to all directors on appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List is reviewed annually and sets out clearly the delegated authority from the board to board committees and management.
This ensures that matters of signicance are overseen and reviewed by the board prior to implementation.
During the year the board met formally on eight occasions.
Board composition ISIS Asset Management plc ISIS is a quoted subsidiary of Friends Provident plc FP, which owns 67.1% of the company.
There are, in addition to a formal agreement to manage funds on behalf of FP, various other arrangements in place between ISIS and FP, all of which are governed by independent agreements approved by shareholders.
New business created by FP has a direct benefit to ISIS and ISISs investment performance has a direct impact on FP and its ability to develop its business.
Because of this relationship, close co-operation and understanding of each others businesses and strategies is important.
To facilitate this, two of ISISs non-executive directors are FP executive directors, being Keith Satchell FP Group Chief Executive and Brian Sweetland.
In addition, Christopher Jemmett is an independent non-executive director of both FP and ISIS.
The other non-executive directors of ISIS are Sir David Kinloch an executive director of Caledonia Investments plc, Keith Bedell-Pearce, David Gray and Kenneth Inglis.
Howard Carter, as Chief Executive of ISIS, is a director of FP, providing the executive cross-over onto the FP board.
Howard Carter receives no remuneration or benets from FP.
The ISIS board has considered this structure from a corporate governance standpoint and believes that the current structure is in the best interests of all shareholders.
The ISIS board considers Sir David Kinloch to be an independent chairman respecting that some parties may hold a different view as a consequence of his being an executive director of Caledonia Investments plc, a 6.2% shareholder of the company.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 37 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The ISIS board considers Mr Jemmett to be independent, respecting that some parties may hold a different view as a consequence of his being a non-executive director of FP.
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Gray and Inglis meet the criteria of independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
The ISIS board annually reviews the composition of the board and, following discussions with shareholders, has included this section in the Directors Report to ensure that all shareholders are fully informed of the position taken by the ISIS board.
The Board Committees The board has established a number of standing committees to facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the group.
Each committee has detailed terms of reference which are reviewed and approved by the board annually and include authority to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the companys expense.
a The Remuneration Committee The committee is chaired by Mr K W B Inglis.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the groups remuneration policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 64 and, within that policy, for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and of certain other senior staff within the group.
It is also responsible for the companys incentive schemes for employees, including the bonus scheme and the grant of share options and long term incentive plans.
Mr Sweetland stood down as a member of the remuneration committee on 20 December 2002 and was replaced by Mr Bedell-Pearce following his appointment to the board on 18 December 2002.
The Committee is now comprised solely of independent non-executive directors.
Members of the remuneration committee: K W B Inglis Chairman, Sir David Kinloch, K L Bedell-Pearce.
During the year the committee met on twelve occasions.
38 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 b The Audit and Compliance Committee The committee is chaired by Mr C M Jemmett.
The committee meets at least four times a year to review the Interim Report and Accounts and the Annual Report and Accounts and other matters as appropriate.
Senior management attend as required.
These meetings are also attended by senior members of the groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
In addition to reviewing issues of accounting policy and financial statements issued to shareholders, the committee considers the independence, competence and effectiveness of the external auditors and the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit and compliance function.
Members of the audit and compliance committee: C M Jemmett Chairman, D M Gray, Sir David Kinloch, B W Sweetland.
Two members of the committee are qualied chartered accountants and one member of the committee is a solicitor.
During the year the committee met formally on four occasions and informally on a number of occasions to discuss and consider business matters including the award of non-audit related consultancy work.
c The Nomination Committee The committee is chaired by Sir David Kinloch.
It is responsible for considering and recommending to the board the appointment of all new board members and the appointment of non-executive directors to any board committee.
The committee also annually reviews the contribution of the directors and considers each directors re-appointment prior to an appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election at least every three years.
Members of the nomination committee: Sir David Kinloch Chairman, K Satchell, H Carter.
During the year the committee met on three occasions.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 39 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Management Committee The executive management committee, comprising Messrs H Carter, P A K Arthur, K J Back, N Criticos, I Paterson Brown and R Talbut, being the executive directors of the company, it is accountable and responsible for implementing board strategy and for the day-to-day running of the business.
The management committee, in addition to overseeing the implementation of the strategy, regularly reviews business issues and matters not reserved for the board as a whole.
This committee has a reserved list to assist it in carrying out its functions.
Directors The directors at any time during the year ended 31 December 2002 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58.
Mr K L Bedell-Pearce, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Board during the year.
As such he retires at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Mr N Criticos, an executive director, was appointed to the Board during the year.
Mr I J Paterson Brown, an executive director, was appointed to the Board during the year.
Mr R Talbut, an executive director, was appointed to the Board during the year.
Sir David Kinloch, the Chairman and an independent director, Mr P A K Arthur, an executive director, Mr H Carter, the chief executive director and Mr K Satchell, a non-executive director, retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr B Sanjana resigned as a director on 28 June 2002.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment can be found on pages 56 and 57.
40 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Details of the directors offering themselves for election or re-election can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The company welcomes the views of shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual understanding of objectives.
The Annual General Meeting of the company provides a forum both formal and informal for investors to meet and discuss issues with directors and senior management of the company.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2003 can be found in the notice of the meeting on pages 113 to 115.
At its Annual General Meeting, the company complies with the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the annual general meeting complies with the Code.
Investee company corporate governance and voting policy ISIS has established a corporate governance committee to address, amongst other things, issues and policies in respect of investee companies.
The company aims, where practicable, to implement these policies on a global basis, subject to client agreement.
The policies are implemented as part of the investment discipline and are carried through into the execution of the voting policy.
The principles, which are available to investee companies, are applied in a pragmatic and sensible manner that recognises that businesses are dynamic organisations.
The company is therefore seeking to understand the governance culture rather than merely to confirm compliance with rules and regulations which in some cases may be neither applicable nor appropriate.
Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
Managements role is to implement and operate the board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 41 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, has complied with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The procedures that the directors have established are designed to provide effective control within the group and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 4 March 2003, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
A high-level overview of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
Control environment The group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of the business.
The group has in place appropriate procedures for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required standards of business conduct.
The group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve group objectives.
The structure is designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the groups business.
Operational responsibility rests with the group chief executive and is devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of group management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the systems of internal controls within the groups business.
Business risks The identication of major business risks is carried out in conjunction with management and procedures to control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each of the business units which include issues of material business risk and these reports form the basis of reporting to the board on a regular basis.
42 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Monitoring and corrective action As with other businesses operating in the financial services sector, there is a formal compliance function in addition to an internal audit function.
The audit and compliance team within ISIS conducts regular monitoring of various business areas and control procedures in line with a plan agreed with the audit & compliance committee.
A formal written report is prepared monthly from such reviews and issued to the audit & compliance committee and members of the management committee.
Any issues of signicance are brought to the attention of the board by the audit and compliance department and through the regular reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the audit and compliance committee.
The audit and compliance committee reviews the effectiveness of the operation of this framework at least twice each year.
Independence of the auditors The board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the independence, integrity, competence and professionalism of the groups auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence and balancing that with the best interests of the company, the board has a clear policy for awarding non-audit work to the groups auditors.
The company does not impose an automatic ban on the groups auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving accountancy rms carried out in a manner that affords value for money.
The accounting rm must not be in a position of conict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the group.
Any award of work to the auditors, irrespective of value, requires the prior approval of the audit and compliance committee.
The committee considers whether the work:.
is so closely related to the statutory audit for example, related assurance work, which would include FRAG 21 work, regulatory reports and tax compliance work: or.
is such that a detailed understanding of the group is necessary for example, due diligence and tax advisory work and work preparatory to a shareholder circular, ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 43 Directors Report on Corporate Governance that, in the absence of any conict of interest, it is considered in the best interests of the group to have the work carried out by the auditors.
It should also be remembered that audit rms have an internal control process that aims to eliminate conict and ensure objectivity in dealing with clients.
The auditors are specically excluded from undertaking any assignment or work that would involve them either in auditing or reviewing their own work or in providing services that would require them to function as part of the management of the business.
The award of any other type of non-audit work will be the subject of a short list of appropriate providers if in excess of 30,000 and the subject of a formal tender process wherever appropriate.
Irrespective of the value of the contract, such work will always be awarded to the accounting rm who has the necessary skill, competence and integrity and offers the best value for money in the best interests of the group.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of auditors are reviewed annually by the audit and compliance committee.
When the committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit rms judged competent to meet the needs of the group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the needs of the group and prevailing leading practice.
During the year, Deloitte & Touche, KPMG, Andersen and , who are independent of the external auditors, provided non-audit related services to the group.
Details of fees paid to accounting rms during 2002 are disclosed in note 4 on pages 79 and 80 of the notes to the financial statements.
44 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Future developments The board believes that the controls in place during 2002 have been appropriate to the needs of the group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the requirements of the Financial Services Authority FSA and leading practice.
The recommendations contained in the Higgs review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and the guidance offered to boards and audit committees in the report by Sir Robert Smith, both published in January 2003, are being considered by the company with a view to timely and appropriate implementation.
Any necessary changes will be made so as to ensure that the interests of the groups clients and the companys shareholders continue to be protected.
By order of the board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary One Charlotte Square Edinburgh EH2 4DZ 4 March 2003 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 45
