Law Debenture Corporate governance The directors consider that during the year, the Group has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Groups approach to these matters is set out below.
The board and committees The board of the Corporation is comprised of a majority of non-executive directors and meets regularly throughout the year.
It has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with specific terms of reference, the membership of which is shown on page 7.
Matters specifically reserved for board decision have been defined and procedures put in place to enable independent professional advice to be taken by individual directors at the Corporations expense.
Audit Committee and internal controls The board monitors the effectiveness of internal controls in a number of ways, both directly through main board general reviews and also via the more specific work carried out for the Audit Committee.
The various mechanisms can be summarised as follows: Board review of the Groups matrix of risks and controls, which has been updated during the year An internal audit function which involves not only each business department being subject to audit on a regular basis but also regular reviews of other business wide processes Detailed testing by the Compliance Officer of all FSA regulated business systems and controls The use of specific software, which is designed to assist with risk management within the Group Review of reports by the external auditors on their annual audit work and specific checks carried out on behalf of Treasury Management clients The internal audit programme and system of compliance checks have both been developed using a risk-based methodology and an evaluation of process controls.
They are designed to lead to a process of continuous improvement in systems and in the application of best practice.
The board considers that the above measures constitute continuing application of the Turnbull guidance and form an important management tool in the monitoring and control of the Groups operational risks.
An important element of the overall controls remains a continuous review of the quality and effectiveness of internal financial controls of the Group.
During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to require that the Group maintains proper accounting records, so that it can rely on the financial information to make appropriate business decisions and also that the Groups assets are safeguarded.
Key elements of the systems of internal control continue to be: a regular qualitative self-assessment of the effectiveness of the individual controls maintained in the overall internal financial control framework preparation by management of a comprehensive and detailed budget system involving annual board approval and monthly comparison at board level of actual results with budgets and forecasts systematic reporting to the board of matters relating to insurance, pensions, taxation, accounting and cash management as well as legal, compliance and company secretarial issues 25 Law Debenture Corporate governance continued the review of the internal controls of those services, such as investment management, custody and registration, which have been delegated to third parties, such review being conducted during the initial contractual negotiation and on a regular basis monitoring by the board of the investment management process including the establishment and maintenance of investment guidelines, receiving a report from the investment manager at each board meeting, the review of all transactions with the investment manager and regular reconciliations of the records of the Group with those of the global custodian and investment data services provider frequent and detailed reports received about the trustee businesses, including reports and attendance of board meetings from time to time from the Managing Directors of overseas subsidiaries.
The systems of internal financial control are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
By means of the procedures set out above, the directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period.
This process has been in place throughout 2002 and will be reviewed by the board on a regular basis going forward.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and its current members are Mr K. W. B. Inglis Chairman, Mr A. C. Cates and Mr D. C. P. McDougall.
Remuneration Committee The Committee met three times during 2002 in the discharge of its duties.
In accordance with new statutory requirements, the directors remuneration report commences on the opposite page.
Nomination Committee The Committee was established in 2002 and has only recently begun to meet.
Its membership is comprised solely of non-executive, independent directors.
The Committee is monitoring closely the implications for the Corporations board of the Higgs and Smith reports and will make recommendations to the board about its composition, once those reports are published in final form.
