32 Directors report and accounts Corporate governance Subject to the comments below regarding the least twice a year, normally with the external independence of non-executive directors and the auditors present, to consider the audit plan and composition of Board committees, the Companys the interim and annual results, as well as any Board is satisfied that it has complied with the matters raised by the auditors.
It also reviews the provisions of the Combined Code Principles adequacy and effectiveness of the key systems of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice of internal control and monitors the efficiency the Combined Code during the year ended and independence of the internal audit function.
The Committee reviews the Companys financial statements and makes recommendations Board of directors regarding their approval by the Board as a whole.
The Board has six scheduled meetings a year and In order to ensure an appropriate balance meets more frequently as required.
At 31 March between cost effectiveness, objectivity and 2002, the Board comprised nine non-executive independence, the Audit Committee also directors, including the Chairman and Deputy reviews the nature of all services provided by Chairman and three executive directors.
Of the the external auditors each year.
Factors taken non-executive directors, Gary Allen, Janet Cohen, into consideration include: cost, appropriate use Oscar Fanjul, Nigel Stapleton and Robert Webb of the auditors existing business knowledge are considered to be fully independent within and their procedures for ensuring compliance the meaning of the Combined Code.
The senior with professional and regulatory requirements.
non-executive director, who is not regarded The Company normally expects to retain the as being independent, is Ian Salter.
external auditors to provide audit related services, including work in relation to shareholder and Board committees other circulars and transaction related work, Until 23 May 2001, the Board committees and certain tax and similar services.
The external concerned with the governance of the Company auditors have provided no general consulting comprised a majority of directors who were or internal audit services during the year.
involved in the Companys wider business and market community.
On 23 May 2001, The Nomination Committee is chaired by the composition of these committees was Don Cruickshank and comprises four other reviewed in order to increase the representation non-executive directors.
The Committee of independent non-executive directors, while meets as necessary to make recommendations ensuring a necessary degree of continuity, to the Board on all new Board appointments.
and these changes brought the Company Internal control closer to the requirements of the Combined The Board confirms that procedures have been Code.
At the same time, the Companys Senior in place throughout the year and up to the date Appointments and Remuneration Committee of this report which comply fully with the guidance was replaced by separate Remuneration and Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on Nomination Committees.
the Combined Code, published by the Internal Directors serving on the Boards committees Control Working Party of the Institute of are identified on pages 30 to 31.
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales The Remuneration Committee is chaired by in September 1999.
The systems of internal Nigel Stapleton and comprises three other control are designed to enable the Company to non-executive directors.
One member of the meet its business objectives and appropriately Committee is not regarded as being independent minimise risk.
The Board is committed to the and, in this respect, the Company does not continual enhancement of internal controls, comply fully with the Combined Code.
The which ultimately can provide reasonable, but Committee has written terms of reference not absolute, assurance that the risks facing and meets at least twice a year to review the business are effectively managed.
and present recommendations to the Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the regarding remuneration and conditions of service Companys systems of internal control over of the Chairman, Chief Executive and executive business, operational, financial and compliance directors, including the grant of entitlements risks.
The directors, through the Audit Committee, under the Companys share schemes.
A separate have reviewed the effectiveness of these Remuneration Report is set out at pages 34 to 35. systems, which can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Allen misstatement or loss.
and comprises four other non-executive directors.
It has written terms of reference and meets at LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 33 The principal features of the Companys Health, safety and the environment control framework are described under The Companys report on Working with the the following headings: community pages 26 and 27 summarises our corporate responsibilities towards our people, Delegation of authority There are clearly the environment and the community.
It is the defined matters which are reserved for Board Companys policy to maintain healthy and approval only.
The executive directors have safe working conditions and to operate in general responsibility for making and implementing an environmentally responsible manner, and operational decisions and overseeing the significant health, safety and environmental Companys business.
issues are escalated to senior management in Planning and reporting The Board approves accordance with the risk management process strategic decisions and the budget for the described above.
forthcoming year and receives a report on key An Environmental Policy Statement is set out business matters from the Chief Executive at on our website www.
Monthly reports to management and includes a framework for developing and contain key performance indicators and compare reviewing environmental objectives and targets.
actual financial performance with the annual budget or forecast.
Management action is taken Our Health and Safety policy has recently been where variances arise and revised forecasts are reviewed in detail and includes procedures for prepared on a regular basis.
the safe handling of toxic and environmentally damaging materials.
Compliance with the policy Audit Committee Reports from the Companys is overseen by an internal Health and Safety internal audit department on the effectiveness group.
This group, with representation from of key risk management and internal control each business area, meets on a regular basis procedures are reviewed by the Audit Committee and considers changes in legislation and related and appropriate action taken, where necessary.
There were no reportable fatalities, The Audit Committee also receives reports from injuries, illnesses or dangerous occurrences the Companys external auditors.
during the year, nor were any Health and Safety Risk management Effective risk management enforcement notices or convictions received.
is the responsibility of all line managers and Following the recent publication of guidelines each business area continuously updates and by the Association of British Insurers, the evaluates its documented key risks and controls.
Department of Environmental, Food and Periodic reports confirming the effectiveness of Rural Affairs and other interested parties, all significant control policies and procedures are the Company intends to further develop produced by management and reviewed by the its corporate responsibility statement in most senior executive in each business area.
Companys internal audit department also reviews these reports and independently summarises any significant matters arising for the Audit Committee.
Detailed procedures Procedures and controls for key business areas including the Companys finance function are set out in detailed departmental manuals.
These are reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet changing business needs.
