Statement of Corporate Governance The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to comply with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance and published in June 1998.
Since the year end, the Higgs Report on the Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors has been published and the Board will be considering its implications.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Statement describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code have been applied by the Company throughout the year to 31 December 2002.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Combined Code provisions throughout the year.
Save the limited exceptions outlined below, the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exceptions to compliance with the Combined Code, which are explained more fully under the headings of The Board and Directors remuneration, were as follows: a senior non-executive Director has not been appointed.
the Company has not complied with the twenty-one provisions relating to Executive Directors remuneration, as it is exempt from complying with those provisions under the Listing Rule 21.20 i.
The Board Until 6 November 2002, the Board consisted of five Directors all of whom during the year ended 31 December 2002 except for Sir Raymond Johnstone, were considered to be independent of the investment manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Following the resignation of The Rt Hon Viscount Younger of Leckie on 6 November 2002, the Board consists of four Directors.
It should be noted that: Sir Raymond Johnstone was, until 24 February 1992, the chairman of the former Manager, Murray Johnstone Limited, which is a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Biographies of the Directors appear on page 3 of this report and indicate their high level and range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these meetings maintains contact with the Manager.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters will include: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies.
the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from comparable investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
28 Murray International Trust PLC Statement of Corporate Governance continued When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as all the Directors are non-executive and the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including the Managers Review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies certain services, including to the Manager: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and Company Secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees The Chairman of the Company is the Chairman of all the Committees.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee makes recommendations and considers the appointment of new Directors and comprises the full Board.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprising the full Board, most of whom are independent and free of any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
This committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company and receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
The Committee is responsible for review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the interim report, terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors, revewing the scope and the results of the audit and the objectivity of the Auditors.
It should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The Audit Committee also meets with representatives of the Manager.
Management Engagement Committee The full Board comprises the Management Engagement Committee and annually reviews matters concerning the management contract.
Following the 2002 review, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited was appointed as Manager.
Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association also require that Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who attains the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Directors remuneration Under the UK Listing Authority Listing Rule 21.20 i where an investment trust has only non-executive Directors the code principles relating to Directors remuneration do not apply.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The remuneration of each Director is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 27.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray International Trust are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee operators will be provided with copies of shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Participants in the Savings Plans, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the scheme or plan administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the appropriate scheme, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
The Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting as required under Code Provision C2.4.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 22 to 25.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event in which private Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The amount of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free shareholder information telephone service run by the parent Company of the Manager, and the Company or the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is on page 32 and the Statement of Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page 25.
The Independent Auditors Report is on pages 33 and 34.
30 Murray International Trust PLC Statement of Corporate Governance continued Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray International Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the particular risks to which the Company is exposed and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following publication, in September 1999, of guidance for Directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, that has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Company to the Manager and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function, which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the Turnbull guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the annual audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Internal Audit Committee of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Companys Audit Committee agenda includes an item for the consideration of risk and control and receives reports thereon from the Audit Committee of the Manager.
Exercise of voting powers The Company has operated a corporate governance voting policy which, in summary, is based on the governance recommendations of the Combined Code with the intention of voting in accordance with best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
In the case of the Companys investments, the Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The Manager votes against resolutions that are considered might damage Shareholders rights or economic interests.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited gives due weight to what it considers to be socially responsible investment when making investment decisions, but the overriding objective is to produce good investment returns for Shareholders.
