Corporate Governance Statement Cairn is committed to high standards of corporate review and report to the Board on matters related to governance.
The directors are accountable to the published financial statements and systems of shareholders for good governance and, in accordance internal financial control.
In addition to the audit with the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing committee there is a risk management committee, Authority the Listing Rules, this statement describes which is chaired by an independent non-executive how the principles of good governance set out in director, and also reports to the Board.
Section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules were applied by the Old Cairn Group The members of the remuneration committee are throughout the financial year and how they are Hamish Grossart Chairman, Norman Murray and intended to be applied by the Group.
The remuneration committee meets two to three times a year and determines the remuneration of The Board the executive directors and senior employees.
Details The Board currently comprises the Chief Executive, of the Companys policies on remuneration, service three other executive directors and three independent contracts and compensation payments are given in the non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
directors remuneration report on pages 23 to 31.
The directors biographies are on page 15.
The Board The remuneration committee is also responsible for demonstrates a range of business, financial and administering Cairns share option schemes and technical experience, which is vital to the successful long term incentive plan.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman, is Cairns senior independent non-executive The members of the nomination committee are Norman director.
Murray Chairman, Hamish Grossart, Ed Story and Bill Gammell.
The nomination committee meets at least The Board maintains overall control over financial, once a year to consider the composition of the Board strategic, budgetary and organisational issues.
and makes recommendations to the Board in this All directors are equally accountable for the proper connection and on the appointment of new directors.
stewardship of the Groups affairs.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, the strategies proposed by the executive directors are all directors are subject to re-election at least every fully discussed and critically examined.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, it has full Relations with Shareholders and timely access to all relevant information and a Communications with shareholders are given high formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it priority.
Cairn sends both its annual report and for decision which is updated regularly.
There is also accounts and interim report and accounts to all a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual furtherance of their duties, to take independent institutional shareholders, including meetings after the professional advice if necessary, at the Groups announcement of year end and interim results.
The Chairman attends a number of these meetings.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from Routine meetings of the Board take place shareholders and also has a website which contains a approximately nine times a year, with additional range of information, including a dedicated investor meetings when required.
In addition, the Board is relations section.
in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private Board Committees and institutional investors and welcomes their The Board has established an audit committee, a participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the remuneration committee and a nomination committee, chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination each of which has formal terms of reference approved committees are available at AGMs to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 7 May 2003 can be found in the notice of AGM on The members of the audit committee are Norman pages 74 to 78.
The Company arranges for the notice of Murray Chairman, Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
AGM and related documents to be sent to shareholders The audit committee meets at least twice a year to a minimum of 20 working days before the meeting.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 17 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Responsibility Statement risk.
The Groups current operations are concentrated Under the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the in South Asia where there are particular cultural directors are required to prepare financial statements and political differences in conducting business.
for each financial period which give a true and fair view The directors believe that Cairn derives a competitive of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of edge through its knowledge by focusing activities in the financial period, and of the profit or loss of the this core area.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors Cairn adopts internal controls appropriate to its consider that applicable accounting standards have entrepreneurial culture.
An ongoing process has been been followed, appropriate accounting policies have established for identifying, evaluating and managing the been used and applied consistently and reasonable significant risks faced by the Group and is in and prudent judgements and estimates have been accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull made.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring Committee on internal control.
that accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the The Cairn Business Risk Management Process Company, and which enable them to ensure that the BRMP incorporates the method by which Cairn financial statements comply with the Act.
The directors manages its Group risk profile and is being fully have general responsibility for taking such steps as are embedded on an ongoing basis throughout the Group.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the The process has been in place in respect of the Old Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other Cairn Group for the 2002 accounting period and up to irregularities.
the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The directors are not, in their capacity as directors of The Board has carried out regular reviews of the the Company, required to prepare financial statements effectiveness of the Old Cairn Groups system of for the Old Cairn Group in respect of the financial internal controls during 2002, and will ensure that period, as the Company was not part of the Old Cairn further such reviews are performed on a regular basis.
However, as previously The Board is satisfied that effective controls are in explained, this document contains extracted financial place and that risks have been mitigated to an information in respect of the Old Cairn Group.
The key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board Going Concern to review the effectiveness of the system include the The directors have considered the factors relevant to following:- support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in 1.
Strategic Direction operational existence for the forseeable future and have Group strategy is determined by the Board and its therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the implementation delegated to the Group Management financial statements.
Operating Management The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the The remit of the GMB is to formulate and execute Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its business plans in alignment with Group strategy and effectiveness.
The Groups system of internal control is with appropriate internal controls.
In addition, the Indian designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Management Board IMB continues to manage the failure to achieve business objectives, and can only Groups day-to-day business in India, with a reporting provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against link to the GMB.
Risk Management As an oil and gas exploration and production company, The Board has approved the BRMP which has been Cairn is, by virtue of the nature of its business and the implemented throughout the Group and on which the countries in which it operates, subject to significant Board regularly receives progress updates.
The GMB CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 and IMB have each played an integral role in Cairn has a material interest in its non-operated joint embedding the BRMP across the organisation.
The risk venture in Bangladesh operated by Shell Bangladesh management committee established by the Board in and has audit rights to verify the effectiveness of 1999 continues to have responsibility for co-ordinating controls for this joint venture.
the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and reporting progress to the Board on managing the 4.
The risk management committee is The directors derive assurance from the following chaired by an independent non-executive director.
internal and external controls: An ongoing programme of interactive departmental risk a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically workshops have ensured that risks are regularly reserved for a decision of the Board: updated, managed and reported through the Group policies and procedures for key business activities: Risk Register the GRR.
Both a top-down and an appropriate organisational structure: bottom-up approach have been adopted in developing control over non-operated joint venture activities the BRMP and it is recognised throughout the through delegated Cairn representatives: organisation that the process is iterative, requiring specific delegations of authority for all financial and ongoing monitoring and improvement.
other transactions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost At an operating level, each department and location effective: has a specific section within the GRR which identifies business and financial reporting for operations: and rates risks in terms of significance and likelihood of reports from the audit committee and risk occurrence, the controls and procedures in place in management committee: respect of each risk, and the actions being taken, audits by governments and co-venturers: where appropriate, to manage risks to the desired level.
independent third party reviews commissioned by Business risk status reports are produced by each Cairn: department and location on a regular basis.
external audits: internal audits to assess compliance - an internal The GRR identifies the key risks facing Cairn across auditor continues to play a significant role in the risk all areas of its business under key business activities.
The Board reviews the remit, The Board have reviewed the key risks within each key authority, resources and scope of work of the internal business activity, agreed risk management solutions auditor on an annual basis.
and taken necessary actions where appropriate.
In addition, the Board commissioned internal reviews Compliance With Combined Code of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the The Board considers that the Old Cairn Group was in key risks.
These reviews take the form of an assurance full compliance with all the provisions of Section 1 of model for each key risk wherein operating, monitoring the Combined Code throughout the financial year.
and executive controls are identified together with key performance indicators and independent assurers.
In addition, country managers have submitted annual assurance letters to the Board on the effectiveness of internal controls for their operations for 2002.
The Board also receives reports on any major risk issues that have occurred during the year and how risks have changed over the period under review.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are appropriate.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 19
