Corporate Governance Northern Rock regards adherence to September 2002.
The Board now since the listing of the Company on the principles of good corporate comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, The London Stock Exchange in governance to be of the utmost a Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, a October 1997: importance.
The Board is accountable Chief Executive, two other Executive iii represent significant shareholders to Northern Rock's shareholders for Directors and five other Non-Executive or other single interest groups: corporate governance, and the Directors.
The Board is responsible for iv receive an income from Northern following describes how Northern agreeing the strategy and policies of Rock other than interest on savings Rock applies the principles and Northern Rock, for monitoring its accounts, dividends on shareholdings provisions contained in the Combined performance and has a formal or his or her Director's fee: Code of Corporate Governance the schedule of matters reserved for its v participate in Northern Rock's Combined Code published in June review and approval.
Dr M W Ridley is share option or performance related 1998.
The Listing Rules of the United the Senior Independent Director.
remuneration schemes: Kingdom Listing Authority require It is the Company's policy that every vi have conflicting directorships.
listed companies to disclose how they Director should receive appropriate Cross directorships per se are not comply with the Combined Code.
training on the first occasion that he regarded as affecting a Director's For the period 1 January 2002 to or she is appointed to the Board, and independence: or 31 December 2002 the Group subsequently as necessary.
vii have any other significant, complied with all aspects of the financial or personal tie to Northern To enable the Board to function Combined Code.
Rock or its management which could effectively, all Directors have full and interfere with the Director's proper The results of the Review of the timely access to all information which exercise of his or her duties including role and effectiveness of nonmay be relevant to the discharge of taking into account the interests of executive directors commissioned their duties and obligations.
The Northern Rock's shareholders, by H M Government, undertaken by Chairman ensures that all Directors are employees and creditors.
Derek Higgs, were published in properly briefed on issues arising at January 2003 the Higgs Review.
Board meetings and Directors are able Northern Rock's policy is that NonThe recommendations contained to make further enquiries as Executive Directors will stand down within the Higgs Review are expected appropriate both from within the Group from office at the conclusion of the to be consolidated into a new and from external professional sources.
next Annual General Meeting Combined Code and it is anticipated following their seventieth birthday.
The Non-Executive Directors have that listed companies will be required experience in a wide range of to report on their compliance with Authority for the execution of commercial and banking activities and this new Code for reporting years approved policies is delegated to the each of them is considered by the Board starting on or after 1 July 2003.
Chief Executive and the Management to be independent of management and Board which comprises the Chief The Company is reviewing its free from any business or other Executive, the other Executive compliance arrangements although it relationship which could materially Directors, the Company Secretary and is confident that it already complies interfere with the exercise of their five other senior executives.
with many of the recommendations independent judgement.
More than set out in the Higgs Review.
Where the All Directors have access to the advice one half of the Board comprises Company does not comply with the and services of the Company Secretary Non-Executive Directors.
recommendations it will give reasons who is responsible for ensuring that for non-compliance.
To be independent, Northern Rock Board procedures and applicable rules considers that, a Non-Executive and regulations are observed.
The Board of Directors Director should not: Directors are able, if necessary, to take The Board of Directors meets regularly independent professional advice at i be or have been an employee of throughout the year and retains full Northern Rock's expense.
Northern Rock: and effective control over the Group.
Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the ii have been a Director of Northern Board as a Non-Executive Director in Rock plc for more than nine years 13 Corporate Governance continued Appointments to the Board aligned to the significant risks - to consider the risks of new ventures and other strategic initiatives: identified by the business and also Northern Rock's Articles of Association has direct access to the Committee - to review the Group's credit risk, require that each Director stands for and its Chairman.
The Executive interest rate risk, liquidity risk and re-election at least every three years Directors are not members of the operational risk exposures in relation and that Directors appointed by the Committee but attend meetings of to the Board's risk appetite and the Board should be subject to election the Committee as necessary to Group's capital adequacy: by shareholders at the first facilitate its business.
- to consider the development of opportunity after their appointment.
Group risk management and make The Directors to retire by rotation will Risk Committee appropriate recommendations to the be those in office longest since their The committee comprises six Board and: previous re-election.
independent Non - Executive Directors - to consider whether the public and the Executive Directors.
The main Board Committees disclosure of information regarding role of the Risk Committee is to In accordance with the Combined the Group's risk management review, on behalf of the Board, the key Code and the best principles of policies and key risk exposures is in risks inherent in the business and the corporate governance, the Board has accordance with the statutory system of control necessary to established a number of committees requirements and financial reporting manage such risks, and to present which operate within defined terms of standards.
their findings to the Board.
reference as set out below.
The The director of Risk reports on and The Risk Committee meets on at least Chairman and membership of each monitors risks throughout the Group.
Its remit is: committee are set out on page 16.
He reports to the Group Finance - to advise the Board on risk Director and in addition reports to Audit Committee management and to foster a culture the Chief Executive and the Chairman within the Group that emphasises and The Committee comprises six of the Risk Committee and attends demonstrates the benefits of a riskindependent Non-Executive Directors both the Risk Committee and the based approach to internal control and meets at least four times each Audit Committee.
and management of the Group: year.
It considers and where - to reinforce management's control appropriate advises the Board on all Chairman's Committee consciousness and make appropriate matters relating to regulatory, The principal function of the recommendations to the Board on all prudential and accounting Committee is to review the Group's significant matters relating to the requirements that may affect the strategy and to consider any major Group's risk strategy and policies: Group, and reports to the Board on operational issues or proposals for - to keep under review the both financial and non-financial significant new initiatives which effectiveness of the Group's risk controls.
An important aspect of its may arise.
This role is to ensure that an objective and includes an assessment of risk professional relationship is Nominations Committee management procedures for the maintained with the external auditors.
The Committee comprises two identification, measurement and The Committee reviews the scope and independent Non-Executive Directors control of key risk exposures in results of the annual audit and its cost and the Chief Executive.
It monitors accordance with changes in the effectiveness and the independence and reviews the membership of, and operating environment: and objectivity of the external succession to, the Board of Directors.
It also reviews the nature and - where appropriate, to consider Risk The Committee considers and makes Audit reports on the key business extent of any non - audit services recommendations to the Board, inter provided by the external auditors.
areas to assess the level of business alia, on the identification and risk exposure: The external auditors may attend all recruitment of potential Executive and meetings and have direct access to - to consider the major findings of any Non-Executive Directors, taking into the Committee and its Chairman at all of the Financial Services Authority and account the requirement for the times.
The Chief Internal Auditor internal external audit's risk provides further assurance that the members of the Board to have an management reviews and internal audit coverage is closely management's response: appropriate range of skills and 14 Corporate Governance continued experience to understand the Combined Code' the Turnbull A detailed description of the Group's activities of Northern Rock and its guidance, the Board confirms that approach to financial risk management there is an ongoing process for subsidiary undertakings.
and the related use of derivatives is set identifying, evaluating and managing out in note 35 to the accounts.
Remuneration Committee the significant risks faced by the Material risk exposures are subject to This Committee of independent NonGroup, that has been in place for the Executive Directors is responsible for policy statements that set out the period 1 January 2002 to 31 considering and advising the Board on exposure limits of the risks and the December 2002 and up to the date of the remuneration policy for Executive hedges and control techniques to be approval of the Annual Report and Directors.
It determines on behalf of Accounts, and that this process is utilised.
In addition, regular reporting the Board the salary levels of Executive regularly reviewed by the Board and of all risk exposures is enforced Directors and takes professional advice accords with the guidance.
from both inside and outside the Group.
It is the Boards responsibility to The Board has reviewed the The Risk Committee, comprising of determine the remuneration policy for effectiveness of the system of internal independent Non-Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In particular, it has reviewed Executive Directors oversees risk and where necessary updated the management and ensures that Internal control process for identifying and evaluating appropriate controls are in place.
The Board of Directors is responsible the significant risks affecting the business Details are set out above.
for the Group's system of internal and the policies and procedures by control and for reviewing its The Group is committed to which these risks are managed.
The system of internal developing and maintaining a controlcontrol is designed to ensure effective Management are responsible for the conscious culture in all areas.
This is and efficient operations and identification and evaluation of achieved through a well-defined compliance with laws and regulations.
significant risks applicable to their organisational structure with clear In establishing this system, the areas of business together with the reporting lines, and a commitment to Directors consider the nature of the design and operation of suitable recruiting and training quality staff Group's business, including the governed by appropriate codes of internal controls.
These risks are materiality of the risks being run, the conduct.
In addition, the Group assessed on a continual basis and likelihood of a loss being incurred and maintains procedures manuals that may be associated with a variety of the costs of control and of mitigation detail the procedures to control internal or external sources including of likely losses.
It follows, therefore, physical and logical access, segregation control breakdowns, disruption in that the system of internal control can of duties and credit, expenditure and information systems, competition, only provide reasonable, and not other authorisation limits.
There are natural catastrophe and regulatory absolute, assurance: well-established budgetary and requirements.
- as to the reliability and integrity of strategic planning cycles, and the management information: Internal audit provide a degree of Board reviews the results monthly assurance as to the operation and against budgets, forecasts and prior - that assets are safeguarded: and validity of the system of internal year actual results, together with other - that fraud and other irregularities are control.
Planned corrective actions key business measures.
are independently monitored for The Combined Code requires that the The Group has adopted a Code of timely completion.
Directors review the effectiveness of Conduct which provides practical the Group's system of internal We are a well-controlled, risk averse guidance for all staff on our business controls, which includes financial, business which continues to adopt a values and which forms a key element operational, compliance and risk prudent stance in the management of in the way we do business.
risk faced by the business and which also supporting policies and In accordance with 'Internal Control: uses appropriate hedging techniques employee procedures regarding Guidance for Directors on the to enhance business performance.
15 Corporate Governance continued The Chief Executive also reports to the and a copy of the annual report and responsible for safeguarding the Board on behalf of the Management accounts is available by written assets of the Group and hence for request to the Company Secretary or Board on significant changes in the taking reasonable steps to prevent business and the external from the Northern Rock website: and detect fraud and other www.
co. uk environment, which affect significant irregularities.
The Board also receives monthly The Company communicates Committees financial information, which includes regularly with its shareholders who Membership of the Board's key performance and risk indicators.
are given the opportunity to raise Committees is set out below.
Where areas for improvement in the matters for discussion at the Annual system are identified, the Board Audit Committee General Meeting.
The Company also considers the recommendations made deals with a number of written Dr M W Ridley Chairman by the Management Board, the Risk enquiries from shareholders Sir David Chapman, Bt.
Committee and the Audit Committee.
Sir Ian Gibson N Pease The effectiveness of the internal Going concern Sir George Russell control system is reviewed by the The Directors are satisfied that the D Wanless Audit Committee on behalf of the Company and the Group have Board.
Additionally, the Audit Chairman's Committee adequate resources to continue in Committee at each meeting receives business for the foreseeable future.
Chairman reports of reviews conducted For this reason, they continue to Dr M W Ridley throughout the Group by internal adopt the going concern basis in A J Applegarth audit and periodically Group preparing the accounts.
D F Baker compliance functions together with R F Bennett reports from the external auditors Statement of Directors' C Taylor which detail any significant control responsibilities matters of which they are aware.
It is Nominations Committee The Companies Act 1985 requires the responsible for ensuring that Sir John Riddell, Bt.
Chairman Directors to prepare financial appropriate corrective action is taken statements for each financial year that Dr M W Ridley where necessary.
A J Applegarth give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group The Committee also monitors the Remuneration Committee as at the end of the year and of the Group's compliance with the Sir George Russell Chairman profit or loss of the Group for the year.
Principles for Business, published by Sir David Chapman, Bt.
The Financial Services Authority, The Directors consider that in Sir Ian Gibson comprising a statement of the preparing the financial statements on N Pease fundamental obligations of firms pages 44 to 74 appropriate Dr M W Ridley under the regulatory system.
accounting policies, consistently D Wanless applied and supported by reasonable These mechanisms are intended to Risk Committee and prudent judgements and ensure that Group performance is Dr M W Ridley Chairman estimates, have been used and that continually monitored, risks identified Sir David Chapman, Bt.
applicable accounting standards have in a timely manner, their financial Sir Ian Gibson been followed.
implications assessed, control N Pease The Directors are responsible for procedures re-evaluated and corrective Sir George Russell ensuring that the Group keeps actions agreed and implemented.
D Wanless accounting records that disclose with A J Applegarth Communications reasonable accuracy at any time the D F Baker The Company regards Group's financial position and that R F Bennett enable them to ensure that the communications with shareholders as Non-Executive Director very important.
A summary financial financial statements comply with the Executive Director statement is issued to all shareholders Companies Act 1985.
They are also Executive The maintenance and integrity of the Northern Rock plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
