36 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Corporate Governance The Combined Code Although all Directors are equally accountable legally, the Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate that the actions proposed by the Executive Directors are critically governance and is accountable to shareholders for the good examined and thoroughly discussed.
The Non-Executive Directors governance of the affairs of the Group.
In accordance with Section 1 therefore fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability.
The Board of the Combined Code of Best Practice the Combined Code considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent published by the Hampel Committee and approved by the UK Listing of management and free from any business or other relationship Authority the Board must report to shareholders: which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent how the principles of good governance set out in the Combined judgement.
The Board is mindful that the length of time that Code are applied: and P B Garland and Sir Aaron Klug have served on the Board may cause some commentators to question their independence.
that the Group complies with the best practice provisions The Board however is firmly of the view that both these Directors set out in the Combined Code, or where it does not, provide are able to add considerable value as Non-Executive Directors an explanation.
because of their standing in the business and scientific communities The Board of Directors and because of their track record of service with the Company and therefore does not believe that their independence is compromised The Board of Directors currently consists of four Executive by their length of service on the Board.
Directors and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their biographies are set out on pages 26 and 27.
The Board meets P A Nicholson is the senior Independent Non-Executive Director formally six times a year and there is frequent contact between other than the Chairman, to whom any relevant concerns may meetings as is required to further the Groups business.
duties are to inter alia : The remits and members of all Board Committees are set determine and monitor group strategy business, commercial out below.
and scientific and its implementation: The Audit Committee maintain and review a sound system of internal control to The Audit Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets: currently J L Foght Chairman, U Bicker and P A Nicholson.
consider and approve annual, interim and quarterly financial The Committee meets as appropriate but not less than four times statements, including the associated review of the position and a year to: prospects of the Group: monitor and make recommendations on the relationship with the approve and monitor progress against annual budgets and external auditors including the nature and scope of the audit and working capital forecasts: and any matters arising: consider and approve major projects or other commitments review the Annual Report, the Interim Report and quarterly of resources and any substantial transactions.
financial statements before submission to the Board, including consideration of the accounting policies adopted and any significant The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are areas of judgement and to recommend to the Board whether respectively to run the Board and to take executive responsibility audited financial statements should be included in the Companys for running the Groups business.
Accordingly these offices statutory reports and Annual Report filed with the Securities are separate.
Exchange Commission on Form 20-F: All Directors bring independent judgement to bear on matters monitor compliance with statutory, Financial Services of strategy, resources and appropriate training is made available to Authority and Securities Exchange Commission requirements for Directors to assist them in the discharge of their duties as required.
financial reporting: To enable them to fulfil their duties all Directors receive detailed monthly reports on the current and prospective activities of the review disclosures made by the Companys principal executive Group and have full and timely access to any other relevant officer or officers and principal financial officer or officers regarding information they may require.
compliance with their certification obligations as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder, All Directors also have direct access to the services and advice including the Companys disclosure controls and procedures and of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that internal controls for financial reporting: relevant procedures, rules and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is monitor the system of internal control maintained by the Group determined by the Board as a whole.
Non-Executive Directors to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
may, at the Groups expense, seek independent legal advice on any matter relating to the discharge of their duties.
37 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Provision is made for the Committee to meet at least once a Business strategy year with the external auditors in the absence of the Groups The Groups strategy is to use its propriety technology for drug executive management.
discovery and drug development, exploiting the characteristics of The Audit Committee gives periodic consideration to the antibodies both to discover and validate new disease targets and to establishment of an internal audit function.
Given the nature and engineer human monoclonal antibodies as treatments for scale of the activities of the Group, such a function is not currently human diseases.
The Groups own development activity focuses on the value adding The Remuneration Committee stages from target identification through to clinical demonstration of efficacy for an antibody-based drug.
In general, the Group will seek The Remuneration Committee consists of three Non-Executive partners for further clinical trials of product candidates, in gaining Directors, currently P A Nicholson Chairman, J L Foght and marketing approval of product candidates and for subsequent U Bicker.
Under the terms of reference of the Committee however, marketing of products.
any Non-Executive Director is entitled to attend any meeting of the Committee.
The Committee meets when required as determined Internal control by its members to: The Board of Directors is responsible for identifying, evaluating and make recommendations to the Board on the framework of managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board is executive remuneration of the Groups executive remuneration in also responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains a sound accordance with current best practice: system of internal controls to address those risks and, therefore, to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
determine the remuneration of the Groups Executive Directors on behalf of the Board: The Board has established a formal and continuous process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group maintain an overview of the policy in relation to the remuneration and the identification and evaluation of risk is an integral part of and conditions of service of other senior staff: and the Boards planning process.
The Board regularly reviews the determine policy and practice in relation to equity participation effectiveness of the process of risk identification and evaluation.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole.
No director votes on his own The Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups remuneration.
The Committee submits an annual report to the system of internal controls to manage risk.
Monitoring internal Board which in turn reports to the shareholders.
The Remuneration controls includes scrutiny of reports prepared by management and Report is included on pages 32 to 35 and includes further in-depth review and follow up of any weakness identified.
As part explanation as to how relevant principles of the Combined Code of this process the Audit Committee considers and reports to the are applied and the extent to which relevant principles are Board on any matters arising from the work undertaken by the complied with.
external auditors and undertakes a periodic review to consider the need to establish an internal audit function.
Additionally, the Audit The Nominations Committee Committee is assisted by the Business Risk Management Group The Nominations Committee assesses candidates of suitable which as a delegated committee of executive management knowledge, experience and calibre for consideration by the Board reporting directly to the Audit Committee, has responsibility for as potential Directors of the Company.
However, candidates are identifying risks faced by the Group, making an assessment of how considered by the full Board before appointment.
The Committee those risks are managed, highlighting any weaknesses in existing consists of P B Garland Chairman, P A Chambr, J C Aston and controls and making recommendations for improvements in the P A Nicholson although any Director is entitled to attend meetings.
management of risk where applicable.
The Scientific Advisory Board The Board has undertaken a specific annual review to evaluate the effectiveness of the process of identifying and evaluating the The role of the Scientific Advisory Board is to assist the Group effectiveness of internal controls to support a statement of with the assessment of its existing and potential technologies compliance.
The review covered all controls including financial, and research and development programmes and to provide operational and risk management.
scientific advice to the executive management and the Board.
The composition of the Scientific Advisory Board, which There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control.
includes two Non-Executive Directors, is given on page 28.
Internal controls can only manage and not eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve business objectives or of other losses.
The Executive Group Internal controls can therefore provide only reasonable, and Operational decision making is delegated to the Executive Group, not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
which is a committee consisting of the Executive Directors and the Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk senior executives whose biographies appear on page 28. management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
38 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Corporate Governance Key features of the internal control system that operated throughout Shareholders may now register for this if they so wish and will the period covered by the financial statement are as follows: be provided with the opportunity to cast proxy votes in respect of the forthcoming AGM.
A description of how to register will be sent Composition of the Board and of senior management is aimed out with the Notice of AGM.
at providing an appropriate range of knowledge, skill and experience in scientific, medical and commercial matters.
The Group has Statement of compliance developed and continues to adapt and improve its organisational Having considered the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board structure which includes clearly established responsibilities and lines believes that the Companys practices for the year complied with of accountability.
The management of the Group actively promotes the best practice provisions of the Combined Code, with the the values of integrity and professionalism and the maintenance of exception that the Nominations Committee was not constituted of high ethical standards.
Key risk areas are reviewed regularly by a majority of Non-Executive Directors as required under A.
5.1 of executive management and the Board.
Because all appointments to the Board are The Group prepares detailed operating plans, budgets and considered by the Board as a whole, the Directors do not believe working capital projections annually based on an evaluation of the this to be material.
Groups long term objectives and the strategic imperatives which Compliance with the BioIndustry Association BIA have been established.
Detailed reports covering all areas of Code of Best Practice operations are prepared monthly which include an analysis of variances to plan.
The Board monitors the activities of the Group The BIA, of which CAT is a member, adopted a code of best at a strategic level through reports on current activities and plans.
practice on 20 October 1999 the BIA Code.
The BIA Code Executive management regularly monitors financial and operational includes principles and provisions relating to corporate performance in detail and takes any necessary corrective action.
governance matters, access to external advice, confidentiality, dealings in a companys shares and standards of public Detailed policies and procedures have been established covering announcements.
It is intended to operate by reference to the all significant areas.
They feature documented approval subject to particular circumstances of bioscience companies in support limits of authority.
Any major expenditure or commitment of of the Combined Code, Principles of Good Governance and resources must be approved by the Board.
Certain areas of the Code of Best Practice the Turnbull Report.
Throughout the Groups activities are subject to regulations, particularly those financial year the Company has complied with the relevant relating to pre-clinical and clinical development and testing.
provisions of the BIA Code.
As compliance with such regulations is critical to the Groups success, specific resources are devoted to ensuring such regulations Statement of Directors responsibilities are complied with and to dealing with any matters arising from Financial statements including adoption of going regulatory examinations.
concern basis Company Law requires the Directors to prepare The Groups liquid resources are managed on a discretionary basis financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair by a third party.
Funds are placed with a variety of deposit-taking view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of institutions and invested in money market instruments.
The third the profit and loss of the Company.
party operates within strict limits set by the Board as to maturity, After having made relevant enquiries, the Directors have a credit ratings and credit exposure to any single institution.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have Further detail is given in note 16 of the financial statements.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Audit Committee reviews the operation and effectiveness foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going of this framework on a regular basis.
concern basis in preparing financial statements.
Communication with shareholders In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with select suitable accounting policies and then apply them shareholders.
The Annual Report and half yearly Interim Report are consistently: sent to all shareholders and all press releases are published on the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Companys website.
The Company works regularly with institutional and shareholders and there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman at the AGM.
In addition the Company has state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, established a website www.
com to provide subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the additional background information and access to news releases financial statements.
Other matters The Directors are responsible for keeping proper At the last AGM, a resolution was approved to amend the accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Companys Articles of Association to enable shareholders to time the financial position of the Company and the Group and cast proxy votes and receive shareholder notification such as enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Notices of General Meetings and the Annual Report and Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of Accounts electronically via the internet if they elect to do so.
internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
