1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 19 report of the board to statement of directors the shareholders responsibilities in relation on directors remuneration to financial statements Directors contracts The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a All executive directors hold one year rolling contracts and the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Remuneration Committee reviews the terms of these regularly.
the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit None of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General or loss for the financial year.
Meeting has a service contract with the Company.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements Non-executive directors on pages 26 to 56, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all and their remuneration is determined by the Board, subject to accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have the Articles of Association.
The fee paid to each non-executive been followed.
The chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee receive an additional The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company 2,500 per annum.
keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply any of the Companys share option schemes or to join the with the Companies Act 1985. pension scheme.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the The Committee has minuted a decision that the shareholders Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
in Annual General Meeting need not be invited to approve other aspects of the remuneration policy set out in this report.
The Chairman of the Committee will, however, be available to answer questions on remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting.
The information on directors remuneration and share options contained in notes 4 and 21 forms part of this report.
By order of the Board John G Gemmell Company Secretary 16 December 2002 19 the paragon group of companies plc
