1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 21 corporate governance The Combined Code, which sets out Principles of Good All directors are able to take independent professional advice in Corporate Governance and Code provisions, was issued by the the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered London Stock Exchange in June 1998.
Throughout the year the appropriate to do so.
Group has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out The Board also operates through a number of committees in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
covering certain specific matters, these being: A statement on how the Company has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and a statement explaining the The Remuneration Committee, consisting of David Hoare, who extent to which the provisions in the Code relevant to chairs the committee, Gavin Lickley and Christopher Newell.
companies have been complied with appear below.
The Audit Committee, consisting of all the non-executive Directors directors and chaired by Professor Andrew Chambers.
The committee meets at least three times per year.
It oversees the The Board of Directors comprises three executive and five nonmonitoring of the adequacy of the Groups internal controls, executive directors, all of whom bring to the Company a broad accounting policies and financial reporting, monitors the and valuable range of experience.
Jonathan Perry has been adequacy of the Groups audit arrangements and the Executive Chairman since February 1992 and Nigel Terrington relationship between the Company and the auditors and Chief Executive since June 1995.
In accordance with the Code, provides a forum through which the Groups external and all directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of the executive There is a clear division of executive responsibilities at the head directors and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
of the Company and strong non-executive representation on It meets regularly and monitors Group interest rate risks, the Board, including David Hoare who has been nominated as currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board meets regularly throughout The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of the year and is responsible for overall Group strategy, for functions and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
approving major agreements, transactions and other financing It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on The Nomination Committee, consisting of Jonathan Perry, financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and who chairs the committee, and two non-executive directors.
there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by The committee is convened as required to nominate the Board.
candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate All of the non-executive directors are independent of responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They fulfil a All Board committees operate within defined terms of reference.
vital role in helping the executive to develop the Company, are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
21 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 22 corporate governance Directors remuneration The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 19.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of executive directors and members of senior management prior to An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly performance bonuses and share options for the Boards reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended determination.
30 September 2002 and to the date of these financial statements.
The Board confirm that they have reviewed the The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for Remuneration is on pages 18 and 19. this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Relations with shareholders Combined Code.
The Board encourages communication with the Companys The directors are responsible for the system of internal control institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the which the directors and committee chairmen are available for risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities and misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against to answer their questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is relationship between the cost and benefits from particular available for inspection.
The Board is of the view that the aspects of the control system.
availability of the results of proxies lodged satisfies the requirement within the Combined Code for an indication of the The system of internal control includes documented procedures level of proxies lodged and the balance for and against each covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel resolution.
matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular during the course of the year and the Companys web site at meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and www.
co. uk provides access to information on senior management.
the Company and its businesses.
Accountability and audit Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with the Directors Report on pages 14 to 17 to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
22 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 23 corporate governance The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board meets regularly with the heads of functions to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Compliance Statement The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2002 the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
23 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 24 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 25 the accounts
