Corporate governance report 1 Introduction This section explains how the company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, being the principles of good governance and code of best practice prepared by the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance, appended to, but not forming part of, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
2 Directors 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and three non-executive directors: the Chairman was previously executive but became non-executive with effect from 1 May 2002.
Each of the non-executive directors is independent for the purposes of the Combined Code namely, independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent judgement.
The composition of the board is thus considered to be well-balanced.
2.2 The board meets seven times a year, including an annual planning conference.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings where necessary to progress the companys business.
A pack of board papers including a detailed agenda is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so that he or she has sufficient time to review them.
A detailed paper is provided on any issue where the board is to be asked to make a decision.
All directors are therefore able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
2.3 All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
In addition, there is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice at the companys expense in the performance of his or her duties.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
2.4 Under the companys articles of association, one third of the directors are obliged to retire each year and each director must offer himself for re-election every three years.
A director who is initially appointed by the board is subject to election at the annual general meeting following his or her appointment.
In 2002, biographical details of the directors submitted for election and re-election at the annual general meeting were supplied to shareholders in the relevant circular dated 22 March 2002.
2.5 Non-executive directors are appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
Their initial three years may be extended for one further three year period and, in exceptional cases, for a further three year period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
2.6 Training for directors is reviewed annually.
Where a new director is appointed, full consideration is given to training needs including training on social, environmental and ethical matters and an appropriate individual induction programme is arranged.
2.7 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated.
The non-executive Deputy Chairman is the senior director other than the Chairman to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The executive directors are responsible for the day-to-day running of the group but the board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of budgets, financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 11 December 2002.
3 Board committees 3.1 The board has appointed five committees.
All committees have written terms of reference which are reviewed on an annual basis.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2002 this committee consisted of Charles Gregson and Angela Heylin under the chairmanship of John Maxwell.
2 It meets three times a year and forms an important part of the groups control framework.
It keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls, accounting policies and financial reporting.
It also keeps under review and establishes policies in relation to non-audit services provided to the company by its auditors, seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
Meetings are attended by both the internal and external auditors as required and by the Finance Director.
At least once a year the members of the committee meet with the external auditors without an executive director being present.
The internal audit function reports to the audit committee.
This guarantees the functions independence from group management and ensures that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2002 this committee consisted of John Harnett, Chris Johnstone and David Swann under the chairmanship of Robin Ashton.
2 It meets as required and deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2002 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Charles Gregson, Angela Heylin and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of John van Kuffeler.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2002|Provident Financial Corporate governance report continued 3.4.
2 Its remit is to assist the board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2002 this committee consisted of Charles Gregson and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of Angela Heylin.
2 It considers the framework of executive remuneration and makes recommendations to the board.
It also considers the specific remuneration packages and conditions of service of the executive directors, including their service agreements.
It meets at least three times a year.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2002 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Angela Heylin and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of Charles Gregson.
2 Its function is to keep under review the effectiveness of the groups system of non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management.
4 Relations with shareholders 4.1 The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
4.2 The company encourages private investors to attend the AGM.
The chairmen of all the board committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
There is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions generally and on each resolution proposed.
4.3 At the 2002 AGM details of proxy votes cast on each resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties.
4.4 At the 2002 AGM the company proposed separate resolutions on substantially separate issues and will continue to do so.
The company has in previous years generally given shareholders longer notice of the AGM than is required by law.
Last year 24 working days notice of the 2002 AGM was given: this year 25 working days notice is being given.
4.5 The company established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme to enable shareholders to take advantage of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system.
Members of this scheme receive all documents sent to shareholders and may attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
5 Accountability and audit 5.1 The board presents the companys position and prospects in as clear a way as possible, both by means of the accounts and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
These documents are posted on the companys website at www.
Announcements made by the company to the Stock Exchange are also posted on the companys website.
5.2 The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
5.3 The groups internal audit function is provided by Ernst & Young.
The audit committee formally agrees the internal audit plan once a year and reviews regular reports on the activity of the internal audit function.
5.4 The key elements of the internal control system which have been established are as follows: 5.4.
1 In December each year the board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half-year.
Actual performance against budgets is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
2 The audit committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors and reports to the board annually.
An annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal auditors.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, keeps them under review and notifies the board of changes in the status and control evaluation of risks.
It reports to the board on an annual basis.
In addition, the risk advisory group consisting of the executive directors, the director of group accounting and the company secretary formally reviews internal risk assessments from each division three times a year and directs reviews of internal controls and particular areas of risk.
It reports to the risk advisory committee.
4 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with its corporate policies and subsidiaries are obliged to certify compliance on an annual basis.
5 The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and of the group and to prevent and detect material fraud and other irregularities.
Provident Financial | Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9 Corporate governance report continued 5.4.
6 The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework of internal controls during 2002.
5.5 The audit committee recommends the appointment of auditors to the board.
It keeps under review the independence of the groups auditors  PwC.
At its December 2002 meeting it considered PwCs fees, the audit strategy for the year and a letter of independence from PwC.
5.6 In 2002 the audit committee considered a detailed schedule of non-audit work carried out by PwC at its February meeting.
This policy has now been changed so that in future the audit committee will consider a schedule of non-audit work at each meeting.
5.7 Non audit work carried out by PwC falls broadly into three categories: audit related services including work in connection with acquisitions and disposals, tax accounting and compliance: and general tax advice.
It is considered that in the case of the first two categories the auditors knowledge of the group and its affairs provides significant advantages and that it is therefore in the best interests of the group to use the auditors for this work.
However, each project is considered on a case-by-case basis.
In the case of general tax advice, there is not necessarily the same benefit in using the auditors and the company uses other advisers in addition to PwC.
Details of non-audit work carried out by PwC are shown below: 2002 2001 000 000 Due diligence on acquisitions and disposals 833 37 Tax accounting and compliance 395 243 General tax advice 295 535 Advice on credit card development 234 Other non-audit services 113 143 1,870 958 5.8 At its February 2002 meeting the audit committee had a separate session with PwC without any executive director or employee of the company or group being present.
This session is held annually at the February meeting when the groups final results are discussed and gives members of the committee the opportunity to raise any issues directly with PwC.
5.9 In the light of concerns which have been raised in relation to the independence of auditors generally, the board and the audit committee will review the companys policies in respect of non-audit work and the independence of the auditors with a view to making any appropriate changes in July 2003 or as soon after as is practicable.
Consideration will be given to the recommendations of the various reports which have been published on this topic.
6 Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts 6.1 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report on page 48, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
6.2 The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the groups profit or loss and cash flows for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 18 to 47 the group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
6.3 The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company and the group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and of the group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
6.4 This document the Annual Report and Accounts 2002 together with the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2002 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper versions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Provident Financial website is the responsibility of the directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
6.5 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
7 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The company has complied with all the provisions in Sections A, B, C and D of the Combined Code throughout 2002, with the exception of B.
It is not considered appropriate that the notice periods in the executive directors contracts should be reduced to one year for the reasons set out on page 12 in paragraph 3.10 of the directors remuneration report.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2002|Provident Financial
