Corporate Governance Report The directors support the Combined Code on Corporate non-audit services: and the value for money obtained from Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by the auditors fees for both statutory audit work and non-audit work.
Financial Services Authority the Code.
The Company The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services has complied throughout the accounting period ended being provided to the Group by its auditors and has taken account 31 December 2002 with all the Code provisions set out in of the developing requirements in the United Kingdom and the Section 1 of the Code, save for the appointment of a senior United States on the types of services that the external auditors independent director.
We have applied the principles in the may provide.
No significant changes to the Audit Committees manner described below and in the Remuneration Report.
existing policies in this area have been required.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors independence.
Organisational Structure It also receives the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and The organisational structure of the Group is clearly defined the Group Risk Committee established in January and February by reference to business units for which individual business 2003 respectively and monitors their activities.
The minutes unit chief executives are responsible.
They report to the Group of Audit Committee meetings are circulated to the Board after Chief Executive.
The Board, the members of which are set out each meeting.
on pages 28 and 29, meets regularly, usually eight times a year with a separate strategy day and additional meetings as and The external audit was last put out to competitive tender when required.
In 2002 the Board met 10 times and there were in 1999 when the present auditors were appointed.
During a further five Board Committee meetings in addition to the 2002 the Audit Committee, as part of its scrutiny of auditors regular Board Committees.
During 2002, the directors average performance, reviewed the audit fee paid to them.
The basis rate of attendance at Board meetings was 95 per cent.
The Board of the fee had been fixed for three years at the time of their determines the objectives and strategy for the Group.
The audit fee paid in 2002 reflects the increase in out the specific matters which are reserved to it for decision.
the auditors reporting responsibilities, such as the Groups US filing obligations, and the increase in the extent of the Groups Authority is delegated to the Group Chief Executive for operations since 1999.
The basis of the fee has also been set implementing the strategy and for managing the Group.
having regard to the guidance of the Smith Report that the audit In discharging his responsibility, the Group Chief Executive fee should of itself provide an appropriate return to the auditors.
is advised and assisted by a Group executive committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a Group head The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance office team of functional specialists.
Director and other members of the senior management team, together with the external auditors, are invited to attend meetings The head of each business unit, who in respect of their business of the Committee except when the Committee wishes to meet unit responsibilities reports to the Group Chief Executive, alone.
The Committee also meets solely with both external and has authority for management of that business unit and has internal auditors at least once a year.
established a management board comprising the most senior executives in that business unit.
Since the year end, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been reviewed and amended in order to ensure they comply All directors have direct access to the advice and services of with the provisions of the US, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 2002, as they the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the affect UK companies with a dual-listing in the US.
Board on procedures and applicable rules and regulations.
Papers are provided to all directors approximately one week On 20 January 2003, Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees before the relevant Board or Committee meeting.
Combined Code Guidance was published.
It is expected that the guidance will be incorporated into the Code later this year.
Board Committees The Audit Committee is currently reviewing the guidance The Board has established the following standing committees contained in the report and the appropriateness of the best of non-executive directors with written terms of reference: practice recommendations made and will consider further what, if any, additional changes are required.
Audit Committee Rob Rowley Chairman Remuneration Committee Bart Becht Roberto Mendoza Chairman from 1 July 2002 Ann Burdus Sir David Barnes Chairman until 1 July 2002 Sandy Stewart Bart Becht Ann Burdus The Audit Committee normally meets six times a year and Rob Rowley assists the Board in meeting its responsibilities under the Code Sandy Stewart in ensuring an effective system of financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
It provides a direct channel of Upon appointment to the Board, all non-executive directors communication between the external and internal auditors and automatically become members of the Remuneration Committee.
the Board, and assists the Board in ensuring that the external While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not members, audit is conducted in a thorough, objective and cost-effective they attend meetings unless there is a conflict of interest.
It also reviews the Internal Audit annual work plan.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include reviewing The Remuneration Committee normally has scheduled meetings with the management of the Company and the external auditors at least twice a year and a number of ad hoc meetings, as required, the performance of the external auditors and the extent of to review remuneration policy and determines the remuneration 30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 packages of the executive directors.
In framing its remuneration Non-executive directors are appointed initially for a three-year policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the term.
The appointment is reviewed towards the end of this provisions of Section 1B of and Schedule A to the Code.
Upon appointment, all non-executive directors embark Remuneration Report prepared by the Board is set out on pages upon an induction programme that will usually take the form 33 to 43.
In preparing the Report, the Board has followed the of visits to different business areas in the Group where the provisions of Schedule B to the Code and The Directors opportunity is taken for the newly appointed director to meet Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. members of staff.
Training is available for executive directors where appropriate.
Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, the All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman and the at regular intervals and at least every three years, and annually Group Chief Executive about the Committees proposals at each Annual General Meeting following their reaching the relating to the remuneration of all executive directors.
Committee has access to professional advice inside and outside the Company.
Relations with Shareholders As a major institutional investor, the Company is aware of the Nomination Committee importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
The Company has a standing Nomination Committee, with The Company regularly holds discussions with major shareholders written terms of reference, the members of which are: and a programme of meetings took place during 2002.
Information on the Company is also made available on our website at David Clementi Chairman www.
co. uk Sir David Barnes Ann Burdus The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill Sandy Stewart Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Thursday The Nomination Committee meets as required to consider 8 May 2003 at 11.00 a. m. The Company believes the Annual candidates for appointment to the Board and to make General Meeting is an important forum for both institutional recommendations to the Board in respect of those candidates.
and private shareholders and encourages attendance by all its shareholders.
At its Annual General Meeting in 2002, the Independent Professional Advice Company indicated the balance of proxies lodged for each The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have resolution after it had been dealt with on a show of hands and the right in furtherance of their duties to seek independent the total percentage of share capital voted on all resolutions.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
This practice provides shareholders present with sufficient information regarding the level of support and opposition to Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent each resolution.
The Company discloses the number of the professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director proxy votes received to any shareholder upon request after to the Company Secretary who will, unless otherwise instructed the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General by the director concerned, circulate to other directors any Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at the necessary information to ensure that other members of the same time as the Annual Report, and Annual Review and Board are kept informed on issues arising affecting the Company Summary Financial Statement at least 20 working days before or any of its subsidiaries.
At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, as with last years meeting, questions will be sought from shareholders.
No director obtained independent professional advice during 2002.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 2002 As mentioned above, the Company is monitoring the introduction Directors Independence, Training and Re-election of this US legislation and the regulations that relate to it.
The The non-executive directors were throughout the year and Company will comply with its requirements, as they affect UK continue to be considered to be independent.
A Disclosure Committee, reporting to the Group calibre and experience of our non-executive directors, and Chief Executive, chaired by the Group Finance Director and given that the roles of the Chairman of the Board, the Group comprising members of senior management has been established Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to supervise the Companys disclosure process and to provide the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee were all held the necessary framework to support the certifications required by different people, the Board did not believe that it was to be given under the Act.
appropriate to recognise a senior independent director, other than these directors, to whom concerns can be conveyed in The Higgs Review respect of relevant issues.
While the Company has for some time had practices in place which comply with the majority of the recommendations in the The Company is one of the UKs largest institutional investors Review, it believes a fuller debate is required before any changes and the Board does not believe that this situation compromises to the Combined Code are made.
The Company is currently the independence of those non-executive directors who are carrying out a detailed review of its existing arrangements and also on the boards of companies in which the Company has a will consider what changes, if any, are necessary for the promotion shareholding.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings of best practice in the boardroom.
should not preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre non-executive directors.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Financial Reporting Businesses are required to confirm annually that they have The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the undertaken risk management during the year as required by performance and financial position of the Group and are the Group Risk Framework and that they have reviewed the responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages 47 effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The results to 85 and the supplementary information on pages 90 to 101. of this review were reported to and reviewed by the Audit It is the responsibility of the auditors to form an independent Committee, and confirmed that the processes described opinion, based on their audit of the financial statements and above and required by the Group Risk Framework were in their review of the supplementary financial statements: and place throughout the period covered by this report, and to report their opinions to the Companys shareholders.
complied with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on Their opinions are given on pages 86 and 102. the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
Internal Audit undertakes a review for the Audit Committee of the operation Company law requires the directors to prepare financial of the risk management process throughout the Group.
statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of In addition Internal Audit executes a comprehensive risk based the results for the period and which comply with the Companies audit plan throughout the Group, from which all significant Act 1985.
In preparing those statements, the directors ensure issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
that suitable accounting policies are selected and applied consistently, that reasonable and prudent judgements and The Groups internal control framework includes detailed estimates are made and that applicable accounting standards procedures laid down in financial and actuarial procedure are followed.
They also ensure that appropriate accounting manuals.
The Group prepares an annual business plan with records are maintained which disclose with reasonable accuracy three-year projections.
Executive management and the Board at any time the financial position of the Company and enable receive monthly reports on the Groups actual performance them to prepare the financial statements and that reasonable against plan, together with regularly updated forecasts.
The steps are taken to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Groups risk management procedures are further described prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to use the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The control procedures and systems the Group has established are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The system of internal controls includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In reviewing the risk management framework the Company has during the year commissioned independent reports on its risk management processes and procedures.
The Group Risk Framework, adopted in 1999, requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
The system of internal control is an essential and integral part of the risk management process.
As part of the annual preparation of its business plan, all of the Groups businesses and functions are required to carry out a review of risks.
This involves an assessment of the impact and likelihood of key risks and of the effectiveness of controls in place to manage them.
The assessment is reviewed regularly throughout the year.
In addition, business units review opportunities and risks to business objectives regularly with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
