Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Relation to the Achieved Profits Basis Supplementary Information The guidance issued in December 2001 by the Association of determine assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard British Insurers entitled Supplementary Reporting for Longto past, current and expected future experience and to any Term Insurance Business the achieved profits method the relevant external data, and then apply them consistently: guidance requires the directors to prepare supplementary information presented under the achieved profits method in state whether applicable accounting standards have been accordance with the guidance.
followed in relation to the residual assets, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the An explanation of the achieved profits basis of reporting is supplementary information: provided on pages 23 to 25 of the Groups financial statements.
prepare the supplementary information on the going concern In preparing the achieved profits basis supplementary basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company information, the directors are required to: will continue in business.
select suitable methodologies and then apply them consistently: Independent Auditors Report to Prudential plc on the Achieved Profits Basis Supplementary Information We have audited the supplementary information on pages 90 Basis of Audit Opinion to 101 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2002.
The We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards supplementary information has been prepared in accordance issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes with the guidance issued in December 2001 by the Association examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts of British Insurers entitled Supplementary Reporting for Longand disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes term Insurance Business the achieved profits method the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary page 92.
The supplementary information should be read in information, and of whether the accounting policies are conjunction with the primary financial statements which are on appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied pages 47 to 54. and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been information and explanations which we considered necessary in undertaken so that we might state to the Company those order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for assurance that the achieved profits basis supplementary no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we information is free from material mis-statement, whether caused do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, the Company, for our audit work, for this report, or for the we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion As described above the directors responsibilities include In our opinion, the achieved profits basis supplementary preparing the supplementary information on the achieved information for the year ended 31 December 2002 has been profits basis in accordance with the guidance issued by properly prepared in accordance with the guidance using the the Association of British Insurers.
Our responsibilities, methodology and assumptions set out on page 92. as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with KPMG Audit Plc the guidance using the methodology and assumptions set Chartered Accountants out on page 92.
We also report if we have not received all London the information and explanations we require for our audit.
21 March 2003 102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002
