41 41 Capita Capita Corporate governance The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance for which the Group Board is accountable to shareholders.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied within the Group and sets out the Groups compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance.
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year except that the Non-Executive Directors do not have fixed term appointments.
They are, in accordance with the Articles of Association, subject to re-election every three years.
The important point of principle is that the Non-Executive Directors continue to maintain a vigorous independence and the Group Board encourages such independence without reservation.
The workings of the Group Board and its committees The Group Board The Group Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the direction of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
It is also responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment that identifies and manages appropriately the risks associated with the business.
During the year the Group Board continued to comprise four Executive Directors the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, and two other Executive Directors together with a senior independent Non-Executive Director and two other independent Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of all the Directors appear on pages 36 and 37.
Taken together, these biographies evidence the necessary breadth and depth of relevant experience within the Group Board to ensure the effective and independent discharge of its responsibilities in directing the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to constructively and independently challenge the business development plans that are proposed by executive management and to effectively monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of agreed business objectives.
The Group Board is scheduled to meet nine times annually, and all Group Board Directors are provided with complete, timely and relevant information to ensure that informed judgments are made in the pursuit of the Groups objectives.
In addition, there is an established procedure for all Group Board Directors to take independent professional advice as may be necessary in the furtherance of their duties, at the expense of the Group.
A statement of Group Board Directors responsibilities in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts is set out on page 40.
The Group Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Executive Management Board.
Its structure and composition is set out on page 38.
A schedule of matters is reserved for the attention of the Group Board.
The following committees of the Group Board deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Cawdron and comprises the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Group Board, having regard to the necessary balance and structure of the Group Board.
In appropriate cases recruitment consultants are used to assist the process.
All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Group Board on the Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
The Group Board itself determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors, though the Executive Chairman attends meetings by invitation.
The Committee is chaired by Peter Cawdron and is advised by a leading firm of remuneration consultants, Inbucon-Meis.
The report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 44 to 48.
42 Capita Corporate governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Robert Alcock.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Group Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Committee meets not less than three times annually.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial reporting and related matters including the half-year and annual accounts before their submission to the Group Board.
The Committee is required to focus in particular on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group, and any significant areas of judgment that materially impact reported results.
It is also responsible for monitoring the internal controls that are operated by management to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors, and advises the Group Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and on their remuneration both for statutory audit and non-audit work.
The policy on a review of change of auditors is that the Board would invite proposals from a number of audit firms before reaching a conclusion.
It also discusses the nature, scope and timing of the statutory audit with the external auditors.
The Committee also reviews the appropriateness of the annual internal audit programme for the Group, and ensures that the business risk management and internal audit functions are adequately sponsored and resourced.
Relations with shareholders Capita is committed to its shareholders and communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Group and its Directors.
The Chairmans statement on pages 28 to 35 includes a detailed review of the business and future developments.
There is regular, open dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Groups preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
In addition the Group holds Business Update Briefings twice a year, one-to-one meetings and also visits to our overseas investors.
All investors can view up to date financial and business information on Capitas website www.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Board aims to ensure that all the Non-Executive Directors are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in April 2003 can be found in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control The Group Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, amongst others, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition: maintaining proper accounting records: and the reliability of financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key procedures that the Group Board has established are designed to provide effective internal control within the Group and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Such procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 19th February 2003, the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
In the case of companies acquired during the year, all such entities were the subject of appropriate due diligence.
The internal controls in place in these companies have been reviewed against the Groups benchmarks post acquisition and have been or are being integrated into the Groups systems and standards.
The Groups key internal control procedures include the following: Authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing Directors within limits set by the Executive Management Board under powers delegated by the Group Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group, other than Group Board appointments, requires the approval of the Executive Management Board.
The Executive Management Board establishes key operational, functional and financial reporting standards for application across the whole Group.
These are supplemented by operating standards set by local management teams, as required for the type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit.
Comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual business unit level and summarised at the Divisional and Group levels.
Financial plans are reviewed and approved by both the Executive Management Board and the Group Board.
Results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly and in detail by Executive Directors on a group-wide basis at the business unit level each month.
Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary control with appropriate authority levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Group Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Group Board.
43 Capita Corporate governance The Executive Management Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor the application of policies, procedures and standards in areas including operations: finance: legal, commercial and regulatory compliance: human resources and health and safety: information security and property management and the environment.
Systems and procedures are in place in the Group to identify, assess and mitigate the major business risks, including credit, liquidity, operational error, reputation, regulatory and fraud.
Exposure to these risks is monitored as an integral part of the monthly challenge to business results discussed above, and these are escalated to the Executive Management Board and the Group Board as appropriate.
Risk management disciplines are monitored and developed by a Group Risk Management function, which works closely with operational businesses to maintain appropriate and effective processes to meet continually evolving requirements.
Group Internal Audit reports to the Group Risk Management function and monitors compliance with Group policies and standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures operated across the business.
The work of the internal audit function is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group as determined by the process of risk identification and assessment discussed above.
In addition, regulatory issues and compliance matters are monitored and resolved by a Group Compliance Manager working with local management teams.
Both the Group Internal Audit and Regulatory Compliance functions report through the Head of Risk Management to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee routinely monitors the internal controls that are in force and any perceived gaps in the control environment.
The Audit Committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the internal and external auditors.
The Group Board has kept under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control.
The key processes used by the Group Board in carrying out its reviews include regular reports from the Executive Management Board: periodic updates from the Audit Committee based on its review of risk management and internal audit reports by the relevant group functions: discussions with and reports from the external auditors, and regulatory reports.
In addition, the Divisional Board Directors and Divisional Finance Directors provide annual confirmation that the Divisions internal controls and systems are designed to provide accurate financial information and to adequately safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of its assets: and that provision is made for all amounts known to be irrecoverable at the balance sheet date: and that accruals are accurately stated and, to the extent that they are known, all potential liabilities have been notified.
Social responsibility Capita has always taken very seriously its corporate responsibility towards staff, the community and the environment.
It has recently launched a corporate social responsibility website www.
Reporting on progress towards sustainability is the first step towards formally integrating corporate social responsibility CSR into the overall practices, policies and systems through which the business is managed.
For the second year running the Group has been included in the FTSE4Good Indices Series for socially responsible investment.
The index is for the use of investors seeking companies with strong records of corporate social responsibility.
It is primarily the Groups involvement in local communities across the UK which has led to the Groups inclusion.
Our overall policies and approach to CSR are agreed by the Executive Management Board.
In addition, the Group Finance Director sponsors Capitas CSR agenda at Group Board level.
Environmental matters The Groups business has a limited direct impact on the environment.
However, Capita recognises that its day-to-day activities impact on the environment in both positive and negative ways.
Capita is committed to a sustainable approach to environmental issues, including the use of natural resources and energy.
We have embarked on a Group-wide environment programme to build on the good work done to date.
An audit of all Capita sites was completed at the end of 2002.
As a result we have agreed an overarching Environmental policy and are now working towards agreeing a more detailed policy together with processes and systems to implement the policy during 2003.
Further details on Capitas approach to the environment can be found on pages 24 and 25 and on our CSR website www.
