ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 39 authority to make political expenditure as dened by the PPER Auditors Act of up to 100,000 to cover any commitments that might Following the transfer by the Companys auditors otherwise be caught by the PPER Act.
Full details of the resolution  of substantially all of its business to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained to  LLP, a Limited Liability Partnership, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting that is being sent to with effect from 1 January 2003,  all shareholders.
resigned on 5 March 2003 and the directors appointed  LLP, as auditors of the Company.
Annual General Meeting A resolution to reappoint  The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hotel InterLLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at Continental, One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, London the Annual General Meeting.
Enclosed with this report is a letter dated 2 April 2003 from the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached to the letter is the Notice convening By order of the directors the Annual General Meeting, which includes an explanation of J V Miller all the resolutions and is being sent to all shareholders more Group Company Secretary than 20 working days before the meeting.
London, 5 March 2003 Corporate Governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code As at that date there were two executive directors and seven The Group complied throughout 2002 with the provisions of non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Section 1 of The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance During the year, Paul Spencer, Anthony Forbes and Bob and Code of Best Practice The Combined Code except for Mendelsohn left the Board on 31 March 2002, 15 May 2002 and b.
1.7 setting or reducing notice periods for directors to one year 11 September 2002 respectively.
John Napier joined the Board on or less.
Details of the notice periods for the service contracts of 9 January 2003 and Andy Haste will join the Board as an executive executive directors are given in the Remuneration Report on pages director on 2 April 2003.
It is the Companys intention that the notice period for new executive appointments will be one year in accordance with The effective operation of the Board falls principally under the the Combined Code.
responsibility of the Chairman who is a non-executive director.
On 17 March 2003 John Napier will be appointed Chairman Governance and Sir Patrick Gillam will resign as Chairman.
Sir Patrick Gillam The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance will resign as a non-executive director on 31 March 2003. policy and recognises its responsibilities to shareholders and The separate role of senior independent non-executive director is other stakeholders to uphold the highest standards in economic, deemed to be held by the Deputy Chairman in accordance with social, environmental and ethical matters by ensuring the Group the Combined Code.
The day to day management of the business conducts its activities in accordance with corporate governance falls under the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive who is best practice.
The Combined Code is issued by the UK Listing accountable for his actions to the Board.
There is a clear division Authority and sets out recommendations as to best practice in of responsibility between all these roles.
The non-executive directors, who are all inuential in the Boards The Boards accountability is demonstrated by: decision making process, come from a range of industries and allocating major roles and responsibilities to ensure that the possess a mix of skills and business experience.
They maintain an interests of shareholders and other stakeholders are taken into underlying responsibility to ensure that their judgement is exercised account by individuals in the performance of their duties: freely and independently from any relationship with the executive management of the Group and, in the Boards opinion, there is no requiring formal, clear procedures to be observed in certain key business or relationship within the current structure, that could areas so that decisions and actions can be readily reviewed both materially interfere with the exercise of this judgement.
This ensures internally and externally by regulators and auditors: and that the interests of the Companys shareholders are effectively promoted and represented through the Board.
the adoption of clear and formal procedures in key areas of the Groups activities including the Boards terms of reference and The Group operates under the overall control of the Board, which through the practice of business in accordance with the Groups is ultimately accountable for the strategic direction, activities and Statement of Business Principles.
This can be found on the competent management of the business.
com The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved The Board for its attention to ensure that it exercises full control over The current Board of Directors is made up of ten directors, nine significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
of whom served throughout the year ended 31 December 2002.
All members of the Board are regularly briefed and updated on Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 40 Corporate Governance continued key activities of the business and are provided with briengs and In particular, emphasis has been placed upon strengthening the presentations on other matters concerning the Group as the need parts of the framework through which risk policy is established arises.
On appointment, new directors are subject to a formal and management is challenged in their approach to risk.
This induction programme and receive appropriate training and centre led, second line of defence, is essential in addition to guidance on their duties and responsibilities.
Directors also have the strong management led or first line of defence risk access to the services and advice of the Company Secretary, and management mechanisms which the Group has employed for may take additional independent professional advice at the some time, for example its worldwide risk self appraisal process.
Groups expense, in furtherance of their duties.
Some examples of the key changes are outlined below.
Regular reassessment of the composition of the Board is ensured A Board Risk Committee has been established, formed of through the Articles of Association of the Company which require members of the Group Board and the executive team.
Its purpose directors to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
In is to define the Groups risk appetite, agree policy and minimum addition, any directors appointed during the year are required by standards and provide oversight and challenge of the Groups risk the Articles to submit themselves for conrmation of re-appointment management processes.
The Committee achieves these objectives by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
A full list of by meeting monthly to consider reports from risk specialists both directors and the Committees on which they sit is shown on internal and external to the Group, and to receive and review pages 14 and 15.
Group level risk management information.
Board committees A Group Risk Management department has also been established, The Board has delegated the task of monitoring executive formed of specialists in all key risk areas, specically: insurance, actions and determining the rewards of executives to the following credit, market, operational and compliance risk.
The department committees, all of which have been established with formal terms of is headed by a Group Risk Director, who reports directly to the reference.
Minutes of all committee meetings are formally recorded.
Audit & Compliance Committee is chaired by John Baker and The Group Risk Management team is responsible for the deployment comprises three other non-executive directors.
The Committee of policy and standards, and the development of risk management meets at least four times a year and determines the appropriateness tools and techniques through which they can offer challenge to the of accounting policies to be used in the Groups published annual business.
As examples of the progress made by this team in the last report and accounts.
It is also responsible for assessing the year, they have established a Group wide portfolio review process independence and remuneration of the external audit function and have implemented a territorial licensing framework to cover all and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
high risk classes of business worldwide.
Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Gillam and The portfolio review process involves business representatives comprises three other non-executive directors.
The Committee is from all the key functions of the business including a Group Risk responsible for considering all new Board appointments plus the Management representative for higher risk classes of business re-appointing of existing directors when their re-election is due, coming together on a scheduled basis to discuss the status and as their re-appointment is not automatic.
prospects for each portfolio in each operation in the Group against set review criteria.
Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nicholas Barber and comprises five other non-executive directors.
The Committee Under the territorial licensing process, operations are no longer determines the level and make up of remuneration for the permitted to write classes of business which are dened by the executive directors and certain senior management.
Details Group as higher risk unless they have successfully applied for of the Groups remuneration policy and individual directors a licence from Group Risk Management.
A separate licence is remuneration are provided on pages 43 to 49. required for each higher risk class of business an operation wishes to write.
Licences are only issued if the operation meets certain Risk management and internal control dened criteria, and strict parameters are imposed.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their In addition, an overview Group Risk policy has been rolled out and effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than more specic policy statements have been established in a number eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and of the Groups key risk areas.
Considerable further progress is also can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against scheduled for 2003. material financial misstatement or loss.
At Regional and operational level, risk committees and risk Executive management has the responsibility for establishing and management functions are also being established to ensure the implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own areas policy framework and challenge process is suitably embedded at of remit.
To cultivate a good operating and control environment, local level.
These local functions will have a direct reporting line the Group facilitates a number of specialist forums and practice into the Group Risk Director.
groups whereby senior executives throughout the Group who share similar functions, come together either in person, or The Group Risk Management function will also work closely with virtually by video conferences or dedicated websites, to develop the newly formed Group Capital Management function to ensure detailed policies and best working practices.
capital allocation can be more closely linked to different levels and The main systems of internal control are summarised below: categories of risk.
Risk management The Group has a high level of commitment to continuing to During the year the Group has focussed considerable attention evolve and improve its risk management framework.
The key on enhancing its risk management processes and structures.
As areas of best practice that will support this are: a result, the Group has made a number of progressive changes, A very clear statement of Risk Appetite in terms of macro bringing together and building upon the existing elements of its parameters, business volumes in some classes, loss retention, risk management framework.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 41 reinsurance, and other appropriate measures, supplemented target financial returns are set for each Region and expressed, by management information which enables effective monitoring in more detail in an annual budget that is approved by the Board.
Throughout the year, the executive directors regularly prepare statements of actual revenue and expenditure together with A framework for developing robust processes for the revised financial forecasts, which are presented to the Board.
identication, assessment including quantication and aggregation, monitoring and control of risk Business The commercial directors meetings and Group Underwriting A structural and procedural adherence to the Risk Based Forum are examples of the specialist forums and practice groups approach to governance being strongly promulgated by the mentioned above.
These particular bodies oversee the application Groups regulator, the Financial Services Authority of a Portfolio Review process, which is operated at country level, and was introduced in 2002.
An embedded challenge process whereby the Group centre and parallel structures within the larger territories will challenge The Portfolio Review process is a mechanism whereby business activity and balance sheet issues underwriting portfolios which are classied as more volatile or higher risk, are reviewed by an experienced team with wide Greater consideration of risk in the business strategy setting ranging professional backgrounds and, if necessary, corrective process, leading to improved risk return actions are agreed.
These cover areas such as actual performance compared to plan, pricing and aggregation of risk.
Greater transparency and wider understanding of risk throughout the Group General There are documented delegations of authority for senior A more effective allocation and use of capital and more explicit executive management, which clearly set out the levels of recognition of capital held in relation to specic categories of risk approval required for key transactions.
In some instances, for example new business propositions, the approval itself Enhancement of early warning systems throughout the Group is dependent upon the satisfactory outcome of a rigorous to avoid surprises, and enable issues that could give rise to investment appraisal process.
Within underwriting, there are unacceptable risk exposures to be better understood and certain types of risks which no one is authorised to accept, monitored by Group centre or which require express sanction at a high level in the Group.
A proactively policed Portfolio Management Programme External review and regulation The activities of the Group in all of the main countries in which A more cohesive and dynamic counter party risk it operates are subject to review and examination from regulators, management approach external auditors and tax authorities.
The Financial Services Authority directly regulates the insurance industry within the UK.
A clear area of expertise which can offer the Board and It has issued its own Statements of Principle which are to be Executive Management a response to perceived or actual observed by both individuals and companies, some of which relate challenges in the broad area of risk to group wide activities.
This will serve to increase the Groups An internal audit function which addresses matters from monitoring role of the activities of all Regions in these areas.
a Group wide perspective Relations with shareholders In the 2001 report we announced that we had introduced The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and a regular newly developed computer software to assist in the process programme of dialogue is maintained between executive directors of recording and aggregating risk.
This complemented our well and institutional investors, plus their representative bodies.
Results are published quarterly and annual reviews are sent to all established and ongoing process of identifying and evaluating shareholders unless they have elected to receive a copy of the risks and related controls.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual This process has been in place throughout the year in review General Meeting where there is an opportunity to ask questions and up to the date of approval of the Report & Accounts.
The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees process conforms with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors are present at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders who are on the Combined Code The Turnbull Report and is subject to unable to attend or to ask a question in person, are invited to continuing review and improvement.
contact the Company in writing, or via its website.
The website is regularly updated and used to communicate a wide range of The Audit & Compliance Committee acts as a distinct and information about the Group, that is of interest to shareholders, separate activity from the workings of the Group Risk department customers and the public at large.
A specic section is devoted to and the Board Risk Committee.
Their remit provides an independent Shareholders Frequently Asked Questions inside the back cover.
counterbalance reviewing the self appraisal output and comparing In 2002 our UK asset management operations were sold to it with separate reports from the internal audit function and from ISIS Asset Management formerly Friends Ivory & Sime.
As part the main issues identied in the management letters provided by of the management of the Royal & SunAlliance funds we have the external auditors.
agreed that ISIS will apply their process for encouraging socially The Board, through the Audit & Compliance Committee, responsible investment.
We view this as a positive step towards considers that these reports give it sufficient information upon social engagement with companies in which we invest.
which to review the effectiveness of the systems of internal Health and safety control as required by provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
The welfare of staff is an essential principle for the Group, which strives to provide all its employees with safe conditions at work.
Financial At a worldwide level the risk management of the health, safety A risk based capital model is used to determine the optimum level and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and members of the of capital required by the Groups insurance business.
From this, Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 42 Corporate Governance continued public is recognised as a Board level issue.
The Group is Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
committed to complying with all of its statutory and regulatory In preparing such financial statements, they are required to: obligations worldwide which includes health and safety matters, select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a but delegates the detailed activities in this regard to Regional consistent basis using reasonable and prudent judgement: management.
This is in accordance with the Group culture that encourages and empowers people in Regional operations to take state whether or not applicable accounting standards have decisions and actions related to their own day to day activities.
been followed and explain any material departures: and Social, environmental and ethical matters use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The Board values its dialogue with institutional shareholders and their representative bodies which, taken together with the breadth Basis of accounts of experience that the Board collectively holds, ensures that it is The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group had adequate aware of significant social, environmental and ethical concerns resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having that stakeholders may have about the Group.
In addition, the risk given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed management process, which is described in more detail above, in the financial statements and have therefore prepared the financial should bring the Boards attention to any significant social, statements on a going concern basis.
environmental and ethical risks or opportunities faced by the Group that have a high likelihood of occurring.
The Group recognises the importance of keeping sustainable By order of the directors development principles at the heart of its business.
It has adopted J V Miller a Statement of Business Principles that is communicated to all Group Company Secretary staff throughout the Group.
This sets out values and standards London, 5 March 2003 of conduct staff are expected to follow to protect the Groups reputation and achieve its objectives.
The Statement is supported by a range of policies, which implement its requirements.
The awareness of concerns, combined with the knowledge of probable risks allows the Board to ensure that prompt and effective action is taken to control these risks and take advantage of opportunities.
More information on the Groups activities in this area can be found on pages 34 to 36 of this report.
Auditor independence The Group each year formally considers the performance of the external auditors prior to proposing a resolution to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting concerning the appointment and remuneration of auditors.
One of the key items in this review is to ensure that there are no matters that would compromise the independence of the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory duties.
 LLP previously  similarly consider whether there are any relationships, between themselves and the Company, that could have a bearing upon their independence and confirm, in writing, to the Company their independence.
In a number of areas  LLP were engaged as advisors by management of subsidiary businesses during the year.
Such appointments are made only following a formal open tender process involving  LLP and other suitably qualied advisors.
The Board is satisfied that none of these engagements gave rise to problems with auditor independence or other potential conicts of interest.
To reinforce the need to ensure independence, the Board issued in 2002 a Code of Conduct that gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the circumstances when it would, or would not, be appropriate to engage the auditors as advisors.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and UK non audit services is provided in note 13 to the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained so as to disclose, at any time and with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
They must present financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Previous Contents Next I I
