Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal governance.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are Companies to disclose how they have applied the principles advised to the Board as they arise.
The Board receives and of, and complied with, the provisions of the Combined Code considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc contained in the Listing Rules the Combined Code.
This reports and information are supplied to the Board as Statement, together with the Statement of Directors required.
In addition, Directors attend ad hoc seminars Responsibilities on page 23, indicates how the Company has covering the latest developments across the investment trust applied the principles of good governance of the Combined industry.
Code and its requirements on Internal Control.
BOARD COMMITTEES APPLICATION OF CODE PRINCIPLES The Investment Committee, which consists of Nicholas Ferguson Chairman, John Govett, Edgar Koning, John THE BOARD McLachlan, Denis Raeburn, Andrew Sykes and Andrew The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, Williams is responsible, together with the Board, for the dayfive of whom are independent of the Company Secretary and to-day management of the Companys investment portfolio.
In of the Company and its subsidiaries, and two executive particular, the Committee is responsible for reviewing Directors see page 2.
Mr Govett has in previous years been investment proposals for the Company, for giving investment considered not to be an independent director in view of his recommendations to the Board and for implementing the earlier directorship of Schroders plc.
The Board has carefully 24 Boards decision as regards any investment.
reviewed this matter again and has resolved that, as it is now more than four years since his retirement from Schroders plc, As part of the preparations for the Companys acquisition of he is now an independent director.
Mr Govett will become a Schroder Ventures London Limited and Schroder Ventures member of the Audit Committee in due course.
North America Inc. the Company established a Remuneration Committee during the year to 30 June 2001.
The The Board meets at least four times a year.
Matters specically Remuneration Committee, which has defined terms of reserved for decision by the full Board have been dened and reference and duties, is, inter alia responsible for making a procedure adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their recommendations to the Board in relation to the remuneration duties, to take independent professional advice at the of the Executive Directors and the issuance of share option expense of the Company.
The Directors have access to the grants under the Executive Share Option Plan established in advice and services of the Corporate Company Secretary 2001.
The Committee is comprised of John McLachlan through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Chairman, John Govett and Anthony Habgood.
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews certain contracts with service providers.
The Board has contractually delegated to Schroder Investment Management UK Limited, the management of The Company has established a Nominations Committee in the Companys cash balances, and the day to day accounting accordance with the recommendations of the Combined and company secretarial requirements to Schroder Code, to make recommendations on the appointment of Investment Management Limited.
Each of these contracts new Directors.
The Committee is comprised of Anthony was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Habgood Chairman, Nicholas Ferguson, Edgar Koning, Board of the quality and cost of services offered including the John McLachlan and Denis Raeburn.
A formal procedure financial control systems in operation in so far as they relate for the appointment of new Directors is contained in the to the affairs of the Company, and each contract is monitored terms of reference of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee.
as necessary to make recommendations to the Board on the filling of Board vacancies.
In making its When a Director is appointed he or she receives an induction recommendations, the Committee is required to ensure that which is provided by the Company Secretary.
Directors are the composition of the Board is appropriately balanced in provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the expertise and ability.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance continued ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT There is an Audit Committee with dened terms of reference The Directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the and duties.
The Committee is comprised of John McLachlan accounts is on page 23 and a statement of going concern is Chairman, Anthony Habgood, Edgar Koning and Denis set out below.
The function of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity and financial reporting.
It also meets with representatives of the The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 29.
Company Secretary and receives reports on the quality and GOING CONCERN effectiveness of the accounting records and management The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt information maintained on behalf of the Company.
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are All Directors are appointed for an initial term covering the readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has period from the date of their appointment until the first Annual adequate financial resources to continue in operational General Meeting thereafter, at which they are required to stand existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they for election, in accordance with the existing Articles of continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Association.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least accounts.
25 INTERNAL CONTROL RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Combined Code requires the Board to review the The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting effectiveness of internal controls.
The Board has undertaken provides an effective forum for private investors to a full review of all the aspects covered by the Turnbull communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
guidance under which the Board is responsible for the The Annual General Meeting is attended by members of the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its Board of Directors and a presentation is made.
opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board and of the Audit Committee at the During the year ended 30 June 2001 the Board approved a Annual General Meeting.
The Company announced the detailed risk map that identified significant strategic, level of votes cast by proxy on resolutions proposed at last investment-related, operational and service provider risks and years Annual General Meeting, and intends to announce adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk the votes cast by proxy in a similar manner at future General management and all aspects of internal control are Meetings.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to The Board has contractually delegated responsibility for the shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year provision of accounting and company secretarial services.
end and holding the earliest possible Annual General Meeting The Board believes that the key risks identified and the is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 58 to 59 sets out implementation of an ongoing system to identify, evaluate the business of the meeting.
and manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS Companys business as an investment trust.
The ongoing risk The Company has established a voting policy in respect of its assessment, which has been in place throughout the investments which, in summary, is based on the governance financial year and up to the date of this report, includes recommendations of the Combined Code with the intention consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of of voting in accordance with best practice whilst maintaining internal control adopted by major service providers, and a primary focus on financial returns.
ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance continued by third parties to the Board, and of the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Companys performance or condition.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place this can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
The Board will continue to monitor its framework of internal control and will continue to take steps to embed the system of internal control and risk management into the operations of the Company.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE 26 The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment took into account issues arising from the reports reviewed by the Board during the year together with any additional information necessary to enable the Board to take account of all significant aspects of internal control.
Following the annual review, the Board has agreed that an internal audit function, for the SVIIT Group, should be established with an external adviser.
It is anticipated that the initial programme of audit will commence later in 2002.
Except as explained below, the Company has complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code: The Board considers the Chairman to be the main point of contact to whom concerns from whatever source or of whatever nature may be conveyed.
In the event that a shareholder does not wish to raise a concern with him, the Board is of the view that such a shareholder should be free to contact any of its other non-executive members and it has decided that it is not appropriate to nominate a single senior independent Director.
