Annual Report & Accounts 2002 11 Corporate Governance This Statement, together with relevant information contained in the Mr. W. I. M. Turner, Jr. and Mr. A. O.
With effect from 13th March 2003, the Remuneration Report on pages 13 to 19, the Report of the Directors on pages membership will be Mr. K. A. H. Parry Chairman, Mr. B. L. Schroder and 20 and 21 and the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 22, indicates Mr. C. J. F. Sinclair, all non-executive Directors.
how Schroders plc has applied the principles of good governance contained A detailed review of the Group Compensation Committee covering its function, in Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance issued by the operations and membership is included in the Remuneration Report on pages Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 and with the requirements 13 to 19. on Internal Controls issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in September 1999.
The Nomination Committee meets as required to consider the membership and efficacy of the Board, and select and propose to the Board suitable candidates The Board is actively considering the implications of the recently published as executive and non-executive Directors.
Higgs Review of the role and responsibilities of non-executive directors, and its recommendations for changes to the Combined Code.
The Committees members during 2002 and at the date of this Statement were Mr. W. I. M. Turner, Jr. Chairman, Sir Peter Job, Mr. G. W. Mallinckrodt, Mr. B. L. Schroder, Mr. C. J. F. Sinclair and Mr. A. O.
With effect from 13th March 2003, the membership of the Committee will be Mr. H. M. P. Miles Application of Code Principles Chairman, Sir Peter Job, Mr. G. W. Mallinckrodt, Mr. B. L. Schroder and Board of Directors Mr. C. J. F. Sinclair.
The Board of Directors is responsible for Group strategy, for the direction of the Groups business and for investment of the Groups capital.
As set out on Review of Committees page 10, the Board currently comprises five executive and ten non-executive The effectiveness, membership and terms of reference of the Board Directors, two of whom will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Committees are reviewed by the Board annually.
In its review the Board Meeting.
Three of the non-executives are not considered to be independent.
considers the effectiveness of each Committee in fulfilling the function and Mr. N. E. H. Ferguson is not considered to be independent, in that he is in meeting the responsibilities delegated to it.
the former Chairman of Schroder Ventures.
Mr. G. W. Mallinckrodt is not considered to be independent, in that he was recently an executive Director.
Risk Management Mr. B. L. Schroder is not considered to be independent, in that he represents The principal risks facing the Group are operational and reputational risk our principal shareholder group.
although credit, market and liquidity risk exposures exist within the Group businesses and need to be managed appropriately.
The Board meets at least four times a year and the agenda for Board meetings incorporates a consistent pattern of items reserved for its decision.
During The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk 2002, Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Swensen were each unable to attend one quarterly management process, the principal features of which are set out below.
The Group Management Committee has approved a risk management The Chairman has high level responsibility for supervising the Groups business framework and structure established by the Group Risk function.
The and is responsible for ensuring the timely supply of information to the Board.
framework sets out a definition of risk and describes the methodology for the The services of the Company Secretary are available to all Board members and identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting of risks.
A risk management there is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional structure has been implemented which aligns risk governance with corporate advice at the Companys expense.
governance and embeds risk management within the business.
While senior management are accountable and responsible for managing risk within the External Appointments Group, they are supported, as appropriate, by dedicated risk personnel.
The Company permits executive Directors to accept non-executive directorships The Group Management Committee reviews the key corporate risks facing the and other similar appointments provided that they do not cause a conflict or Group and receives regular reports as to the current status of each risk.
inhibit the Directors ability to work for the Company.
It is recognised that such Additionally, senior management of business areas respond to comprehensive appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to questionnaires on business standards and controls to the Group Risk function the general benefit of the Group.
Summaries of the returns are supplied to the Group Audit Each appointment is subject to Board approval, including the details of Committee and to the Board.
The Board has determined that any compensation receivable in The Group Risk Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Chief Financial respect of these appointments is paid directly to the executive Director.
It oversees the risk management process on behalf of the Group Management Committee, to which it submits reports on a quarterly basis, and it Board Committees ensures that risk controls operate throughout the Group in accordance with To facilitate the effective management of the Groups affairs, certain functions regulatory and internal requirements and best practice, and that appropriate key and responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to Board Committees.
performance indicators are in place and are reviewed within the businesses.
The The Group Management Committee, which meets weekly, is the Groups Committee liaises with the relevant line management regarding any matters principal executive policy-making body and is responsible for ensuring that the giving cause for concern.
Group achieves its strategic goals and for reviewing, developing and Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed implementing Group strategy and policies.
The Committee is responsible for internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
It is overseen setting targets, reviewing business performance and for ensuring the by the Group Risk Committee.
Local management are responsible for effectiveness of business controls.
operational risk controls where appropriate and, depending on the size and Membership: Mr. M. W. R. Dobson Chairman, Mr. J. P. Asquith, Mr. P. J. Barry, complexity of the business unit, risk and control maps have been prepared and Mr. P. L. Clark, Mr. D. Gasparro, Mr. D. Gibson, Mr. L. E. Gray, these have been integrated into a world-wide risk management system.
This Mr. R. M. A. Horlick, Mr. P. S. A. Mallinckrodt, Mr. M. G. L. Pignatelli, system is used to obtain positive assurance from relevant managers as to the Mr. A. F. Sykes, Mrs. S. J. J. Tennant, Mr. M. Tosato, Mr. J.
operation of key controls on a monthly basis.
The Group Audit Committees principal function is to encourage and safeguard In respect of agency and principal credit risk, limits are reviewed and set the highest standards of integrity, financial reporting and internal control.
centrally by the Group Agency and Principal Risk Committees supported Meetings take place at least quarterly and one of these meetings is set aside to by a dedicated team of credit professionals.
Management in local offices is review the Groups statutory accounts before their presentation to the Board.
responsible for monitoring exposure against these limits and reporting to Group Issues arising are reported by the Committee Chairman to the following Board by exception.
In respect of principal risk, authority to set credit limits within an meeting.
overall Group limit has been delegated to the banking businesses in Guernsey and Switzerland.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditors, approves the annual audit programme and budget and makes recommendations on the The exposure to market risk needs to be set in the context that the Group does appointment of external auditors and their remuneration.
The private banking subsidiaries hold certain financial instruments debt securities, forward foreign exchange contracts and interest Further information on the Committees process for the assessment of the rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
It is Group policy to hedge effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is set out below.
interest rate risk but this is largely mitigated by the short-term re-pricing nature Membership: In advance of the proposed retirements of non-executive Directors of the interest bearing assets liabilities.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board has reviewed the The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries whose shareholders funds, membership of the Committee.
The Committees members during 2002 and at revenues and expenses are denominated principally in local currencies.
Financial the date of this Statement were Mr. C. J. F. Sinclair Chairman, Mr. B. L. Schroder, Schroders 12 Corporate Governance instruments are used within the Group where it is considered that the sterling On behalf of the Board, the Group Audit Committee has carried out its annual values of such amounts are at risk.
In such cases, forward foreign exchange assessment of the effectiveness of internal control during 2002 using the contracts with third parties are used as hedging devices to mitigate exposure to following process to support its conclusions: currency movements.
The use of such instruments is limited and is subject to the opinion of the Group Management Committee of key corporate risks and approval by the Capital Committee.
the responsibilities laid down for the management of those risks In addition, the Groups seed capital investments may also be hedged in respect a report from Group Risk summarising the results of the twice-yearly of market risk where it is possible to construct an effective hedge and there is a business standards and controls survey and highlighting any key control perceived risk of volatility in the value of the investment due to market issues identified movements.
Such hedging is achieved through the use of futures contracts.
The decisions to hedge market risk on seed capital investments are taken by a report from Group Risk including a description of the the Capital Committee on an aggregate basis and not by the individual risk management process, a summary of the work undertaken by the Group businesses making the investments.
Risk Committee and summary reports of any significant control issues arising Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and maintaining market risk an internal audit review of the effectiveness and application of the risk reports based upon the Financial Services Authoritys methodologies under the management process, including results of internal audits during the year, Capital Adequacy Directive.
The underlying methodologies and limits are showing outstanding matters reviewed and set centrally by the Principal Risk Committee.
Local risk areport detailing outstanding litigation and other major claims committees and the Principal Risk Committee review exposures against limits on a regular basis.
a report from Group Compliance summarising activity during the year and highlighting any major instances of non-compliance.
The liquidity of individual bank entities is monitored by the Principal Risk Committee and that of the Group by the Capital Committee.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks and that: The Capital Committee monitors and controls the use of the Groups nonoperating capital resources.
it has been in place for the year ended 31st December 2002 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts At a local level, dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and maintaining reports which measure the maturity and the amount of future net it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control cash flows, ensuring that sufficient cash resources and liquid assets can be guidance for directors in the Combined Code made available to meet liabilities as they fall due.
As with market risk, the reports The Board fully recognises the benefit of promoting a programme of continuous are based upon the Financial Services Authoritys methodologies under the improvement in the area of risk management.
The underlying methodologies and limits are reviewed and set centrally by the Principal Risk Committee.
Local risk committees and the Principal Risk Committee review liquidity exposures Compliance with Code Provisions against limits on a regular basis.
Except as explained below, the Company has complied throughout 2002 with Group Compliance undertakes detailed monitoring activities throughout the the best practice provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code: Group to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Detailed reports of these activities are prepared and discussed with management and The Board has made no appointment of a senior independent director.
summarised in reports to the Group Management, Group Risk and Group Given the appointment of a new independent non-executive Chairman on Audit Committees.
1st January 2003, and the changes to the chairmanship and composition of the Audit, Compensation and Nomination Committees, at this time the Board Group Internal Audit carries out a programme of audits, the results of which has chosen not to nominate a senior independent non-executive director are reported to business management and the Group Management, Group other than the Chairman.
This matter will be reviewed annually.
Risk and Group Audit Committees.
It also provides advice in relation to risk management and reviews the risk management process and the Mr. B. L. Schroder is a member of the Group Compensation Committee.
the reason stated above, he is not considered to be independent.
However, his membership is considered by the Board to be appropriate, in particular in Internal Control providing valuable input on equity-based compensation.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and By Order of the Board not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and John Bainbridge is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
