Carillion plc Corporate Governance Report General principles The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The provisions of the Combined Code, as adopted by the UK Listing Authority, have been applied by the Company as detailed below and in the Remuneration Report.
During the year to 31 December 2002, the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code other than in respect of the duration of two of the Executive Directors service contracts.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Chief Executives service contract is terminable by one years notice.
The service contracts of Chris Girling and Roger Robinson however are terminable in normal circumstances by two years notice in recognition of the long term nature of many of the Groups project-related activities.
A detailed internal review of the Boards procedures and effectiveness was conducted during the year by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The review took into account the views and preferences of each of the Directors and identified a number of areas where it was possible further to enhance the effectiveness of the Boards procedures and working practices.
Changes were successfully introduced in those areas, and it is the Boards intention to repeat the review annually.
Directors The Board The Company is headed by a Board comprising three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout 2002, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Board and this continues to be the case.
With the exception of the Chairman, who previously was Group Chief Executive, each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of management.
They each have wide areas of experience and have no business or other relationship that could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
Jean-Paul Parayre is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board has a programme of seven meetings during the year and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration and decision is maintained and all Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent professional advice where necessary, at the expense of the Company.
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as a whole, together with reports on other trading matters, markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
In addition, the Board reviews, determines and approves Company strategy, annual budgets and participation in major project undertakings as appropriate.
The Board has established a number of committees including the following: The Remuneration Committee which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors is chaired by Andrew Parrish.
It has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 35 to 41.
The Audit Committee which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors is chaired by Roger Dickens.
Its terms of reference require that it meets at least three times each year and include the review of the annual and interim financial statements, consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations, the operating, financial and accounting policies of the Group and its statutory and other external compliance requirements.
The Committee has responsibility for risk management and for the role of the internal audit function and reviews all aspects of internal audit activity.
The Committee also reviews the scope and results of the external audit and its cost-effectiveness, and ensures that the internal and external audit functions are complementary.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors are monitored and their services, including non-audit services, are reviewed so as to ensure a proper balance between objectivity and value for money.
The Nominations Committee which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors is chaired by Sir Neville Simms.
It considers the size and structure of, and any new appointments to, the Board.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 31 Carillion plc Corporate Governance Report continued Other Board Matters Policy on external appointments Recognising that external appointments can broaden the knowledge of the Executive Directors, and can therefore be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors at the discretion of the Board, are permitted to accept a limited number of such external appointments and retain the fees received for them.
Chris Girling has such an appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Barlow Group Limited.
Nomination and remuneration of Directors The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are normally for three years: re-appointment is subject to review and is not automatic.
As an exception to this, the Chairman has a service contract which commenced on 1 February 2001 for a period of two years and which continues thereafter if both parties agree unless and until terminated by either party giving one years notice.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on independent external advice.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
Retirement of Directors by rotation The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible for re-election at the third Annual General Meeting after the meeting at which he was elected or last re-elected.
All Directors appointed by the Board are subject to retirement and election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following such appointment.
Details of the Director retiring and seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2003 are given in the Report of the Directors on pages 42 and 43 respectively.
Training of Directors Training in matters relating to the directorship of a listed company is provided for all members of the Board where appropriate.
Relations with shareholders In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time to time, the Executive Directors regularly meet with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2003 to respond to shareholders questions.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 32 Carillion plc Accountability and Audit Internal controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control environment, which is the foundation for an effective system of internal control, and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following publication of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial faced by the Group.
This process includes joint ventures full risk assessments prior to financial close and during contract delivery and the overseas businesses as part of strategic and international risk assessment procedures.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
It is policy to bring organisations acquired within the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within twelve months of acquisition.
For example, the operational and financial controls at GT Railway Maintenance the remaining 51 per cent of which was acquired in September 2001 and which now forms part of Carillion Rail have been reviewed and are considered to meet Carillion standards.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, during 2002 the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business has been reviewed and updated, together with the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across the Group is provided through a mix of techniques: Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls and reports its findings to management, the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee.
The scope of this work is planned primarily to cover the key risks faced by the business, but is supplemented by cyclical reviews of core financial processes.
The Audit Plan is presented to and approved by the Audit Committee annually: recommendations to improve the system of control are made by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is followed up and progress regularly reported to the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee: Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification procedures and control processes implemented by management: a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group.
This process has been reviewed and changed during 2002 to enhance the quality of information received, facilitate validation of the information and enhance the development of best practice internal control across the Group.
Directors and senior managers are required to confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively: and Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of internal controls in key business projects and on policy and procedure changes.
Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures that the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It also ensures that the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee members if and when required.
The Group Head of Risk a role separated from the Head of Internal Audit in 2002 is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues across the Group and within business groups and for oversight of risk training.
The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee of the Board see below.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
A committee of the Board, known as the Major Projects Committee, acts as the sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has been delegated authority up to specified levels, beyond which Board approval is required.
Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
Wherever possible, the Board operates a policy of prosecuting individuals found to have defrauded the Company.
Learning points for management are identified and action plans are implemented.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These risks are continually assessed and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies set by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance review meetings are held where management report to the Executive Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 33 Carillion plc Corporate Governance Report continued The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes key performance indicators see Financial Review on page 30 and a summary of risk.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by the Audit Committee.
Audit independence The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, in their reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee meets three times a year and the KPMG Audit Director and manager are present at these meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditors, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgemental areas.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of Audit Directors responsibilities within KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards and is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments with KPMG and its associates have been and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
In summary the procedures are: audit related services: as auditors this is the main area of work of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support is required then this is considered competitively: tax consulting: Carillion uses KPMG and its associates in cases where they are best suited, but the Group also uses other tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively: and general and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects are put out to competitive tender.
Of the consulting work that has taken place in the Group in recent years, KPMG and its associates have had only a small part.
Apart from audit fees, the Group Finance Director must approve work carried out by KPMG and its associates anywhere in the Group in excess of a predetermined threshold and part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
Taken together these procedures provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Health and safety A review of the Groups progress on health and safety, environmental and social performance is contained in the Sustainability Review on pages 22 to 25.
RF Tapp Secretary 12 March 2003 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 34
