CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to maintaining high levels of integrity and ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
Board of Directors The executive Directors meet on a The primary responsibilities of the The Board considers that it has monthly basis with other senior Board are to: complied throughout the financial executives to consider operational period with the provisions set out in issues as well as business development determine the overall strategy of section one of the Combined Code.
plans, financial and operating budgets the Group: The Group has been closely and forecasts, capital expenditure ensure that the Groups operations monitoring the progress of the Higgs proposals and key performance are well managed and proper review and will be carrying out a indicators.
succession plans are in place: review of the Groups corporate review major transactions or governance policies once the revised Directors receive training in their initiatives proposed by the Combined Code is published.
duties and responsibilities on executive directors: appointment as part of an induction implement appropriate corporate The Group applies the provisions of process designed to assist them in governance procedures: the Combined Code through the their understanding of the business.
periodically review the results and Board and its Committees, which The Directors are regularly updated operations of the Group: meet regularly and have ready access on corporate governance issues and ensure that proper accounting to all relevant information required to have access to the advice of the records are maintained and enable effective, independent decision Company Secretary and to adequate controls are in place to making.
The full Board meets four independent professional advice safeguard the assets of the Group times a year, with additional meetings where needed in furtherance of their from fraud and other significant arranged on an ad hoc basis as duties.
Further training is provided as risks: and required.
Board members are given necessary.
decide the Groups policy on appropriate documentation for each charitable and political donations.
This will normally The Board currently consists of include detailed reports on current 5 executive and 9 non-executive To aid the achievement of these trading, operational issues including Directors, 5 of whom are considered objectives, a formal schedule of compliance and recruitment, as well by the Board to be independent of matters reserved for the Board, or as papers from the Finance Director management and free from any any duly appointed committee, has and the Appointed Actuary.
The business or other relationships which been drawn up.
In addition, during Board also receives reports from the could materially interfere with the the year a formalised Board Control Chairmen of the various Committees exercise of their judgement.
All Manual was introduced, setting out of the Board.
Directors are required to submit the primary policy and decisionthemselves for re-election at regular making mechanisms within the intervals, and at least every 3 years.
PAGE 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued It is the responsibility of the The Audit Committee examines Sir Mark Weinberg chairs the Chairman to ensure the continued any matters relating to the Nomination Committee which effectiveness of the Board of financial affairs of the Group, considers appointments to the Directors and he liaises with including reviews of the Companys Board and the independence of the Chief Executive to make financial accounts and management any proposed new non-executive recommendations to the Board on information, internal control Directors.
The other members of Group strategy.
The Chief Executives procedures, risk management the Nomination Committee are primary responsibility is to manage processes, accounting policies The Viscount Weir and Michael the Group and implement the and compliance with accounting Sorkin.
strategies adopted by the Board.
The Committee maintains responsibility for ensuring the The Compliance Committee, chaired Board Committees independent, cost effective and by Anthony Loehnis, is made up of The Board has formally objectivity of the Groups Auditors, executive Sir Mark Weinberg, David constituted Audit, Nomination and and for assessing the continued Bellamy, Ian Gascoigne and Mike Remuneration Committees, all of effectiveness of the Board and its Wilson and non-executive Directors which comply with the provisions committees.
The Committee also Anthony Loehnis and Charles of the Combined Code.
The Board approves the internal audit plan for Bailey to deal explicitly with has also constituted a Compliance the year and receives reports on, regulatory risks and issues.
The Committee to consider regulatory and reviews, the results of such Committees main responsibilities issues affecting the Group.
are: Details of membership of these The Remuneration Committee reviewing the adequacy and Committees can be found on pages comprises solely non-executive effectiveness of the compliance 14 to 17.
Directors, all of whom are and regulatory risk policies and independent.
The Committee, chaired procedures of the Group: The Audit Committee, chaired by by The Viscount Weir, also comprises monitoring the results of Derek Netherton, comprises two Charles Bailey, Derek Netherton and regulatory visits to the Group: other independent non-executive Michael Sorkin.
It determines all making recommendations for Directors Charles Bailey and Lord aspects of the executive Directors changes in regulatory risk related Weir and one non-independent nonremuneration, as well as their terms practices or procedures: and executive Director Phil Hodkinson and conditions of employment.
The approving the compliance as an appointee of HBOS plc in Remuneration Report is set out on monitoring plan for the year accordance with the Relationship pages 26 to 38. and receiving reports on, and Agreement.
reviewing the results of, such compliance monitoring activity.
PAGE 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Relationship with HBOS PLC Relationships with state whether applicable A company which has a majority Shareholders accounting standards have been shareholder must be capable at all The Board maintains close followed, subject to any material times of carrying out its business relationships with institutional departures disclosed and independently of such a shareholder shareholders through dialogue and explained in the financial and all transactions and relationships frequent meetings.
In addition, there statements: and between the company and the are regular meetings with our prepare the financial statements controlling shareholder must be at brokers, Cazenove and Co on a going concern basis, unless arms length and on a normal Limited and Dresdner Kleinwort it is inappropriate to presume commercial basis.
To this end, the Wasserstein, who facilitate meetings that the Group will continue in Company and Halifax Group with other investors and their business.
plc entered into the Relationship representatives.
Agreement to regulate the The Directors are responsible for relationship between the two The Companys Annual General keeping proper accounting records companies after the completion of Meeting is held in London where which disclose with reasonable the Partial Offer in June 2000. members of the relevant committees accuracy at any time the financial Following the merger of Halifax and of the Board are available to discuss position of the Company and which Bank of Scotland on 10 September matters arising.
Where possible, enable them to ensure that the 2001, the Relationship Agreement timing and location of the meeting financial statements comply with the was novated to HBOS plc.
is designed to encourage the Companies Act 1985.
They have participation of small shareholders.
general responsibility for taking such The principal purpose of the steps as are reasonably open to them Relationship Agreement is to ensure Statement of Directors to safeguard the assets of the that the Company can operate Responsibilities Company and the Group and hence independently of the HBOS group Company law requires the Directors for taking reasonable steps for the and to provide that the relationship to prepare financial statements for prevention and detection of fraud between members of the HBOS each financial year that give a true and other irregularities.
group and the SJPC Group will be and fair view of the state of affairs of conducted on an arms length basis.
the Company and of the Group and The Directors consider that, in Under the Agreement, the HBOS of the profit or loss for that period.
preparing the financial statements on group has power to appoint a number In preparing those financial pages 42 to 79, the Group has of directors to the Board.
The statements, the Directors are used appropriate accounting policies, number varies in relation to HBOSs also required to: which have been consistently applied shareholding in the Company.
At and supported by reasonable and present, HBOS has exercised its right select suitable accounting policies prudent judgements and estimates, to appoint three non-executive and then apply them consistently: except as disclosed in note 2 on page directors.
make judgements and estimates 54, and that all applicable accounting that are reasonable and prudent: standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
PAGE 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Guidance issued in December Risk Management and The Directors and senior managers 2001 by the Association of British Internal Control of the Group are committed to Insurers entitled Supplementary The Directors are responsible for the maintaining a strong controls culture Reporting for Long Term Insurance Groups system of internal control within all business areas and have Business the Achieved Profits and for reviewing its effectiveness.
established processes for evaluating Method the guidance requires This includes financial, operational and managing the significant risks the Directors to prepare and compliance controls and risk faced by the Group.
In particular, the supplementary information presented management.
The Audit and Groups senior management adopts a under the Achieved Profits Method Compliance Committees along with risk management process that in accordance with the guidance.
an appropriately staffed and qualified identifies the key vulnerabilities and Internal Audit function support the risks facing each business area and In preparing the achieved profits Directors in the discharge of these reports, via the Group Risk supplementary information, the responsibilities.
Executive and internal audit, to the Directors are required to: Audit Committee on how these During the year in question, the risks and vulnerabilities are being select suitable methodologies and company formed the Group Risk managed.
The internal audit function then apply them consistently: Executive, which has the primary adopts a risk based approach, with determine assumptions on a objective of ensuring appropriate their work plans being derived from realistic basis, having regard to risk management policies, assessments of the key risks facing past, current and expected future procedures and processes are in place the business, adopted as necessary to experience and to any relevant to optimise business performance, to deal with any emerging issues.
external data, and then apply protect its assets and to meet its them consistently: regulatory obligations.
This group, The Groups senior management state whether applicable which consists of senior managers have clear defined responsibilities accounting standards have been and executives, meets quarterly and and accountabilities for managing followed in relation to the reports to the Managing Director.
specific areas of risk and these are residual assets, subject to any documented in individual job material departures disclosed and In establishing the system of internal descriptions.
These are subject to explained in the supplementary control, the Directors have regard to frequent review to ensure that they information: and materiality of relevant risk, the remain aligned with business prepare the supplementary likelihood of a risk occurring and the developments and any new or information on the going concern cost of mitigating risk.
It is therefore emerging risks.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to designed to manage, rather than presume that the Group will eliminate risk and as such can provide continue in business.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
PAGE 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued In addition to these ongoing Life Assurance Holding the Groups objectives: procedures, the Audit Committee, Corporation and Nascent the Groups brand and how its under instruction of the Board, Group SA integrity and value is maintained: conduct an annual review that As detailed in the Financial the Groups corporate culture: considers the effectiveness of the Commentary on page 12, the Group the Groups management style: Groups systems of internal control.
has an associated undertaking in Life how the Group deals with clients This includes the nature and scope of Assurance Holding Corporation and each other: and the ongoing monitoring processes, LAHC and a non-participating the Groups commitment to the including the internal audit function, investment in Nascent Group SA St. Jamess Place Foundation, and the potential impact on these Nascent.
Due to the limited nature more details of which can be processes as a result of any changes of these interests, LAHC and found on pages 96 and 97. during the year to the Groups Nascent have been specifically risk profile.
excluded from the scope of the The booklet emphasises the Groups system of internal control.
values of integrity, trust, openness, The Emerging Regulatory partnership and teamwork and is Environment The Group does, however, have designed to guide individual and Following recent corporate failures representation on both the Board corporate actions, decisions and in both the UK and US, coupled and Audit Committees of LAHC and standards.
with the move towards increased Nascent.
Based on reports submitted corporate accountability and to these committees, the Group is transparency, it is not surprising to not aware of any issues that would see the continued evolution of the have a material impact upon the regulatory environment in which we Group other than those reported operate.
In line with this evolution, elsewhere.
SJPC continues to remain committed to achieving high standards of Statement of Business Practice corporate governance.
In doing so it To further the Groups continued recognises the need to closely commitment to corporate monitor and assess the impact of governance, the Company has all regulatory pronouncements, published a statement of business consultative papers and review practice.
This statement, in the committees and where appropriate form of a booklet entitled Our take remedial action to maintain its Approach, is provided to all level of commitment.
employees and Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and covers areas such as: PAGE 25
