Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for ensuring proper The Board has appointed two committees of non-executive directors standards of corporate governance are maintained and for accounting with specific delegated authorities: the Remuneration Committee to shareholders.
and the Audit and Risk Committee.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Principles of Directors Remuneration Good Governance and Code of Best Practice in the Combined Code The Remuneration Committee determines the pay and benefits on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority of the executive directors, including the Chairman.
It consists exclusively the Combined Code.
It explains how the Company has applied these of non-executive directors.
The remuneration of all directors is subject principles throughout the financial year.
Following the Companys listing to regular monitoring to ensure that levels of remuneration and on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 31October 2002, the directors compensation are appropriate.
are also required to confirm that the Company has complied with the provisions of Appendix14 Code of Best Practice of the Listing Rules of The Remuneration Committee also acts as the Boards Nomination the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
The directors confirm that, throughout Committee to consider the appointment of new directors, before the financial year, the Company has complied with the provisions of the seeking the final approval of the whole Board.
Combined Code and Appendix 14 of the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors Stock Exchange except that the non-executive directors of the Company is included in the directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 56. have not been appointed for specific terms.
Following a review, the appointment of non-executive directors will now be for specific terms.
Accountability and Audit The Company has also not complied with the United Kingdom The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Lord Stewartby with three requirement in respect of executive directors notice periods following other non-executive directors as members.
The Committee receives a change of control as detailed on page 47. reports on the findings of internal and external audits and on action taken in response to these.
It meets with the Groups auditors when Directors appropriate and reviews the scope, findings and cost effectiveness of The full Board meets regularly, at least eight times a year, and has the audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
a formal schedule of matters reserved for it.
Two meetings a year It also considers changes to the Groups accounting policies and are usually held in countries where the Group operates outside the examines the annual and interim financial statements before the Board United Kingdom.
The directors use these overseas visits to meet staff, approves them.
Ultimate responsibility for the approval of the annual corporate customers and government ofcials.
and interim financial statements rests with the Board.
In addition, The directors are given appropriate and timely information so that they the Committee regularly reviews and reports to the Board on the can maintain full and effective control over strategic, financial, operational, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk compliance and governance issues.
The directors have a range of skills and experience and each brings Going Concern an independent judgement and considerable knowledge to the Boards The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Group has adequate discussions.
On appointment, each director receives information about resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this the Group and is advised of the legal, regulatory and other obligations of reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis when preparing a director of a listed company.
Directors may take independent professional the financial statements.
advice at the Companys expense, in appropriate circumstances.
All of the directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible Internal Control for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable laws The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its business and regulations are complied with.
The removal of the Company Secretary and financial activities in a manner which enables it to maximise would be a matter for the whole Board.
profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks which can cause The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
The loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance with applicable laws Board is made up of seven executive directors and eleven non-executive and regulations, and enhance resilience to external events.
Lord Stewartby is the senior non-executive director and the this, the Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation Deputy Chairman of the Board.
The Board considers that all of the and management of the risks faced by the Group which operated non-executive directors, with the exception of David Moir, are independent.
through the year ended 31December 2002 and to 19 February 2003, Mr Moir served as an executive director of the Company from January the date the Board approved this annual report and accounts.
It should 1993 until March 2000. be recognised that such a process can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process All directors are subject to periodic re-appointment in accordance is regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements with the Companys articles of association.
of the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
The system of internal control of the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
44 Standard Chartered The Financial Review on pages 24 to 39 describes the Groups risk The United Kingdom Combined Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules management structure.
The Groups business is conducted within require companies to post the notice of the annual general meeting a developed control framework, underpinned by policy statements, to shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
written procedures and control manuals.
This ensures that there are The Company aims to achieve this and will always give shareholders written policies and procedures to identify and manage risk including the 21days notice required by the United Kingdom Companies Act.
operational risk, balance sheet management, market risk and credit risk.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
The Board has established a management structure that clearly defines The Company displays the proxy voting results on each resolution roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are at the annual general meeting.
Executive Risk Committees regularly review the Groups risk prole.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities Standard Chartered complies with the guidelines issued by the Association The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and reporting to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends and on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters and is committed forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets and prior to the communities and environments in which it operates.
The Board periods are closely monitored.
Financial information is prepared is responsible for ensuring that high standards of responsible business using appropriate accounting policies which are applied consistently.
are maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
Operational procedures and controls have been established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and the Standard Chartered has established and maintains policies and safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate segregation procedures in relation to social, ethical and environmental related of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts, and the valuation risks.
Details of these policies can be found on the Companys website: of assets and positions.
Through the Groups risk management structure and control framework, the Board receives The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regular and adequate information to identify and assess significant risks regularly by the Board, its Committees, Group management, and Group and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
Group Audit monitors compliance with policies and standards are in place for key SEE issues, including arrangements for directors.
and the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Group.
The work of Group Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk as Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also work with line management to assist them in designing procedures to ensure determined by a risk assessment approach.
Group Audit reports regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee, the Chairman, and to the Group Chief compliance with these requirements.
In every country, the Country Executive.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Group Operational Risk Group CORG is responsible for ensuring there are risk Chief Executive and immediate corrective action is required.
management frameworks in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The Country Chief Executives chair CORGs.
Compliance with these The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the policies and procedures is the responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, Groups system of internal control during the year ended 31December incentivising and rewarding performance, new guidance to managers 2002 and reported to the Board.
The review was supported by an was published during 2002.
This explicitly states that account should annual business self-certification process which was managed by be taken of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including those Group Audit.
The Committee has also reviewed the recommendations associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging risks are for provisions against bad or doubtful loans and other credit exposures.
escalated to senior management through clearly documented internal reporting procedures such as CORG.
Group Audit monitors compliance Group Code of Conduct with policies and standards and effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to the control structures through its programme of business audits and annual lawful and ethical conduct of business.
These requirements are linked Turnbull Review.
to the Groups five core values.
The Group Code of Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees are expected to observe Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social issues high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff, and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
The Board and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
recognises its responsibility to manage these risks and that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse impact on the Groups Relations with Shareholders business.
These risks have always been implicitly recognised in reaching The Board recognises the importance of good communications with all lending decisions but are now explicitly identified in the Groups lending shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders policy.
The Group continues to strengthen its money laundering and general presentations are made when the financial results are prevention policies, procedures and training.
The annual general meeting is used as an opportunity The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
to communicate with all shareholders.
