Corporate governance The Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code are incorporated into the Listing Rules of the U. K. Listing Authority.
Section 1 of the Combined Code contains 14 principles of good governance and 45 code provisions which are applicable to listed companies.
The provisions of the Combined Code applicable to the Company are divided into four parts: Part A: Directors Part B: Directors Remuneration Part C: Relations with Shareholders Part D: Accountability and Audit Set out below is a statement of how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year.
Part A: Directors Board of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the board of directors.
The board has seven members: the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors.
One of the non-executive directors, Horst Rahe, is not considered to be independent on account of his interest in a deferred consideration arrangement relating to the Groups purchase of AIDA Cruises Limited, described in note 23 to the financial statements.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and no individual or group of individuals dominates the boards decision making.
The directors have wide ranging experience and all have occupied, or currently occupy, senior positions in industry or government.
In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The biographical details of the board members are set out on page 16.
On joining the board, directors are briefed on the Company and its activities.
Arrangements are made for senior executives not on the board to attend board meetings and make presentations on the results and strategies of their business units.
The non-executive directors other than Horst Rahe are independent of management and have no relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Sir John Parker was appointed Deputy Chairman on September 26, 2002, in succession to Peter Foy, and has been identified as the senior independent director.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each board and committee meeting.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if required.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
This includes the approval of annual and interim results, acquisitions and disposals, as well as material agreements, major capital expenditure, budgets and strategic plans.
Other matters are delegated to board committees including those detailed below.
Generally, the board meets monthly, but additional meetings were held during the year to consider the proposed transactions with Royal Caribbean and Carnival.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal committees of the Board, during 2002 together with details of attendance.
In addition to formal board meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain regular contact with all directors and hold informal meetings with the non-executive directors to discuss issues affecting the Company.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 17 4 5 1 Attendance: Lord Sterling 14 n a n a 1 Sir John Parker 16 3 5 1 Peter Ratcliffe 17 n a n a 1 Nick Luff 17 n a n a n a Baroness Hogg 16 4 4 1 Peter Foy 11 3 4 1 Horst Rahe 13 n a n a n a Principal Committees of the Board The following committees of the board, which have written terms of reference setting out their authority and duties, have operated throughout the year.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Chairman: Baroness Hogg Other members: Sir John Parker, Peter Foy The audit committee is scheduled to meet four times a year and at other times if required.
The Chief Financial Officer normally attends meetings at the invitation of the committee.
32 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Corporate governance The audit committee examines the process of financial reporting within the Group, reviews the Groups accounting policies and monitors the integrity of the financial statements.
It also reviews the Groups system of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The committee is responsible for the appointment of the independent external auditors, reviewing the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and monitoring the independence of the external auditors.
Further details of this are set out below.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the terms of reference and results of the work of the internal audit department.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Chairman: Peter Foy Other members: Baroness Hogg, Sir John Parker The remuneration committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year and at other times as required.
Executive directors are invited to attend for appropriate items but are excluded when their own performance and remuneration are under review.
The remuneration committee makes recommendations and approves on behalf of the board the salaries, incentives and other benefit arrangements of the Chairman and executive directors and oversees the Companys incentive schemes.
Fees payable to non-executive directors are determined by the board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE Chairman: Lord Sterling Other members: Baroness Hogg, Sir John Parker, Peter Ratcliffe, Peter Foy The nomination committee meets periodically as required.
Its function is to assess and recommend to the board candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
It makes recommendations to the board on its composition and balance and also reviews proposals for changes in responsibilities of directors.
Part B: Directors Remuneration The remuneration report is set out on pages 35 to 40 Part C: Relations with Shareholders The formal channels of communication by which the board accounts to shareholders for the overall performance of the Company are the annual report and accounts, the Form 20-F filed with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the yearly and quarterly announcements made through the stock exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss their views and to ensure that the strategies and objectives of the Company are well understood.
Issues discussed with institutional shareholders include the Companys performance, the impact of major transactions such as acquisitions or disposals and any corporate governance concerns.
Presentations are made to representatives of the investment community at appropriate intervals in the U. K. the U. S. and elsewhere and are simultaneously made available to shareholders by telephone and by live broadcast over the internet.
Annual General Meeting AGM The date, time and location of the third AGM of the Company have not yet been set, pending the outcome of the Extraordinary General Meeting convened to consider the proposed transaction with Carnival, which is expected to be held in April 2003.
The AGM will be held before July 31, 2003 and shareholders will receive notice of the meeting in due course.
Part D: Accountability and Audit Directors Responsibility The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements is set out on page 30.
Independence of Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending a firm of auditors of appropriate independence and experience and for the approval of all audit fees and terms.
The Committees policy is to undertake a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year which includes: a review of non-audit services provided to the Group and related fees: discussion with the auditors of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties that could affect independence or the perception of independence: a review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring the independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner: and obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that, in their professional judgement, they are independent.
2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 33 Corporate governance During the year, the Audit Committee implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditor.
These include: the maintenance of a schedule of certain non-audit services, including consultancy, investment banking and legal services, which the Company is specifically prohibited from obtaining from the audit firm: requiring the selection of providers of permitted non-audit services to be subject to a tender process, where appropriate: requiring non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance: and procedures which control, and in certain circumstances, prohibit, the recruitment by group companies of staff formerly employed by the external audit firm and involved in the audit of the group.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 3 to the accounts.
Going Concern On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management Internal control and risk management within the Groups business units is a well-defined, ongoing process embedded in each of the operations.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
A system of controls designed to be capable of responding quickly to evolving risks in the business has been established, comprising procedures for the prompt reporting of significant control weaknesses, together with the appropriate corrective action.
Each principal business activity is controlled by a local executive committee, which receives detailed reports so that issues can be discussed and corrective action determined at the appropriate level to remedy identified control weaknesses.
The executive committees are supported by risk management committees which focus on the business unit concerned but draw on Group-wide technical and auditing resources.
In addition to an internal audit function, such resources include specialised technical audit teams and centralised control of health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
The Group executive management team receives information on the issues arising at the business units, together with regular trading, operations, finance and business risk updates.
This is provided via formal reporting processes and the close involvement of relevant individuals in the management of the business units.
The primary focus of this aspect of the system are the executive directors, with a head office executive committee monitoring the process, ensuring that issues common to more than one business unit are identified and that all relevant matters are brought to the attention of the board as a whole.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control, but recognise that any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code The system of internal control was in place throughout the year and has continued in place up to the date of approval of this annual report.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The board confirms that it has reviewed its effectiveness and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Throughout the period from January 1, 2002 to the date of approval of the financial statements, P&O Princess Cruises plc has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Compliance with other Corporate Governance Requirements In addition to complying with the Combined Code, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, P&O Princess Cruises plc also complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the NYSE, the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other legislation applicable to overseas companies listed in the U. S. including the recently-enacted Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
These rules and regulations impose requirements on the Company related to good corporate governance practices.
