Corporate governance APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE Mr G J Allen is Chairman of the audit committee PRINCIPLES and is the senior independent director.
The Board attaches great importance to ensuring The content and presentation of Board papers that the Company operates to high ethical and circulated before each meeting contain sufficient compliance standards.
In addition, the Board seeks information on the financial condition of the to observe the principles set out by the Report of Company.
Key representatives of IIM attend each the Committee on Corporate Governance insofar as Board meeting enabling directors to probe on these are consistent with the Companys status and matters of concern or seek clarification on certain objectives as an investment trust.
The Company is headed by a Board comprised Given the nature of the Board, comprising entirely entirely of independent non-executive directors.
non-executive directors, there is no nomination There are no executive directors to monitor and committee, as recommended in the Code, but any accordingly large parts of the Combined Code on appointment will be a decision of the Board as a matters such as ensuring a clear division of whole.
There is a formal review procedure responsibilities at the head of the Company, a governing the appointment of new directors.
Upon balance of executive and non-executive directors appointment to the Board each director receives and issues relating to remuneration of executive relevant background information on the Company directors do not have any specific relevance to the together with a summary of the duties and Company.
There is, however, an assumption that any candidate considered suitable COMPLIANCE WITH THE DETAILED for appointment to the Board is already sufficiently PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE conversant with listed company requirements and Directors corporate governance procedures.
If not, additional Each of the directors is independent of any training and guidance will be provided by the association with the management company which Company Secretary.
might be perceived to interfere with the exercise of Directors are subject to election by shareholders at independent judgement.
the first AGM following their appointment and, There is a formal schedule of matters to be thereafter, are subject to retirement by rotation at specifically approved by the Board and individual intervals of no more than three years.
In addition, directors may seek independent advice at the the appointment of each director is reviewed by expense of the Company within certain limits.
other members of the Board every three years The Board has delegated the investment within the six month period before they are due to management, within clearly defined parameters and stand for re-election in general meetings.
Directors dealing limits, and the administration of the are not, therefore, subject to automatic rebusiness to Investec Investment Management appointment.
The Board makes all strategic Non-executive directors are not appointed for decisions, reviews the performance of the Company specified terms.
Because of the nature of an at Board meetings and sets the objectives for the investment trust the Board believes that the Managers.
contribution and independence of a director is not The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board, diminished by long service and, conversely, that a inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are more detailed knowledge of the Company and its followed and for compliance with applicable rules business has a beneficial impact.
and regulations including the Combined Code.
Relations with Shareholders Appointment or removal of the nominated The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM representative of the Corporate Company Secretary and encourages discussion on issues of concern or the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board areas of uncertainty.
Questions from shareholders as a whole.
All directors have access to the advice are welcomed.
In addition, special arrangements and service of the Company Secretary.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 18 Corporate governance continued have been established to allow Temple Bar Savings investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted Scheme investors to participate fully at annual to an independent reputable custodian with whom general meetings.
the holdings are regularly reconciled.
At general meetings the Chairman will announce The effectiveness of the overall system of internal the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
the balance for and against, after it has been dealt Such a system can provide only reasonable and not with on a show of hands.
A separate resolution will absolute assurance against material misstatement or be proposed at the AGM in respect of each loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust substantially separate issue.
There is also a separate framework of non-financial internal controls in resolution proposed in respect of the report and place to meet the requirements of the Code.
The Board receives reports from its advisers on In order to facilitate detailed discussion of key internal control matters and does not believe that issues, the notice of AGM is circulated to there is scope or necessity for an internal audit shareholders at least 20 working days before the function.
This matter is subject to periodic review.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all place for the reporting period and to the date of this documents released by the Company, including the report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in Annual Report, present a fair and accurate accordance with the Turnbull Committees assessment of the Companys position and guidelines.
The audit committee of the Company currently After making enquiries, the directors have a comprises the entire Board of six non-executive reasonable expectation that the Company has directors with all matters being referred to the full adequate resources to continue in operational Board for discussion and approval.
Members of the existence for the foreseeable future including audit committee are named in the report and recourse to a 7.5million overdraft facility with accounts.
The auditors are invited to attend the HSBC Bank.
Accordingly the directors continue to audit committee meeting at which the annual adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts are considered.
Socially Responsible Investment The directors are responsible for the Companys The Board believes that it is its primary duty to act system of internal control and for reviewing its in the best financial interests of the Company and its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the control shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the process the Board has requested the Managers to ethical stance of investee companies on matters confirm annually that they have conducted the such as the environment or society as a whole, the Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment regulatory obligations which apply to the Company returns for shareholders.
Accordingly, while the and to report on the systems and procedures within Board seeks to favour companies which pursue best Investec which are applicable to the management of practice in these areas this must not be to the Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven detriment of the return on the investment scheduled occasions in each year and at each portfolio.
The managers have the right to vote on meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical behalf of the Company if they believe it to be information to enable it to monitor adequately the appropriate, but any vote against the investment performance and status of the business.
recommendation of an incumbent Board requires The Board has also established a series of investment the consent of the Trusts own board.
parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of Temple Bar Investment Trust 19
