Corporate Governance Background When a director is appointed he or she is offered an induction The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are also how they have applied the principles and complied with the provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are Application of the Principles of the Code advised to the Board as they arise.
The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an investment trust company, Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election most of the Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with to third parties and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus not all the Companys Articles of Association, new directors stand for the provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and every director stands for re-election at intervals Directors of not more than three years.
The Board currently consists of eight non-executive directors, the majority of whom are independent of the Companys Manager The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive director.
Their biographical A senior non-executive director has not been identied as the details, set out on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, Board considers that all the directors have different qualities industrial, commercial and professional experience with an and areas of expertise on which they may lead when issues arise.
Accordingly, concerns can be conveyed to any one of them.
The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the Board Committees important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the The Board has established audit, management engagement and setting of parameters for and monitoring of investment strategy, nominations committees with dened terms of reference and together with the review of investment performance.
The membership of these committees is set out on page 2. has set limits on the concentration of investments, on the use of derivatives, on the lending of securities and on the extent to which The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of the annual borrowings may be used.
The application of these and other report and the interim report, the nature and scope of the restrictions, including those which govern the Companys tax external audit and the findings therefrom, and the terms of status as an investment trust, are reviewed regularly at meetings of appointment of the auditors, including their remuneration and the Board.
The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale the provision of any non-audit services by them.
It also meets of individual investments.
The Manager also ensures that all with representatives of the Manager and receives reports on directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling the directors to seek clarification on specic issues or to probe further on matters of The Management Engagement Committee is responsible for the concern.
Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board regular review of the terms of the management contract with have been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in the Manager.
the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The directors have The Nominations Committee is responsible for making access to the advice and services of the corporate company recommendations on the appointment of new directors.
Each secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible director is invited to submit nominations and external advisers to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
may be used to identify potential candidates.
The nominations 27 Corporate Governance continued list is considered by the Board as a whole in accordance with its chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the agreed procedures.
Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole considers the directors remuneration: The Manager has established an internal control framework to therefore it has not appointed a separate remuneration provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of the internal committee.
Because the Company is an investment trust controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the company and all its directors are non-executive, the Company internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance and is not required to comply with the provisions of the Code in risk department on an ongoing basis.
respect of the remuneration of executive directors.
The directors fees are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Internal Control 22 and 23.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Relations with Shareholders Company.
This process is subject to regular review by the Board The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on institutional shareholders and matters raised at these meetings the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull are reported to the Board.
The process was fully in place throughout 2002 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
In addition the The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged Board has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting.
Companys system of internal control, covering all the controls, The Annual General Meeting is chaired by the Chairman of including financial, operational and compliance controls and the Board and attended by the Chairman of the Audit and risk management.
This review took into account points raised Management Engagement Committees.
Details of the proxy during the year in the Boards regular appraisal of specic areas votes received in respect of each resolution are made available of risk.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of to shareholders.
Representatives of the Manager make a internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, presentation to the meeting.
The Company has adopted such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the a nominee share code which is set out on page 45. risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Accountability and Audit material misstatement or loss.
The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 29.
The report of the auditors is set The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review of out on page 30.
The Board has delegated contractually to external the Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded agencies, including the Manager, the management of the in a risk map.
The Board receives each quarter from the Manager investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company of risk, including those that are not directly the responsibility secretarial and administration requirements and the registration of the Manager, and which reports the details of any known services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the Manager a report on its internal controls a FRAG 21 report services offered, including the control systems in operation in which includes a report from the Managers auditors on the so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and to be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as management into the operations and culture of the Company required.
In addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the and its key suppliers.
