Corporate Governance Celltech is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2002, the Group has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance embodied in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, other than with regard to the notice period in Dr Fellners service contract.
Celltech maintains a good dialogue with shareholders and meetings are held with institutional shareholders throughout the year to discuss the progress of the Group.
Other means of communication include company presentations, press releases and interim and annual reports.
There is a company website www.
com which provides information on the Group.
Internal controls The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for Celltechs system of internal controls including financial control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The key procedures that the Directors have established are designed to provide effective internal control within the Group and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board has established a formal and continuous process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on key operational and financial matters.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that in light of the control procedures in place in the Company, there is no current requirement for a separate internal audit function.
They will continue to review the requirement for such a function on a periodic basis.
In performing a specific assessment for the purpose of this years annual report the Board appointed Ernst & Young to carry out an internal risk assessment process.
Celltechs internal control procedures include the following: Risk management The organisational structure includes individual reporting lines through to the Board.
A structure of management committees and management teams meet regularly to debate and resolve key issues including social, environmental and ethical issues, details of which are discussed below.
Compliance controls Documented quality procedures are in place to ensure the maintenance of global regulatory compliance.
These are subject to periodic review to ensure current standards of quality compliance are maintained.
A quality group monitors compliance with Good Laboratory Practice GLP, Good Clinical Practice GCP and Good Manufacturing Practice GMP through the implementation of an internal compliance programme for in-house activities and an external auditing programme for Contract Research Organisations CROs and contract manufacturing activities.
The Group also conducts annual regulatory compliance training initiatives.
A pharmacovigilance group monitors adverse events in support of the Groups marketed products and new product development programmes.
These are managed in accordance with formally documented procedures which comply with current regulatory requirements.
There is also a process for developing and maintaining risk management processes across the Group and a tactical plan in the US.
Where judged appropriate, Celltech collaborates with other large pharmaceutical companies regarding the development and marketing or comarketing of its product pipeline.
This approach serves to share the risk and also provide critical mass in areas which complement the Groups own infrastructure.
Financial The key procedures that the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal financial control are as follows: Policies and procedures are in place, including the documentation of key systems and rules relating to the delegation of authorities, which allow management to monitor controls and restrict the unauthorised use of assets.
Experienced and suitably qualified staff take responsibility for key business functions.
Annual appraisal procedures are established which ensure high standards of performance are maintained.
Budgets and long-term forecasts are prepared which allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities and risks and the progress towards financial objectives set for the year and the longer term.
Monthly management accounts are prepared promptly providing relevant, reliable and up to date information: significant variances from budget are investigated as appropriate.
Celltech Annual Report 2002 39 Corporate Governance continued Clear policies and authorisation procedures are in place for capital investment: major investment projects are subject to authorisation by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from management in order to provide reasonable assurance that control procedures are in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have been established for instituting appropriate action to correct weaknesses identified from the above reports.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a review of the effectiveness of internal control as it operated during the year.
Corporate social responsibility Celltech has long recognised the importance of good corporate governance in building a sustainable business.
Particular attention has recently been focused upon the impact of organisations on the environment, in addition to their social policies and business ethics.
These areas are commonly grouped under the heading of Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR, and Celltech believes that they are integral to the successful operation of the Group.
It recognises that within the Groups commitment to innovative drug discovery and development, there is also a responsibility to maintain a high standard of CSR.
Celltech is developing a strategy to ensure the Group is sustained in a socially responsible manner, thereby maximising the benefits for its stakeholders.
Celltech is also committed to the transparent reporting of progress against its CSR objectives to the broad range of stakeholders interested in different elements of its CSR activities.
These stakeholders include employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliers, and the local and scientific communities in which the Group operates.
In light of the broad range of areas the Group plans to report on, Celltech will shortly issue a more detailed report on its CSR activities, which will be available on the website www.
com or in hard copy from the Investor Relations department.
In order to demonstrate the integration of economic, social and environmental considerations in its daily operations with stakeholders, Celltech has provided an overview of key areas from the CSR programme in the following sections.
Celltech is collaborating with external advisors to ensure the CSR reporting continues to meet current requirements.
The intention is that the CSR programme will undergo an internal audit followed by independent verification.
The Group has nominated a CSR Steering Committee comprising members of the Executive Committee, including Ingelise Saunders, CEO Celltech Pharmaceuticals and Board representation from Peter Allen, Group Finance Director and Dr Melanie Lee, R&D Director.
Celltech, led by the CSR Steering Committee, aims to maintain high standards of CSR and operates a CSR policy, using management systems to ensure that: As a minimum, the Group meets existing standards and proposed legislation.
Health, safety and the environment issues remain critical to business operations.
Ethical issues are dealt with in accordance with the Code of Conduct and are managed transparently, in particular in the approach to marketing and clinical trials.
Employees remain a priority and individual talent is valued and developed.
Business practices are managed transparently and designed to deliver value to stakeholders.
Celltech makes a positive contribution to both the local and the scientific communities.
Group operations are managed in order to minimise social and environmental impact.
Celltech builds a culture in which all employees are attuned to CSR risks and opportunities, by way of education and communication.
The Celltech Board, Executive Committee and project leaders work continuously to identify and manage risk in each area of the business considering pharmaceutical, financial and employee health and safety risk prevention as priorities.
40 Celltech Annual Report 2002 Celltechs R&D-centred strategy focuses on areas of autoimmune diseases, inflammatory disorders and cancer.
The specific areas of biotechnology are generally considered to have a low adverse impact on the environment.
Notwithstanding this, Celltech management has, within the generally accepted principles of sustainability, identified three key areas that have the most significant impact on the sustainability of its business operations: Health, Safety and Environment HS&E ensuring the health and welfare of people, minimising utility usage, waste, and working towards a statement of intent for emissions.
Social focusing on people development and going about the business in an ethical fashion in line with the defined internal policy.
Economic investing in research and development activities to ensure a sustainable economic model and fair returns for shareholders.
These objectives are detailed further below.
The HS&E section provides an update following the HS&E Review published in 2002.
The CSR programme moving forward intends to evolve and develop the Social and Economic reporting alongside HS&E.
Celltech has in place management systems, where relevant, to collect key data.
As stated under Internal Controls page 39, the Board is responsible and regularly reviews these internal systems and by doing this continually identifies and evaluates significant risks within the Group.
More details on the structure of these systems can be found in the fuller CSR report.
Celltech also has an ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders to ensure that the scope and reporting of its CSR programme is relevant and meets their needs, and takes account of future potential changes in CSR reporting required by stakeholders or legislation.
Health, Safety and Environment Celltech continues to develop the strategy for HS&E, to build a positive culture of safe working and protection of the environment.
Celltech has an active HS&E Steering Committee which is made up of heads of key functions.
The two Directors responsible are, Dr Melanie Lee, R&D Director, and Ingelise Saunders, CEO Celltech Pharmaceuticals.
In order to meet the requirements of the policies for HS&E, the Group is: Improving and refining HS&E management systems.
Ensuring any significant risks to employees, neighbours and the environment are identified and control measures put in place to manage them.
Building a comprehensive audit programme to enable a critical appraisal to be made of the standard of HS&E performance.
Developing the network of HS&E advisors to management to ensure best practice.
Publishing HS&E guidance, policies and procedures on the Celltech intranet to ensure effective communication to all employees.
Safety statistics and indicators of environmental performance will be published in the detailed report on the Groups website in Summer 2003.
Special initiatives the Group is currently working on include: Managing occupational road risk to employees who drive in the course of their work.
Health and safety training for sales representatives.
Building partnerships with contractors to ensure that no one is harmed by their operations on the sites.
This involves auditing contractors before they are selected and constant monitoring throughout the period of work.
Relationships are terminated if contractors do not comply with the defined safe systems of work.
Mitigating the effects of land contamination caused by a previous owner of a Group site.
Training managers to manage the safety of their employees.
This has involved auditing major suppliers.
Celltech Annual Report 2002 41 Corporate Governance continued Social The discovery and development of new medicines has a crucial part to play in increasing the quality of life for patients with specific conditions.
The importance of Celltech in society is reflected in the Group Code of Conduct which outlines the vision to create an open and lively culture in which Celltech employees use and share information to help people understand their part in achieving the Groups objectives and the impact of their work in society.
This policy focuses on: The use of Site Committees, a global intranet site, company magazines and employee briefings to encourage collective and individual feedback on all aspects of the business.
Employee support programmes to provide confidential advice on all aspects of professional and personal life.
Flexible benefit packages, designed to be competitive within each of the Groups market places, to retain key staff and further individual careers.
The Group works to give each individual the opportunity to develop skills and knowledge.
Economic A key element of creating a sustainable business is investment in research and development activities to generate intellectual capital and property that lead to a long-term sustainable economic model, and provide fair returns for shareholders.
In addition, Celltechs business activities are inextricably linked with the Groups CSR obligations as the Company discovers and develops drugs in the core therapeutic areas of autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders and cancer.
These activities add value to society and increase quality of life for patients.
Celltech is committed to conducting its business in line with the Code of Conduct whilst minimising adverse environmental and social impacts.
Key elements of this strategy are: Sustaining a competitive level of R&D investment whilst maintaining a robust financial position.
Investing in new technology to ensure the Groups R&D efforts remain fully competitive.
Partnering for strength with major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies having complementary capabilities.
Operating risk management plans to ensure that each aspect of our business will operate safely.
Regular meetings of senior management both within areas of the Group and across the Group to resolve key business issues.
Ongoing monitoring of compliance across the business.
Documented quality procedures are in place to maintain current standards.
Board of Directors As at the 31 December 2002 the Board of Directors comprises three Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, including a NonExecutive Chairman.
Mr Hugh Collum and Mr John Baker are senior independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition and for the purposes of the Combined Code, Mr Newmarch, Professor Edwards, Dr Jaffe and Dr Read are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Tom Blundell chairs Celltechs Science Council.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Mr Rogerson was appointed an independent Non-Executive Director in March 2003.
His details are set out on page 28.
The Board provides effective leadership and manages overall control of the Groups affairs through the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and business plan, major capital expenditure, significant acquisitions and disposals, and approval of financial statements.
There are eight scheduled Board meetings each year and other meetings are held as necessary.
Chairman The Company expects to announce the appointment of a new Chief Executive shortly.
Upon his appointment, Dr Fellner will become Non-Executive Chairman.
The announcement regarding the appointment of Dr Fellner as Chairman was made prior to the publication of the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors in January 2003.
In view of the Higgs Report the Non-Executive Directors other than the current Chairman reviewed and confirmed the recommendation for Dr Fellners appointment, noting that: a At this important stage in the development of the Company, Dr Fellner brought a unique experience, knowledge and background of the Company.
The continuity he would provide would be of value to both the Board and shareholders particularly over the next few years.
42 Celltech Annual Report 2002 b The new Chief Executive is being recruited in full knowledge of the plans for the appointment of Dr Fellner as Chairman.
This has been a key influencing factor in the recruitment to the position of Chief Executive of a senior and highly qualified and experienced executive in the pharmaceutical industry.
The Board will consider the full recommendations of the Higgs Report over the coming year.
Board Committees The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit Committee has operated throughout the year and its current members are Mr Newmarch, Professor Edwards and Dr Read.
It is chaired by Mr Newmarch and normally meets twice a year.
The responsibilities of the Committee include a critical review of the annual and interim financial statements prior to their submission to the Board for approval and the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal control systems.
The external auditor attends its meetings and has the opportunity for private discussions with the Committee.
The Board notes the publication on 20 January 2003 of the report and proposed guidance for audit committees issued by the group appointed by the Financial Reporting Council and chaired by Sir Robert Smith.
The Board will give full consideration to the report during the coming year.
The Remuneration Committee has operated throughout the year and its current members are Mr Collum, Mr Jackson and Dr Jaffe.
The Committee, which is chaired by Mr Collum, meets not less than twice a year.
It seeks independent advice, where appropriate, for the purpose of determining all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, including the award of share options, the terms of their service agreements, and recommending to the board the fees paid to the Chairman.
The members of the Committee do not participate in determining or recommending their own remuneration or fees.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the joint recommendation of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
A Nomination Committee meets as appropriate.
The members of the Nomination Committee are Mr Jackson, Mr Baker, Mr Collum and Dr Fellner.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Jackson.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement and the Operational and Financial Reviews on pages 1 to 25 include a detailed review of the business and future developments.
A regular dialogue is maintained with institutional shareholders including presentations after the announcement of the preliminary results at the year-end and half-year.
Celltechs website is regularly updated with information on the Groups activities.
The AGM offers the Board the opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and their participation is welcomed.
The Chairmen of each of the Committees described above will ordinarily be available at the AGM to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 22 May 2003 can be found in the Circular enclosed with this report.
Going concern The Directors consider that the funds available to the Group are sufficient for its operations for the foreseeable future and have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
