corporate governance Corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors normally meet twice a year with the The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Chairman and Chief Executive to discuss and evaluate Board The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good and individual Directors performance and succession plans.
At governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles appropriate times the Chief Executive and then the Chairman of governance are applied to the Company.
Throughout the year the absent themselves so their performance can be assessed.
The Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the final discussion is led by the Senior Non-Executive Director and Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the Financial there is feedback to individuals.
Appointments to Executive Director are fully discussed by the The ICI Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman and Chief Executive with the Remuneration and Nomination the Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and four NonCommittee before a proposal is formally made to the Board by the Executive Directors including the Senior Non-Executive Director, Chairman of that Committee.
Possible new Non-Executive Directors Lord Butler.
Their biographies appear on page 33.
These demonstrate are suggested by all members of the Board against the requirements a range of business, financial and global experience, which is vital of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
to the successful direction of a multi-national company.
All the NonIn appropriate cases recruitment consultants are used to assist the Executive Directors are independent of management.
Possible candidates are discussed with all Directors before balanced both numerically and in experience.
any approach is made to them.
All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors Audit and internal control have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed In accordance with the guidance for directors on internal control by Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not The Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirm that there is a process only against the best long-term interests of shareholders, but also to for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the ensure that they take proper account of the interests of employees, achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The process has customers, suppliers and the many communities within which ICI been in place throughout 2002 and up to the date of approval of is represented.
The Non-Executive Directors also test fully the the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F, and accords with operational performance of the whole Group.
The Board has The Turnbull Guidance.
The effectiveness of this process has been prescribed reserved powers which reinforce its control of the reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee who report their findings Company.
There is a procedure for Directors to obtain independent for consideration by the Board.
professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the their duties as Directors.
effectiveness of the system of internal control include: To enable them to do this all Directors have full and timely access to Discussions with management on risk areas identified by all relevant information.
The Board meets at least eight times a year management and or the audit process: and there is frequent contact between meetings to progress the Companys business.
The review of internal and external audit plans: The Non-Executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate The review of significant issues arising from internal and external accountability.
The remits and memberships of the three relevant audits: and Board Committees are set out on page 36.
The Remuneration and The review of significant Group risks reported by the Group Risk Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee, which comprise Committee.
solely Non-Executive Directors, meet at least quarterly and report regularly to the Board.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of their review of the risk assessment process.
The Board then draws its collective Remuneration and Nomination Committee conclusions as to the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are in attendance at the Remuneration and Nomination Committee for appropriate items but The Group Risk Committee GRC consolidates and prioritises for are always excluded when their own performance and remuneration the Board the inputs received from management of the Businesses are under review.
The Chairman is not a member of the Remuneration and corporate functions.
The GRC comprises the heads of major and Nomination Committee except when it meets as the Nomination corporate functions, the Group Internal Auditor and the General Committee.
He attends all remuneration discussions except when Counsel.
The GRC meets on a regular basis to review updated his own position is being discussed.
The Chairman from time to time input from business and corporate management and to report its promotes discussion with the Executive Directors about Nonconclusions to the Audit Committee.
Executive Directors remuneration based on external comparisons.
The internal audit function reviews internal controls in all key activities Any recommendations are tabled to the full Board.
Non-Executive of the ICI Group, typically over a three year cycle.
It acts as a service Directors have the option of taking part of their remuneration in the to the Businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement Companys shares.
Actions are agreed in response to The Remuneration Report, on pages 38 to 46, includes details its recommendations and these are followed up to ensure that on remuneration policy and practices, and on the remuneration satisfactory control is maintained.
Quarterly reviews are also of Directors.
conducted between internal audit management and the senior management of the Businesses and major functions to assess Lord Butler acts as the Companys Senior Non-Executive Director.
their current control status and to identify and address any areas In this position he promotes discussion at appropriate times about of concern.
the Company chairmanship and succession to it.
35 corporate governance The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the Disclosure controls and procedures effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The internal In accordance with recommendations issued by the US Securities and control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs Exchange Commission, the Company has established a Disclosure and the risks to which it is exposed and are designed to manage Committee comprising appropriate senior executives from the ICI rather than eliminate the risk to the achievement of business Corporate Centre: the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, the objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Company Secretary, the Group Internal Auditor, the Investor Relations assurance against misstatement or loss.
Director and the Group Financial Controller.
The Committee designs, maintains and evaluates the Companys disclosure controls and The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, procedures and reports its evaluation to the Chief Executive and and the Executive Management Team considers the strategy for the Chief Financial Officer.
individual Businesses through an integrated disciplined process on a Principles of business conduct biennial basis.
As a leading international company, ICIs reputation for high ethical Annual plans and performance targets for each Business are set by standards is central to its business success.
A Code of Business the Chief Executive and are reviewed in total by the Board in the light Conduct which provides guidance in this area has been of the Groups overall objectives.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success Communications of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Such processes, which are reviewed and improved as necessary, Annual Review is sent to shareholders and a full Annual Report and include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the Accounts and Form 20-F is available on request.
In addition, at the regular monitoring of performance, control over capital expenditure half year, an interim report is produced and sent to shareholders and and investments and the setting of high standards and targets for the quarterly results are published via the London Stock Exchange safety, health and environmental performance.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to question the Chairman directly.
As an Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by the alternative, shareholders can leave written questions for response by Board, the management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the the Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can Executive Management Team.
The conduct of ICIs Businesses is meet informally with the Directors.
There is regular dialogue with delegated to the individual Executive Vice Presidents.
They are individual institutional shareholders as well as presentations to accountable for the conduct and performance of their Businesses analysts after the quarterly results.
within the agreed Business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by Membership of the Board Committees and a summary of their terms of the Board and to Group policies.
reference are as follows: Businesses are responsible for meeting the defined reporting Audit Committee timetables and compliance with Group accounting manuals which Members: set out accounting policies, controls and definitions.
Mr J T Gorman Chairman Mr A Baan The Executive Management Team receives a monthly summary Lord Butler of financial results from each Business, and the Groups published Mr R N Haythornthwaite quarterly financial information is based on a standardised and timely Terms of reference: reporting process.
To assist the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities for corporate There is a process in place which requires post event reviews to be governance, financial reporting and corporate control.
undertaken following the completion of all major investments.
This Remuneration and Nomination Committee process aims to improve the quality of business judgements through Members: the understanding and experience gained.
Mr R N Haythornthwaite Chairman Mr A Baan Responsibility for monitoring compliance with Group policies and Lord Butler guidelines rests with the Executive Vice Presidents and Chief Mr J T Gorman Executive Officers for operating Businesses and with senior managers Lord Trotman when meeting as the Nomination Committee for the Corporate Centre.
Annual statements of compliance are Terms of reference: provided to the Board, and these statements are reviewed by the To recommend to the Board the remuneration policies for Executive Directors relevant functional leader for each policy area.
In turn, there is an and the most senior management in the Company.
To determine the annual report to the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the remuneration of these executives and to exercise the powers of the Directors under the share option schemes.
To propose to the Board new appointments of degree of compliance with Group policies and guidelines.
to any weaknesses found are monitored and controls are developed to match changing circumstances.
Appeals Committee Members: Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Mr T A Scott Chairman The Company monitors its legal and regulatory obligations following Lord Butler the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the United States.
It is Mr R N Haythornthwaite the Companys intention to comply with the legal and regulatory Terms of reference: requirements introduced pursuant to this new legislation, in so far To determine the policy and practice for the making of charitable donations in the UK.
as they are applicable to the Company.
36 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002
