Report of the Directors Report of the Audit Committee 61 The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever External Auditors Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities regarding the The report from  conrming integrity of Unilevers financial statements, risk management their independence and objectivity was reviewed by the and internal control, compliance with legal and regulatory Committee.
It also reviewed the audit, audit-related, tax and requirements, the external auditors performance, consulting services provided by , qualications and independence, and the performance and compliance with Unilevers policy, introduced in January of the internal audit function.
During the year ended 2002, under which the types of engagements for which the 31 December 2002 the principal activities of the Committee external auditors can be used are prescribed.
were as follows: The Committee oversaw the external auditor tender process Financial Statements which was conducted during the year, and made its formal The Committee considered reports from the Financial recommendation to the Board, which was adopted.
See Director on the quarterly and annual financial statements.
page 45 for further details of the tender.
It also reviewed proposed changes in accounting principles in response to the changes in Netherlands, UK and US law Internal Audit Function and UK GAAP.
The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, Audit of the Annual Accounts together with its budget and resource requirements.
, Unilevers external auditors, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and Audit Committee Charter outcome of the annual audit, and managements response.
The Committees charter has been updated to reect recent Their reports included accounting matters, governance and developments in corporate governance in the UK, the control, and accounting developments.
European Union and the US.
The revised charter enhances the Committees role and responsibilities, and in particular Risk Management and Internal Control Arrangements makes it responsible for overseeing Unilevers relations with The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk the external auditors.
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure, including specically: The Audit Committee Charter can be viewed on Unilevers external website at www.
Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of Risk Management & Control, and managements response.
The Corporate Risk Committees annual report, which included its recommendation for the Board's statement on internal control, its analysis of the 2002 risk assessment process, and the corporate risks identied for 2003.
The reports from the Code of Business Principles Compliance Committee.
Controls over trade marketing investments.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
