Corporate Governance THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 59 Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the for making recommendations to the Board In compliance with the provisions of Code of Best Practice on all new Board appointments consists the Combined Code, the Board continuously The Company has complied throughout of the four non-executive directors together reviews the effectiveness of the Groups the year with the Provisions of the Code with Mr John Ritblat and Mr Weston Smith.
The key features of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Mr Higgs is Deputy Chairman.
Mr Cassidy of the internal control system that operated Combined Code except that during the year is the Senior non-executive director and throughout the period covered by the the Company did not have as an objective is Chairman of the Remuneration and accounts are described below: the reduction of directors service contracts Nomination Committees.
Mr Swannell is to one year.
This is now an objective see Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Identification and evaluation of Remuneration Report.
Under the Articles of Association of the business risks and control objectives Company, each director retires at the third The Group has undertaken a comprehensive Board effectiveness annual general meeting after the general risk assessment, involving analysis and The directors listed on page 54 constituted meeting at which he was last elected.
management of the key risks to the Group.
the Board throughout the year except that The responsibility for each risk considered Mr. G. C. Roberts was appointed on Remuneration policy has been clearly identified, and the nature of 2 January 2002.
The Board has a regular Details of the Group remuneration policy each risk and the way it is managed within schedule of meetings together with further are set out in the Remuneration Report the Group has been considered by the meetings as required by the ongoing on pages 64 to 65.
Board, the Audit Committee and the business of the Company.
There is a formal operational boards throughout the year.
schedule of matters reserved for Board Relations with Shareholders decision.
Directors meet institutional shareholders Control environment The Companys management structure and analysts to discuss objectives both The management of each key risk has is influenced by British Lands nature as an in one to one and group meetings.
been delegated by the Board to executive entrepreneurial property company.
As such The Annual General Meeting not only directors and senior executives within the it is a capital rather than people intensive deals with the formal business of the Group.
The executive directors have close business with assets under management Company but provides shareholders with involvement with the day-to-day operational in excess of 11 billion, managed by a Group the opportunity to hear and question the matters of the Group.
Chairmans views on the business and In addition to the main Board of Entrepreneurial success requires speed of an explanation of the Groups performance Directors, there are operational boards which action to catch the moment in the markets over the last year in detail.
are responsible for specific areas of the to buy or sell property, to raise funds on the The Annual and Interim Reports Groups activities.
This necessitates a close are drafted to present balanced and group management and operations: interlinking of strategic decision making and understandable assessments of the financing activities: implementation of transactions.
John Ritblat Companys position and prospects.
management of property assets: and leads this process as Chairman and management of development activities.
Managing Director, which the Board Internal control The Board and the operational boards considers has provided long-term The directors are responsible for the consider the risk implications of business entrepreneurial performance maintenance by the Group of a sound decisions.
These include matters such for shareholders.
Examples are the food system of internal control.
The Board as new treasury products and major superstore leasebacks, the acquisitions of continues to apply the internal control transactions.
The control environment is Broadgate and of Meadowhall, the creation provisions of the Combined Code through a supported by the various committees of the of nearly 3.39 billion of joint ventures, the continuous process for identifying, evaluating Board and the operational boards, including innovative 2.94 billion securitisations, and and managing the significant risks the Group the Audit Committee, the Environment the acquisition and realisation of investments faces.
The process has been in place from Committee and the Derivatives Committee.
the start of the year to the date of approval As required for Combined Code of this report and is in accordance with Information systems compliance in companies where the chairman Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The Group has the following key information and managing director roles are combined, the Combined Code published in September systems which generate reports as follows: there is a clear division of responsibilities at 1999.
The Board is responsible for the a management reporting system which the head of the company as shown in the Groups system of internal control and for includes regular working capital reports details of directors on page 54, and a strong reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is and forecasts: and independent non-executive element designed to manage rather than eliminate regular reporting to the Board on on the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration the risk of failure to achieve business property purchases, sales and portfolio Committees were entirely composed of objectives, and can only provid`e reasonable management: and independent non-executive directors.
The and not absolute assurance against material regular reporting to the Board on Nomination Committee which is responsible misstatement or loss.
60 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Control procedures state whether applicable accounting except in rare circumstances, and then The Groups internal control procedures standards have been followed, subject to only after consideration that they are best include the following: any material departures disclosed and placed to provide the service and that explained in the financial statements: and their independence and objectivity would control of expenditure and progress on prepare the financial statements on the not be compromised.
development projects: going concern basis unless it is An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is benchmarking of property performance: inappropriate to presume that the Group set out on page 74. a detailed authorisation process which will continue in business.
The Company employs Atis Real Weatheralls ensures that no commitments are entered The directors are responsible for ensuring formerly Weatherall Green & Smith as into without competent and proper that proper and adequate accounting External Valuers to provide an independent authorisation by more than one approved records have been maintained and that valuation for accounting purposes of the executive: reasonable procedures have been followed Groups properties and their report for the a defined schedule of matters reserved for for safeguarding the assets of the Group and wholly owned properties is produced on decision by the Board: for preventing and detecting fraud and other page 49.
CB Richard Ellis BV and Jones continuous assessment of risks facing the irregularities.
Lang Lasalle value the Groups overseas Group: and The directors are also responsible for the properties.
The instructions to Atis Real regular reporting of control matters by the Groups system of internal controls, which Weatheralls are in accordance with the Head of Internal Control.
is designed to meet the Groups particular Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Institution of Chartered Surveyors and Monitoring appear at page 52.
Atis Real Weatheralls The Audit Committee and the Board meet Auditors and Valuers do not act in any other material capacity for regularly throughout the year and have The Audit Committee meets with the auditors British Land and their fees for other services reviewed the Groups internal controls and at least three times a year to discuss with are less than 5% of their fees for valuation the possibility of a need for an internal audit them the scope and conclusions of their services.
The Committee is specifically charged The arrangements with auditors and under its terms of reference with considering valuers have been approved by the Audit Going concern matters relating to the audit appointment, the Committee and are regularly reviewed After making enquiries and examining major independence and objectivity of the auditors, in the light of changing requirements areas which could give rise to significant and reviewing the results and effectiveness and best practice.
financial exposure, the directors are satisfied of the audit.
that no material or significant exposures With respect to other services, provided by exist other than as reflected in these the auditors the following framework is in place: financial statements and that the Group has adequate resources to continue its Audit related services the auditors are operations for the foreseeable future.
For this one of a number of firms providing audit reason they continue to adopt the going related services, which include formal concern basis in preparing the accounts.
reporting relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and Statement of Directors responsibilities various other regulatory reports and work The directors are required to prepare in respect of acquisition and disposals.
financial statements which comply with the Where they must carry out the work Companies Act 1985 on a going concern because of their office or are best placed basis unless inappropriate and which give to do so, the auditors are selected.
In a true and fair view of the state of affairs of other circumstances the selection the Company and the Group as at the end depends on which firm is best suited.
of the financial year and of the profit for that Tax Advisory The auditors are one of a period.
In preparing those financial number of firms that provide tax advisory statements, the directors are required to: services, including the preparation and submission of tax returns.
The selection select suitable accounting policies depends on who is best suited in the and then apply them consistently: circumstances.
make judgements and estimates that General Consulting the auditors do are reasonable and prudent: not provide general consultancy services Corporate Governance
