CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice Board committees The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board has established and delegated specic responsibilities to the and responsiveness to stakeholder expectations.
This statement and the following committees.
remuneration report on pages 20 to 22 describe how the Company has applied the principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice The Remuneration Committee:- appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Maxwell Bird Chairman, Michael Abrahams, Sean Christie, Dr Michael Edwards.
The Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year with the following exceptions:- The report of the Remuneration Committee and details of its role are given on pages 20 to 22. i. a number of the Non-Executive Directors are not wholly independent: ii.
the composition of the Remuneration Committee: The Audit Committee:- iii.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specic terms.
Sean Christie Chairman, Michael Abrahams, Fred Beedle, Dr Michael Edwards.
Mr M Bird and Mr F Beedle were, throughout the year, serving Councillors The Audit Committee supports the Board in the execution of its nominated by the Companys major shareholder, Kingston upon Hull City responsibilities to establish and monitor financial reporting and internal Council.
They are therefore not wholly independent under corporate control procedures.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year, with governance guidance.
Consequently the Remuneration Committee does the external auditors in attendance.
The Chief Financial officer attends by not consist solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees terms of reference comply with the Combined responsibility for the City Councils shareholding is delegated to a wholly Code.
In addition, the Committee monitors the Companys relationship separate Council Committee on which neither Mr Bird and Mr Beedle sit with its external auditors.
The Board is therefore satisfied that in practice they bring a valuable and independent view to its deliberations.
As a Director of The Nomination Committee:- Spectrum Strategy Consultants Ltd with whom the Company placed Michael Abrahams Chairman, Sean Christie, Dr Michael Edwards, Steve Maine.
a significant contract the year before, Mrs J Hughes is not wholly independent under the principles of the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Board of Directors All Directors are required to stand for re-election every three years.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Non-Executive Directors re-appointment is subject to consideration Chief Financial officer, and five Non-Executive Directors.
The proportion by the Nomination Committee, prior to Board approval.
of Non-Executive Directors complies with the Combined Code.
The Board considers the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors to be Internal Control sufficient such that no individual or Group may dominate its decisions.
Turnbull compliance The Boards Non-Executive Directors are independent of management The Board, as required by the Financial Services Authority, discloses that it and have a range of experience covering corporate governance, strategy, has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on internal control business operations and finance issues.
The roles of Chairman and Chief having established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance Executive officer are clearly dened and separate.
Mr S Christie is the issued in September 1999 the Turnbull committee report and by reporting senior Non-Executive Director.
in accordance with that guidance.
The Board meets monthly, and on other occasions as required.
All Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal receive detailed reports and brieng papers in advance of Board meetings.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it to is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal ensure retention of full responsibility for, and effective control over, Group control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure strategy and policy.
These matters include strategic plans, annual budgets, to achieve business objectives.
review of operating and financial performance, individual appraisal of significant new projects, risk management policies, funding, health and The Groups management operates a risk management process, which safety and environmental compliance.
All Directors may receive identies, evaluates and manages the key risks faced by each business and independent financial advice at the Companys expense, and have access reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
This is based to the Company Secretary for advice.
Opportunities for training are available on each business producing a database of its key risks which identies the to the Board.
All Directors are responsible equally for the Groups affairs: probability of the risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions Non-Executive Directors have particular responsibility for ensuring that being taken to manage them to the desired level.
The key risks identied proposed business projects and strategies are discussed and reviewed fully.
are mapped to business objectives and to the controls in place to manage those risks.
The business risk databases are reviewed and updated quarterly Responsibility for managing the business, implementation of business policy by business management and are reported to the Board and Executive and review of business performance is delegated to the Chief Executive Committee.
A Group risk database and map is produced annually which officer supported by a committee of senior executives.
That executive identies the key risks facing the Groups objectives across all its divisions.
committee meets at least monthly.
The Board reviews the Group and business risk databases and receives The record of Directors attendance at meetings is set out below.
regular reports on any material events which affect the Groups rating of its key risks.
There is a programme of regular presentations by business Number of unit Managing Directors of their businesses risk reports to the Board.
The Directors meetings % risk assessment process is regularly reviewed by Internal Audit.
The Board is satisfied that the system of internal control and risk management is Michael Abrahams 11 100 embedded in the routine of management decision making and reporting, Steve Maine 11 100 is being appropriately used to direct resources to the areas of significant Ian McKenzie resigned 31 March 2002 10 91 risk and is making a positive contribution to the achievement of the Malcom Fallen 11 100 Groups objectives.
Fred Beedle 7 64 Maxwell Bird 11 100 Organisation Sean Christie 11 100 The Board concentrates mainly on strategic, directional and financial Dr Michael Edwards 8 73 performance.
It aims to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure proper Mrs Janice Hughes 6 55 accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
It establishes policies for compliance with statutory obligations, ethical behaviour, health and safety, social contribution and environmental compliance.
There is a clearly dened organisational structure throughout the Group with established reporting responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
18 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 Financial information and control and obtain feedback.
The Group has published detailed financial and The Groups businesses budget on an annual basis, and these budgets operating data each quarter.
are updated at least on a quarterly basis.
The performance of businesses against these forecasts is monitored by the Executive management and the The Company has an investor relations function which aims to Board.
Key financial and non-financial information is reviewed by the Board improve communications between the Company and its shareholders.
monthly in order to monitor performance against objectives.
There is an Private investors may obtain information on the Groups strategy and established investment evaluation process to ensure Board approval for performance from the Companys website at www.
com, which all major capital expenditure commitments.
includes details of press releases and copies of presentations given at analysts briengs.
Copies of the Groups financial reports may Monitoring of controls also be found on the website.
The Group has an internal audit function.
Its work supports the Directors in assessing key controls through a structured work programme.
There The Board considers that the Companys Annual General Meeting are established procedures for appraisal and authorisation of capital AGM represents a forum for communication between the Companys expenditure and other transactions.
For those unable to attend the AGM during a working day the Company holds an informal evening brieng Any system of internal financial control can, however, only provide meeting.
The Companys Chairman and Directors will be available to answer reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
questions at the Shareholder Brieng and AGM.
The Board has sought to encourage Shareholder participation by inviting questions in advance and Appointment of auditors to non-audit engagements referring minority interest questions for later detailed response.
Details of The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate of independence on the part of the auditors when engaged on notice of the AGM sent to all shareholders.
The Board Audit Committee has adopted a policy to define the Groups engagement with the auditors and other accounting rms on non-audit assignments.
The policy categorises non-audit engagements as follows:- Auditor preferred services those engagements where there would be a loss of shareholder value if the auditors did not carry out the work.
Auditor restricted services those engagements which the Audit Committee does not consider appropriate for the auditors to undertake.
Auditor authorised services those engagements where it may or may not be appropriate to engage the auditors.
The policy defines by type and value of assignment where the engagement of the auditors or another accounting rm requires the prior approval of the Audit Committee, where management may exercise their discretion and the framework for reporting appointments to the Committee.
The categories and criteria adopted include a shareholder value analysis which assesses various criteria such as, price and relevant experience.
The framework is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Going concern Under corporate governance requirements, the Directors confirm that, having reviewed the Groups budget and forecasts for 2002 03, they consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the accounts, the Directors have:- selected suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently: and made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Relations with shareholders The Company is committed to establishing constructive relationships with investors.
Senior Directors led by the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, hold meetings throughout the year with the Companys principal shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and performance, Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 19
