Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and has complied throughout the period under review with the applicable principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Listing Requirements, save as detailed below: The executive directors have rolling service contracts with notice periods of between six months and two years Code provision B.
The Board believes that service contracts with notice periods in excess of one year are in line with comparable agreements within the industry and reflect the particular contribution and expertise of the executive directors in question.
For part of the year Lord Sharman and John Amerman had no specific term of appointment Code provision A.
This situation has now been remedied with both directors having three year terms of appointment.
The Board currently has 11 directors, comprising six executive directors and five non-executive directors.
All of the current non-executive directors are independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
John Amerman has been nominated as the senior independent director to whom shareholders may convey any concerns in the event that they do not wish to involve either the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required.
The Board meets at least seven times a year, and more frequently when business needs require.
One meeting is devoted entirely to the development of the Companys strategy.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three year period all directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
The Board has appointed the following committees, all of which have written terms of reference setting out their authority and duties: Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Robert Lerwill chairman, John Amerman, Bernard Fournier and Lord Hannay.
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend all meetings.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings.
The Committee has, and also uses, the opportunity to meet with the auditors, without management present.
The Committee meets three times a year: To review the half-year interim results and the findings of the auditors review and to discuss the scope of the current year full audit: To review internal risk management and controls: and Before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results to review the years results and audit findings.
In addition the Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors appointment, monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services is given in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy applied by the external auditors concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the external auditors.
During the year the Board tasked the Audit Committee, with the assistance of external advisors, to undertake an investigation into the strength of current procedures within the Group for internal risk management and control.
The key recommendations from this review are detailed further under the section on Internal Control and Risk Management on page 27.
26 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Hannay chairman, John Amerman and Bernard Fournier and meets periodically as required but not less than twice a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy regarding executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to him.
Similarly, the Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee but may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee will also be empowered to approve awards under the proposed new Executive Share Option Scheme and Performance Share Plan.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Lord Sharman.
The Committee meets as and when necessary and has responsibility for reviewing the board structure, size and composition, and for identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment as directors.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
As outlined in the section describing the activities of the Committee on page 26, a detailed review of internal risk and control processes was undertaken, with the assistance of external advisors, during the year.
The recommendations from this review were that the Company should: formulate a Group Risk Policy and create a Group Risk Committee: appoint a Group Risk Manager: introduce a formal Risk Self Assessment system for use around the Group: retain and extend the existing financial peer group review processes to cover all critical internal controls: and consider initiating a whistleblowing procedure.
Following recommendation from the Audit Committee the Board instructed that these matters be implemented and a Risk Committee has been formed in the first quarter of 2003.
The Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, a newly appointed Group Risk Manager, senior representatives of key Group functions and a senior operational executive from each of Carat and Synovate.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and will also report the outcome of the Risk Committee meetings.
The Board receives the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and will also receive the minutes of the Risk Committee meetings.
The Groups management operates a risk management process which identifies the key risks facing each business unit and major project and reports on how those risks are being managed.
27 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance continued The key procedures in place are as follows: a The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective supervision over appropriate controls.
The Groups strategic direction is reviewed annually by the Board and the Chief Executive Officer together with the executive directors consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
b The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the executive directors and reviewed by the Board in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
The division of responsibility at Board level is achieved by the appointment of a non-executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
Management of the Groups day-to-day activities is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors and they review on a regular basis any significant risks which the business faces.
c Each operations chief executive officer is responsible for: i the conduct and performance of their business: ii ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place: iii meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and controls: and iv signing-off their accounts on a monthly basis subject to the limitations set by the annual business strategy and the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board.
d The Board receives, on a monthly basis, financial results from each business and the Group reports bi-annually to shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
e The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and receives reports from the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance and the external auditors on a regular basis.
f The internal financial control system is reviewed by Group Finance which operates on a global basis and reports to management and the Audit Committee.
Group Finance and the external auditors also co-ordinate their work to the extent necessary for the external auditors to express their audit opinion on the Groups report and accounts.
g There is a clearly defined framework for approving all acquisitions, new and renewing leases, major capital projects and expenditure within the Group.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These processes accord with provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
Going concern Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders Good relations with shareholders are of prime importance to the Company.
Formal presentations are made to institutional investors and brokers analysts after the release of the Groups interim and final results.
Individual meetings are held during the year to ensure that the strategies and objectives of the Company are well understood.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman or the Board directly including the chairmen of the Board Committees.
Shareholders may also discuss any issues on an informal basis following the conclusion of the Meeting.
Published information, including press releases, is available on the Aegis website www.
John Ross Company Secretary 26 March 2003 28
