20 Computacenter plc Corporate governance statement 1 Compliance statement Principal Board committees The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Board has delegated certain duties to several committees governance throughout the Group and supports the principles each with specific terms of reference, the main responsibilities set out in the Principles of Good Governance and Code of and composition of which are set out below: Best Practice the Combined Code.
Other than where detailed in this report, the Company has throughout the Audit Committee financial year complied with the provisions as set out in Chairman: Nick Cosh section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee comprises Nick Cosh, Peter Ogden and Cliff Preddy and meets at least four times a year.
The 2 Board of Directors Chairman, the Group Finance Director and the external auditor The Board of Directors comprises three Executive Directors attend all meetings.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling and four Non-Executive Directors two of whom, Nick Cosh its responsibilities by reviewing a wide range of matters including and Cliff Preddy, are independent and free from any business the Groups annual and interim financial statements and or other relationships which could materially interfere with accompanying reports to shareholders, the preliminary the exercise of their judgement.
Mr Cosh was appointed as announcement of results and any other public announcement Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2002, regarding financial information.
In addition it reviews and advises replacing Adrian Beecroft who resigned as a Director in the Board on the scope, cost effectiveness and result of January 2002. the audit as well as the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The volume of non-audit services provided is also The Directors biographies appear on page 18. reviewed to ensure both objectivity and value for money.
The Committee also reviews reports presented by Internal Audit The Board is chaired by an Executive Director, Ron Sandler, and by the Risk and Insurance Department regarding significant and the Chief Executive is Mike Norris.
There is a clear division operational risks and controls.
of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the running of the Groups day-to-day business with the Chairman Nomination Committee responsible for the former and the Chief Executive the latter.
Chairman: Ron Sandler No individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Board The Committee meets as required and comprises the believes that an effective balance of power and authority is Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
maintained through the number and calibre of the Non-Executive Its responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, Directors who represent a source of strong independent advice size and composition and nominating candidates for and judgement.
The Board is aware that Section A.
3.2 of the appointment to the Board.
Combined Code requires that a majority of Non-Executive Directors be independent.
Nevertheless, being mindful of the Remuneration Committee recommendations of the Higgs Report published in January Chairman: Cliff Preddy 2003 and the Groups increasing presence in continental The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year Europe, the Board has decided to defer the appointment and comprises Cliff Preddy and Nick Cosh with Philip Hulme of a further independent Non-Executive Director pending and Peter Ogden acting as non-voting special advisers.
an assessment of the skills and experience required.
The Committee determines the Companys general policy on executive remuneration and the specific packages for There were seven scheduled Board meetings during 2002 the Executive Directors.
The Committee also monitors and and other meetings were held as necessary.
The Board has reviews the terms and conditions of the Executive Directors a documented schedule of matters reserved to it, including the service agreements and determines the grant of share approval of major capital expenditure and the agreement of options to Executive Directors and senior employees.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of Alan Pottinger, Company Secretary, who is 3 Directors remuneration responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
To in the Directors remuneration report on pages 22 to 24. enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
These ordinarily include a 4 Relations with shareholders detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters The Company has regular dialogue with institutional where the Board will be required to make a decision or give shareholders other than during closed periods and its approval.
Reports are given to the Board on such matters communication with shareholders generally is given a as trading outlook, acquisitions and insurance, and specific high priority.
In addition to mandatory information, a full business presentations are given where appropriate.
The and balanced explanation of the business of all general Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on meetings is sent to shareholders.
The Board welcomes issues considered at Board meetings.
Directors are entitled, the attendance of individual shareholders at general meetings at the Companys expense, to obtain independent professional and the opportunity to address any questions they may advice where they believe it is important to the furtherance of have.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings their duties.
have been passed on a show of hands, and proxies for and against each resolution are announced at Each year excluding those Directors retiring and not seeking such meetings.
re-election and those retiring following their appointment during the year the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third Shareholders are encouraged to view the Groups website of the Directors retire by rotation.
In addition all Directors must www.
com, which includes the share price retire by rotation at least every three years.
No Director has a as well as dedicated pages on case studies, news and service contract with a notice period of more than one year.
21 Computacenter plc The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Centralised treasury function Committees intend to be available at the AGM on 9 May 2003 All cash payments and receipts are managed by centralised to answer any questions from private and institutional investors.
accounting functions within each of the operating companies.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed can be found in the Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group Finance Notice of Meeting enclosed with this report.
Department ensures the position of the Group as a whole is properly controlled.
5 Accountability and audit The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Quality and integrity of staff internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system The suitability of staff is determined through rigorous is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure recruitment procedures.
Management continuously monitors to achieve the business objectives and can provide only training requirements and annual appraisal procedures are reasonable and not absolute assurance against material in place to ensure that required standards are maintained.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
The system of internal control is designed to continuously identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the 6 Board review of internal control Group.
Key elements of the system are as follows: Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control: Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Management structure Combined Code Turnbull the Directors confirm that The Board has overall responsibility for making significant procedures were in place to identify, evaluate and manage strategic decisions.
The Executive Directors, together with a significant risks faced by the Group throughout the year number of senior managers, constitute the Group Executive under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report Committee, which meets on a regular basis to discuss day-to-day and Accounts.
Separate Executive Committees have been established for each of the Groups operations in the UK, consideration of regular reports presented by the Internal France and Germany.
A flat reporting structure is maintained Audit Department, external audit and operational management: across the Group with clearly defined responsibilities for regular review of financial and management reports operational and financial management.
and information: consideration of actions taken by management to address Control environment any issues identified: The Group operates authorisation and approval processes that consideration of the results of reviews on Group risk are an integral part of its operations.
Access controls exist where and control.
processes have been automated to ensure the security of data.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed Management information systems have been developed to the work of Internal Audit towards those areas of the business identify risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of that are considered to be of the highest risk.
A rolling audit the system of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced and programme ensures that all significant areas of the business the further scrutiny of costs and revenues encouraged by the are independently reviewed within a three-year period.
This linking of staff incentives to customer satisfaction and profitability.
programme is continually assessed to ensure it takes account of the latest information, in particular the results of the annual Budgetary process review of internal control.
During 2002 Internal Audit carried A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually out a number of reviews of specific areas of the business and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is and the findings of these reviews were considered by the Audit monitored through a rigorous and detailed reporting system Committee.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department through which monthly results are compared to budgets.
The and the Companys risk management programme is reviewed results and explanations for variances are regularly and routinely annually by the Audit Committee.
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
In addition to the rolling annual audit programme, the Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the internal Risk management control system including financial, operational and compliance Specialist departments monitor developments and ensure controls and risk management.
All major risks are reviewed by compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
the Group Executive Committee and by key managers across A comprehensive risk management programme has been the Group.
The findings of the review are recorded in a risk introduced and a Risk Committee formed, comprising register, which is updated regularly based on data from the key operational managers, to assist and monitor its Internal Audit and Risk Management departments and other development.
Through a programme of assessment, sources.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that the risks identified appropriate measures and systems of control are maintained.
by the system of internal control are being managed appropriately.
Detailed contingency plans are in place or being developed for all key sites.
Capital expenditure and investments Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure that capital expenditure is properly appraised and authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to RA Sandler approval by the Board.
