Corporate Governance Guidelines A Statement of Policy for Slough Estates including visits to the Groups activities and meetings with Introduction senior management.
This statement of Corporate Governance policy has been adopted by the Board.
It gives guidance on how the principles are applied to the company.
A Statement of Board leadership Adherence to the Combined Code as appended to the Listing 4 Selection of Chairman and Chief Executive Rules can be found on pages 64 and 65. a The Board should be free to make this choice in any way that seems best for the company at the relevant time.
The Mission of the Board of Directors The Board has an open mind as to whether or not the roles The Slough Estates Board of Directors represents the of Chairman and Chief Executive should be separate, though shareholders interests in maintaining and growing a its prevailing policy would be for separation.
successful business including optimising consistent long term b A senior non-executive director has been identified and financial returns.
The Board is accountable for determining acts as the Deputy Chairman of the Board.
The senior nonthat the company and its subsidiaries are managed in such a executive director may also assume such responsibilities that way to achieve this objective.
The Board has a general might be designated by the Board.
responsibility to ensure that in good times as well as times of adversity the Executive is fulfilling its responsibilities.
The Board composition and size Boards responsibility is to monitor regularly the effectiveness of the Executives policies and decisions, including the 5 Size of the Board implementation and execution of its strategies.
It is important that the Board is of a size to enable there to In addition to meeting its obligations for improving be a reasonable balance as between executive and nonshareholder value, the Board has a responsibility to the executive directors, the number of executive directors to be Groups customers, employees and suppliers, and to the such as to ensure the sound management of the business communities where it develops and invests.
and to offer the expectation of promotion for senior nonAll these principles and responsibilities are founded upon the Board executive management.
By way of guidance, neither basis of maintaining the successful continuity of the the executive nor non-executive element of the Board business.
should exceed two-thirds at any one time and a majority of the non-executive directors should be independent.
Guidelines on important corporate 6 What constitutes independence for outside directors governance issues The Board believes that independence is a matter of 1 Selection and composition of the Board judgement and conscience but that, to be independent, nonThe Board will on a regular basis review the composition of executive directors should be free from any business or other the Board, the diversity of skills and experience, their relationship which could materially interfere with the complementarity and the characteristics required of both exercise of their independent judgement.
Their interest in executive and non-executive members of the Board in the receiving fees as a director and being a shareholder should context of the business and its strategies.
This review should not prejudice their independence.
An outside director should embrace diversity of experience, age, and term on the Board.
receive fair remuneration for the time devoted and the responsibilities involved but such remuneration should never 2 Selection and background of directors represent to that director such a material income in relation The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of to his overall financial position as to prevent that director agreeing to the appointment of its own members and for from acting independently.
Directors considered to be nominating them for election by the shareholders on first independent will be identified in the Annual Report.
appointment and thereafter at three yearly intervals.
Appointment of directors should be a transparent process.
A 7 The appointment of former executive Nomination Committee comprising a majority of nondirectors to the Board executive directors has the responsibility for making The Board believes that this is a matter to be decided in each recommendations for new appointments to the Board.
individual instance but save for the Chairman and or Chief 3 On appointment, new directors will be given a Executive it would probably be an exception to the rule for a comprehensive introduction to the Groups business former executive director to be considered.
A former 36 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 executive director would not be considered as being an 12 The Boards relationship with investors, press etc.
independent member of the Board.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated executive directors will be the companys principal spokesmen with 8 Term limits investors, fund managers, the press and other interested a Executive directors are employed on contracts which have parties.
varying notice periods which do not exceed two years.
Subject to performance and other factors, executive directors 13 Board access to senior management once appointed would usually remain on the Board until the Board members have complete access to senior normal retirement age of 62, subject of course to their management.
It is assumed that directors will use their periodic re-appointment by the shareholders in general judgement to be sure that this contact is not distracting to meeting.
the business of the company and the duties of management, b Non-executive directors are appointed and are then and that the Chairman and Chief Executive are kept subject to periodic re-appointment by the shareholders informed.
every 3 years in general meeting.
The Board does not Senior management are from time to time brought into believe that it should establish term limits.
Whilst such limits formal and informal contact at Board meetings and other help to ensure that fresh ideas and views are available to the events.
Board, they have the disadvantage of losing the contribution of directors who have a wealth of understanding of the 14 Availability of information Groups business and the executive team.
As an alternative The Executive has a responsibility to provide the whole to term limits, the Nomination Committee will when a nonBoard with all the information of which it is aware that is executive director is up for re-appointment assess the relevant to the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
The directors suitability for re-appointment based upon his Board therefore expects to receive timely advice on all current commitment and interest in the business of the material information about the company, its subsidiaries, its Board.
This process will also allow each director the activities, performance and its projects, particularly including opportunity to conveniently confirm his desire to continue.
any significant variances from a planned course of progress.
9 Retirement age 15 Meeting procedures The normal retirement age for all non-executive directors is The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive, will 70 and the director will retire at the Annual General Meeting establish the agenda for each Board meeting.
The necessary papers for meetings will be distributed in advance of the meeting.
The Executive will provide the 10 Board compensation review desired information but will endeavour to ensure that the The pay and benefits for executive directors, including the material does not contain anything that is not relevant.
Chairman, is determined by the Remuneration Committee - As a general rule, presentation on specific subjects should be a committee comprised entirely of non-executive directors.
sent to the Board in advance so that time at the Board For non-executive directors, their fees and remuneration is meeting can be conserved and used for discussion focused determined by the Board on the advice of the company on questions.
The remuneration of executive directors and nonexecutive directors will be the subject of continual 16 Board authorities, delegations and discretions monitoring of comparable companies and the assistance of The Board has determined those matters which are retained independent external advisers will be sought from time to for Board sanction and those matters which are delegated to time.
the executive management of the business.
11 Board Committees A statement determining investment and sanctioning The Board will maintain two standing committees authorities is also maintained.
comprising non-executive directors appointed by 17 Governance policies the Board.
The Remuneration Committee will in accordance Policy statements governing ethical, environmental and with its terms of reference determine the pay and other benefits of the Chairman and executive directors.
The Audit personnel issues are in place.
Committee will review the financial accounts and policies 18 Succession planning and oversee internal controls and compliance.
A third committee, the Nomination Committee, will consider the The Board has a primary role in ensuring that adequate need to make new appointments to the Board and thought is given to planning for succession to executive determine the renewal of directors appointments when they director and senior management positions and that there are are due for re-election.
This latter committee will comprise a management development programmes in place for suitable majority of non-executive directors.
