23 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance as outlined in the Combined Code the Code on corporate governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 except where noted on page 31.
This statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Board, which meets at least eight times a year, has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
It is primarily responsible for the strategy needed for the successful direction of an international company and currently comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and two independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman is an independent non-executive director.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During the year, attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the committees on which they sit was one hundred percent.
Under the Companys Articles of Association all directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
A R Beevor was re-elected at the 2000 AGM and is consequently retiring at the AGM but is offering himself for re-election.
Biographical notes appear on pages 18 and 19.
These demonstrate a range of business, financial and international experience which provides an appropriate balance of authority and experience throughout the Board.
The Board recognises the importance of line management taking ownership, and thereby responsibility, for managing and controlling the risks which may be inherent in their particular area of responsibility.
In furtherance of the principles of good corporate governance, the Board has appointed the following committees.
Other executives attend the meetings of these committees when requested to do so by the committee chairman.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Mike Humphrey Chairman David Barraclough Geoff Bull Keith Gregersen Barbara Richmond The executive committee meets every month to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board, or to any of the committees mentioned below.
Among other matters, it reviews investment proposals below the levels which are reserved for Board approval.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Michael Ward Chairman Antony Beevor David Dunn The audit committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It assists the Board in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls and compliance procedures are in place.
During the year the committee has continued to monitor the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors,  LLP.
The auditors attend these meetings.
24 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance Corporate governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE David Dunn Chairman Antony Beevor Michael Ward The remuneration committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets on average three times a year and is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive normally attends its meetings.
The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages 26 to 31.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report on the directors remuneration.
APPOINTMENTS COMMITTEE Antony Beevor Chairman David Dunn Michael Ward The appointments committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and did not meet in 2002.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Barbara Richmond Chairman Roy Ainger Geoff Bull Keith Gregersen The risk management committee evaluates, proposes policies on and monitors processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
ROUTINE BUSINESS COMMITTEE The routine business committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the executive committee.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are three such directors, including the Chairman, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations and by site visits.
INVESTOR RELATIONS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private investors.
It is normal practice for all members of the Board to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
The level of proxies lodged on each AGM resolution and the balance for and against each resolution is declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing no poll has been called for.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
