STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance The external Auditors are invited to attend Remuneration and Nomination committees The Company complies with the detailed all the Audit Committee meetings and are available at Annual General Meetings Corporate Governance provisions of the other Board members are invited to attend to answer questions.
Details of resolutions Combined Code incorporated into the as appropriate.
Part of each meeting of the to be proposed at the Annual General Listing Rules for quoted companies.
The Audit Committee may be held between the Meeting on 14 February 2003 can be Group complied with all Combined Code Non-executive Directors and the external found in the Notice of Meeting.
To further improve communications with Board Structure and Processes In addition, the Audit Committee keeps the shareholders, the Group has a website The Board consists of its Non-executive level of non-audit services, provided by the www.
co. uk dedicated to Chairman, its Chief Executive, Finance Auditors, under review.
Further details of corporate information such as: current and Director and four Non-executive Directors, non-audit fees are disclosed in Note 2. historical financial reports, presentations with Mr A M Jackson as the senior Nonand press releases together with a link to executive Director.
All members of the Remuneration Committee the current share price.
Following recently Board submit themselves for re-election The Chairman of this committee passed Government legislation, we now every three years.
throughout the year was Mr A M Jackson.
offer our shareholders the option of Mr Jackson resigned as Chairman on receiving electronic versions of shareholder The Board meets at least every two months 29 September 2002 and has been replaced communications, including the annual and during the year.
The Board receives detailed in this capacity by Ms D Howard.
Information regarding this financial information on the business committee meets at least once a year to service can be downloaded directly from performance in addition to items for determine the remuneration and other the corporate website.
decision in advance of each Board Meeting.
terms of service of the Executive Directors The Directors are therefore able to make and to review their performance.
Details of Internal Control informed decisions on corporate and the policy on the remuneration of directors The Board is responsible for the Groups business issues under consideration.
are given in the Report on Directors system of internal control and for reviewing Remuneration.
The members of the its effectiveness.
The system of internal The Non-executive Chairman, Lord Remuneration Committee also authorise control is designed to manage the risks of Daresbury, is responsible for the effective the granting of options under the Executive not meeting business objectives and is operation and chairing of the Board.
The Report on intended to provide reasonable and not view of the previous positions he has held Directors Remuneration is set out on pages absolute assurance against material with the company and his substantial 21 to 23. misstatement or loss.
shareholding he is not considered to be an independent director.
Mr S P Morgan, with Nomination Committee The principal elements of the Groups his substantial shareholding, is also not The Company has a Nomination Committee system of internal control and risk considered to be an independent director.
which consists of Non-executive Directors management, that comply with the under the Chairmanship of Mr A M Jackson.
Turnbull guidance and which were in place The Company Secretary is responsible for This committee recommends to the Board throughout the year under review and up ensuring that Board processes and the appointment of all Executive and Nonto the date of approval of the Accounts, procedures are appropriately followed and executive Directors.
are as follows: support effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the Company Relations with Shareholders A risk management report that is Secretarys advice and services and there is Communications with shareholders are reviewed at each meeting of the Board of also a formal procedure for Directors to given high priority.
This report summarises all obtain independent professional advice in financial review on pages 6 to 15 includes foreseen strategic, operational, financial, the course of their duties, if necessary, at a detailed review of the business and technical and environmental risks that the Companys expense.
future developments of the Group.
There is could prevent the achievement of regular dialogue with institutional business objectives.
Audit Committee shareholders including presentations after The Company has an Audit Committee the Companys announcement of the half All major risks identified in the risk consisting of Non-executive Directors under year and year end results, and following management reports are assessed and the chairmanship of Mr N N Walmsley.
allocated to specific individuals as The members of the Audit Committee are appropriate.
Action plans to mitigate the as disclosed on page 16.
In addition, The Board uses the Annual General identified risks are in place.
Mr D E Reid served as Chairman of the Meeting as an important means of committee up to the date of his communication with private and resignation.
It meets at least three times a institutional investors and welcomes their year and its terms of reference follow those participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure recommended by the Combined Code.
that the Chairmen of the Audit, STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 19 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued A detailed budget is prepared for the All aspects of Internal Control are following financial year along with a considered and monitored regularly by the strategic plan for the subsequent three Board of Directors and the Audit years.
Actual results are reported monthly Committee.
and compared to both budget and prior year results.
Operational performance of The Directors confirm that they have the hotels is reviewed against external reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal industry benchmarks.
Control system in accordance with the above procedures.
A formal appraisal and approval process is operated for all items of capital Going Concern expenditure.
Projects are required to The Directors consider, after making demonstrate achievement of appropriate enquiries, that the Company has adequate operational and financial criteria.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, Key systems and controls are documented accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt and, on a monthly basis, self-certification the going concern basis in the preparation reports are signed off by heads of finance of the Accounts.
Internal audits are conducted in accordance with a rolling programme.
Each hotel or business unit is audited at least once each year, with further audits being conducted in accordance with perceived risk.
The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure which allows appropriate segregation of duty.
Employees have prescribed authority levels.
20 fide VERE GROUP PLC STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
