corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has made significant changes to improve compliance with the Combined Code.
This report contains a summary of how the Board has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The Company has been in compliance with the Combined Code provisions throughout the year ended 30 September 2002, except where stated below.
Board of Directors and its Committees Board of Directors The Board is aware of the guidance The non-executive directors are provided During the period, the Board consisted of contained in the Combined Code on with sufficient information to enable them five non-executive and 14 executive situations where the roles of chairman to reach independent conclusions on the directors.
However, effective from 1 and chief executive are combined, and is matters brought to their attention at the October 2002, the Board structure was evaluating the separation of these roles.
Detailed briefings for non-executive changed as described in the Chairmans For the present, the Board believes that, directors where non-board members give Statement and the Directors' Report to with the formation of the new Executive presentations are given in addition to the consist of six non-executive directors and Committee and the appointment of the Board meetings, giving non-executives an four executive directors.
These changes Chief Operating Officer, together with the opportunity to question operational were implemented as part of an overall strong independent element on the Board, executives directly.
In addition Gordon improvement in the management structure there is sufficient distribution of Waddell and Robert Mansfield sit on the of the Group including the formation of the responsibilities at the top of the Group to regional boards in Europe and Asia Executive Committee.
Gordon Waddell has ensure that undue power is not respectively and Moss Ngoasheng, Rory been nominated as senior non-executive concentrated in the hands of one Scott and Dorian Wharton-Hood sit on the director and Moss Ngoasheng has been individual.
South African board, which further appointed as an additional non-executive enhances their depth of understanding of director.
The Board plans to seek the The Board has met five times during the the operations of the Group.
Moss services of another UK-based independent past year.
Attendance at Board meetings Ngoasheng, as a newly appointed nonnon-executive director to further strengthen was high, with full attendance at three executive director, is receiving additional the Board.
The Board considers all its meetings.
The Board is responsible to the training and briefing on the operations of present non-executive directors, except shareholders for the conduct of the the Group and his responsibilities as a David Frankel, to be fully independent.
business of the Group, and decides upon director as recommended in the Group strategy.
It also reviews operational Combined Code.
Jeremy Ord, Stephen Joubert, Patrick performance, approves the Group's Quarmby and Malcolm Rutherford business plans, approves the interim and The Board ensures that each director is continue on the Board as executive annual financial statements, determines provided with appropriate and timely directors with Jeremy Ord remaining as the Groups authority levels, treasury information in order to exercise their Executive Chairman.
Richard Came, policies and risk management policies, judgement.
All the directors have the Ronald Cattell, Peter Hird, Ettienne ensures adequate funding, and approves facility to take independent professional Reinecke, Donovan Smyth, Robert Taylor major investments and the remuneration advice at Company expense, following a and Bruce Watson have resigned to join of the non-executive directors.
A defined formal procedure that has been approved the Executive Committee.
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
They also have access to by the Board has been agreed, and this the services and advice of the Company Raul Fernandez and Peter Harrison have schedule has been revised and updated Secretaries in the UK and South Africa.
also resigned, but will remain on the as at 1 October 2002 to take account of regional US and European boards the role of the new Executive Committee.
The Board has appointed five committees respectively.
Dirk Ackerman has resigned, Financial reporting is routinely performed to which it has delegated responsibilities and will be leaving the Group at the end according to a strict schedule.
to allow it to control the activities of the of the year, but will continue to consult to Company effectively.
committees operates within defined terms of reference.
36 DIMENSION DATA Executive Committee The terms of reference of the Audit Nomination Committee As of 1 October 2002, an Executive Committee were reviewed and approved Gordon Waddell Chairman 1 October Committee has been formed, with at the last meeting.
The Committee 2002 responsibility for the day-to-day running of reviews the Groups annual and interim Robert Mansfield the business and assisting the Board in financial statements to ensure that Jeremy Ord the formulation of the Groups strategy reporting of the Groups results and Dorian Wharton-Hood and the execution thereof.
There is a clear prospects is balanced and division of responsibilities between the understandable.
It reviews and advises For the year under review, the chairman of Executive Committee and the Board and the Board on its reporting, any changes to the Committee has been Jeremy Ord.
terms of reference have been established financial reporting requirements, the However, Gordon Waddell will replace him to govern the functions of the Executive effectiveness of the Groups system of in the forthcoming year.
internal control, matters regarding meets as necessary, and has met once in compliance with relevant codes of best the year under review.
It is responsible for The Executive Committee consists of the practice in corporate governance, and reviewing the composition of the Board members listed on page 17. matters arising from internal audit and the and identifies and makes annual external audit.
It also reviews the recommendations to the Board regarding Audit Committee appointment of the external auditors and the appointment of new directors.
Rory Scott Chairman assesses the scope of work performed by Robert Mansfield them, including the amount of non-audit Treasury Committee Gordon Waddell work carried out, in order to ensure their Jeremy Ord Derek Irish objectivity.
Malcolm Rutherford Patrick Quarmby The Audit Committee met three times in Remuneration Committee Dorian Wharton-Hood the current financial year, and is Rory Scott Chairman comprised of independent non-executive Robert Mansfield from 1 October 2002 The Treasury Committee is responsible for directors.
Derek Irish, who is a senior Dorian Wharton-Hood the control of a prudent framework partner in an independent accounting covering Board policies, best practice, practice, attends the meetings in order to The Remuneration Committee meets four internal controls and reporting systems for provide independent advice to the times per year.
It operates within defined the management of treasury risks within committee.
The Groups external and terms of reference, and recommends to the Groups operation.
Scott Gibson, the internal auditors attend the meetings, and the Board what the remuneration and CFO Operations, and John Cookson, the have direct access to the committee to other benefits of the Executive Directors Group Treasurer, also sit on this report the results of work directed by the should be, having considered relevant committee.
The Treasury Committee committee as well as any matters of market norms and independent advice meets monthly.
The Chief Financial Officer and where appropriate.
No director is involved CFO Operations attend the meetings at in determining his own remuneration.
The the request of the committee: however, a Committee also grants share options in section of each meeting is reserved for terms of the Share Option Scheme 2000. the Committee to meet with the auditors The report of the Remuneration without executives present.
Committee is contained on pages 43 to 49.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 37 Relations with Shareholders Internal Control The Group maintains close The Board has overall responsibility for the During April 2002, Datacraft Asia, communication with shareholders, Groups internal controls and for reviewing Dimension Datas 51% owned subsidiary, providing them with full year and interim their effectiveness.
There are several announced that its debtors in certain of its reports, followed by presentations when processes to provide the Board with the operations in China had increased results have been announced.
In addition, assurance which it requires.
The Audit substantially, and that the company regular briefings to analysts and investors Committee oversees and evaluates these suspected impropriety in the non-payment are held to inform them about the Groups processes, and reports to the Board.
Datacraft has strategies, operations and performance.
External audit, internal audit, a value-add subsequently investigated the matter These are conducted in line with the audit function and Risk Management further, and has reported this to the Groups written guidelines which are report to the Committee.
Action has since been taken to intended to ensure control over priceOctober 2002  implement further internal controls to sensitive information.
Shareholders are has been appointed to perform the internal ensure that a similar incident should not invited to put questions to the Board at the audit function and was appointed to reoccur.
All directors are facilitate a risk identification and expected to attend this meeting.
assessment process throughout the Group Risk management with effect from 10 December 2001.
The There is in place an ongoing process for Financial and other information about the aim of the value-add audit is to identify identifying, evaluating and managing the Group is contained on its website at specific areas where systems can be put in Groups significant risks.
place to improve controls and enhance place for the year under review and up to performance and productivity.
The reports the date of approval of the annual report provided by these functions assist the and accounts.
Accountability Audit Committee in evaluating and reporting to the Board on the strategic, Subsequent to the Group completing its The Operational Review and the Financial operational and financial controls which global acquisitions, Review contain detailed reviews of the the Group has in place.
The Directors have  conducted a Groups performance and financial conducted a review of the effectiveness of global risk identification and assessment position.
The Board considers these the Groups system of internal controls for programme whereby management in each reports, along with the Chairmans the year and up to the date of signing region identified risks facing their Statement and the Directors Report, to these annual financial statements.
Risks were reflect accurately the Groups position and rated according to impact and likelihood, prospects.
The Directors responsibility for The systems which the Board has put in and appropriate controls were the financial statements is described on place to identify and manage the risks recommended.
Many of the principal risks page 50. faced by the Group in achieving its have been addressed or are in the business objectives are designed to process of being addressed by means of manage rather than eliminate such risks, special projects which specifically and can provide reasonable but not implement management processes to absolute assurance against material minimise the risk.
These processes will be misstatement and loss.
Management in each region are responsible for monitoring and controlling risk on an 38 DIMENSION DATA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ongoing basis, and for reporting to the Internal audit Existing controls over the security of data Board any factors which will impact on the The internal audit function has a structured held on IT systems will continue to be achievement of their business objectives.
review process which is monitored by the monitored with a view to implementing The Board has formally reviewed this Audit Committee, and is based on risk improvements as part of the consolidation.
process twice during the year.
It assesses compliance with The present disaster recovery systems will financial and operational controls at a also be reviewed in the forthcoming year Financial reporting business unit level in each of the regions and updated if necessary.
Financial results are monitored and where the Group operates.
It also provides reported according to comprehensive assistance to management in complying Controls over central functions systems and procedures.
The Board with their risk management responsibilities.
Treasury and Corporate Finance continue reviews and approves the Groups budgets.
Treasury policies Each Group operation reports its activity, Quality and integrity of personnel are recorded in writing and reviewed as turnover, cash position and forecasts The Group is committed to aligning its necessary by the Treasury Committee.
weekly to the Group executive.
Actual employees with its interests and values.
It Both functions report directly to the Board results and cashflows are reviewed has a published ethical code to which and are subject to visits by internal audit.
monthly, compared with budget, and employees are expected to adhere, and reported to the Group executive.
The transgressions are strictly dealt with.
The Authority and review executive considers these against agreed Directors Report and the Corporate Social The Group has clearly defined levels of quarterly and annual forecasts and the Responsibility Report contain information authority for the subsidiary boards and annual budget, and reports to the Board regarding the Groups commitment to their directors in making financial and quarterly.
In the forthcoming financial year, employees and ethical practices.
operational decisions including major the Executive Committee will take the place investments, capital expenditure and of the previous executive, and in addition IT systems contractual engagements with customers the Chief Financial Officer will also give a Subsequent to the completion of its and suppliers.
The Groups internal audit detailed monthly presentation of results to acquisitions, a formal review of the processes will monitor compliance with non-executives serving on the Board.
Groups IT processes has been conducted, these authority levels.
and several prioritised projects are Business unit controls currently underway which will consolidate Key controls over business unit risks the Groups IT systems in order to facilitate include reviews against performance better financial recording and reporting, indicators and exception reporting.
Each communication, knowledge management business units senior management is and contracting with customers.
responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks.
There are channels of communication available to report significant risks to the Board if necessary.
