Annual Report & Accounts Report of the directors Going concern its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Resolution 9 will be proposed at the Annual General expectation that the Company has adequate financial Meeting to re-appoint  LLP, as resources to continue in operational existence for the auditors to the Company.
For this reason the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the accounts.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors, By order of the board , to a Limited Liability Partnership S M Smith, Secretary LLP from 1st January 2003,  Solihull resigned on 13th March 2003 and the directors appointed 21st March 2003 Corporate governance The board supports the principles of corporate governance for an initial term of 3 years pursuant to a letter of advocated by the Combined Code and complied with its appointment.
Details of fees paid during the year are set provisions in the year under review.
It also notes Derek out on page 20.
Higgs Review of the Role and Effectiveness of NonIn July 2003, Kit Farrow will have been a member of executive Directors and Sir Robert Smiths Report and the board for ten years.
Tony Wilson does not meet the Proposed Combined Code Guidance for Audit test of independence under the recommendations Committees.
In addition, during 2002, the board outlined in the Higgs Report.
It is not their intention to considered and, where appropriate, implemented the stand for re-election in 2004.
The board expects to make guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility CSR issued further suitable non-executive appointments during the by the Association of British Insurers in October 2001.
The board has also announced the board takes full responsibility for CSR and it is included in executive appointment of Judy George and she will join the risk management process.
the board as US retail director from 1st July 2003.
The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate The board of directors accountability and participate fully in the review of The board meets regularly and in total met seven times strategic proposals to help ensure that the interests of during 2002.
Matters specifically reserved to the board for shareholders and relevant stakeholders in the Company decision include material capital expenditure, approval of are safeguarded.
annual budgets and the development of corporate All directors have access to the advice and services of strategy.
The board takes regular account of significant the group secretary, who, with the chairman, is risks to the Group including social, environmental and responsible for the proper conduct of board procedures.
It has identified and assessed short and The group secretary reports to the chairman upon long-term risks and ensured that effective systems are in secretarial matters.
To assist with the independent place for management of these risks.
conduct of their function, the non-executive directors are The board of directors of the Company currently able to obtain professional advice at the Companys comprises the non-executive chairman, three executive expense, if required in connection with their duties.
directors and four further non-executive directors.
The roles of group chairman and group chief executive are held Audit committee by separate directors and there is a clear division of The audit committee was chaired by Kit Farrow until responsibilities between them.
Management reports fully March 2003 and is now chaired by John Lovering.
It normally to the board at each board meeting and additionally as meets at least three times each year and did so in 2002. required.
All directors are suitably qualified and trained or Membership comprises all non-executive directors of the experienced so as to be able to participate in the work of Company.
It has written terms of reference which deal with the board.
Vic Cocker has been nominated as senior nonits authority and duties which include keeping under review executive director.
Non-executive directors are appointed the scope and results of the audit and the 17 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the all management teams.
In addition, the committee receives reports from The Group has clearly defined guidelines for the internal audit and specialists from within the Group.
The appraisal, approval and monitoring of acquisitions and committee also considers the nature and extent of auditors divestments, major capital investments and restructuring supply of non-audit services, such as consultancy services.
These include budgets covering quantification of benefits, detailed review and monitoring procedures, Nomination committee specific levels of expenditure authority and due diligence The nomination committee is under the chairmanship of where businesses are being acquired.
The committee meets as and when required The board has approved operating policies and and met twice during 2002.
Membership comprises the controls for the Groups treasury activities and receives non-executive directors and such executive directors as regular information about them.
In addition, the audit may be co-opted, provided that a majority of noncommittee and the board receive regular reports on the executive directors is maintained at all times.
The Groups insurance and risk management programmes.
committee has written terms of reference and is The head of the Groups internal audit department responsible for nominating candidates with required skills reports to the group finance director and has access to the and attributes for approval by the full board to fill chairman of the audit committee.
The department has an vacancies on the board and ensure that the board has an annually agreed programme, which is approved by the appropriate balance of expertise and ability.
External auditors consider the systems Remuneration committee of internal financial control, in conjunction with the internal As detailed in the remuneration report on page 19. auditors, to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
Internal and external auditors report regularly on Internal control and risk management the results of their work to management, including executive The board is responsible for the Groups systems of members of the board, and to the audit committee.
The internal control, including internal financial control, board will continue to review the effectiveness of the operational and compliance controls and risk Groups internal financial control systems.
management and for monitoring their effectiveness.
The Following a review of risk across the Group, a basis to board confirms that it has established procedures assess relevant risks was agreed and disseminated.
This necessary to implement the Guidance for Directors on the ensures that appropriate risk reviews are carried out at Combined Code.
The meeting calendar and agenda of the each business, taking account of the likelihood of board ensure that risk management and internal control occurrence and degree of impact.
Risks considered are considered on a regular basis throughout the year and include operational and financial contingencies and are subject to continuous review and development.
compliance with legal and regulatory issues.
In 2002 the Throughout the Groups operations, regular management risk management process included social, environmental and board meetings review all aspects of the Groups and ethical issues and in 2003 these will be grouped businesses, including those where there are potential risks under the heading of Corporate Social Responsibility.
Key procedures include planning, budgeting risk and control assessment has been prepared in respect and investment appraisal.
All operations have quarterly of the year to 31st December 2002 and will be updated reviews with the executive directors to discuss during 2003. performance and strategy.
Systems of internal control are designed to provide Risk factors reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the Groups As noted above, risk assessment of CSR issues was assets are safeguarded and that the financial information introduced in 2002.
Although the board is confident of and accounting records are reliable.
compliance with its CSR policies within Group companies, The board has reserved, for its own approval, those the review of the supply chain on CSR issues is on-going.
It major decisions considered significant to the strategy and is intended to extend this review during 2003. operation of the Group as a whole.
A control structure is in place throughout the Group which requires at least two Relations and communications with shareholders appropriate levels of authorisation for other decisions Meetings are held between directors of the Company and which have a major financial implication for the major institutional shareholders at regular intervals as part businesses concerned.
Continual monitoring of the of the Companys investor relations programme and as systems of internal financial control is the responsibility of necessary in relation to specific issues.
