Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle The Nomination Committee considers In September 1999 the Turnbull Committee and application of sound corporate the appointment of directors and makes published guidance on the wider aspects governance.
In accordance with this directors are elected to the Board at the guidance the Company has established the The Combined Code the Code detailing next AGM following their appointment procedures necessary to ensure that there the Principles of Good Corporate to the Board.
is an ongoing process for identifying, Governance and Code of Best Practice was evaluating and managing the significant risks published in June 1998.
Except as stated on The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Group.
These procedures have been page 34 in respect of notice periods under for determining the remuneration of the in place for the whole of the financial year Executive Directors service contracts Executive Directors.
The Report on ended 30 April 2002 and up to the date of Combined Code B1.7, the Company has Remuneration is set out on pages 33 to 35. the approval of these financial statements.
complied throughout the financial year with all the provisions of Section 1 of the Code.
The Board and its Committees receive timely The Board determines the objectives and information of a quality that enables them to broad policies of the Group.
It meets Board and Board Committees carry out their roles effectively.
All Directors regularly and there is a schedule of matters The Board currently comprises three have access to the advice and services of which are required to be brought to it Executive and five non-Executive Directors.
A procedure is in for decision.
The Board has delegated to The offices of Chairman and Group Chief place for any Director to take independent management the responsibility for Executive are held separately.
professional advice in the furtherance of establishing a system of internal control his duties at the Companys expense.
The appropriate to the business environments The Board has delegated certain powers, Directors are provided with opportunities in which the Group operates.
Key elements mainly of a routine nature, to the General for training to ensure that they are kept up of this system include: Purposes Committee, which comprises the to date on relevant new legislation and Executive Directors under the Chairmanship of changing commercial risks.
the Groups key corporate values have been the Group Chief Executive.
The other principal agreed and are in the process of being committees of the Board are the Audit, Relations with Shareholders communicated throughout the Group: Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Company has a programme of regular All of these comprise independent nonmeetings, site visits and results briefings a clearly defined divisionalised organisation Executive Directors as required by the Code with its major institutional shareholders, structure for monitoring the conduct and and all Board committees have written terms which provides an opportunity to discuss operations of individual business units: of reference agreed by the Board.
The Audit the progress of the business.
The Annual Committee is chaired by Mr P M Johnson, General Meeting is used as an opportunity clear delegation of authority throughout the Remuneration Committee is chaired by to communicate with private shareholders the Group, starting with the matters Mr R G Beeston and the Nomination including a short presentation on the reserved for the Board: Committee is chaired by Mr A P Hichens.
business and current trading position as The Board has used the criteria proposed well as an opportunity for questions from a formal process for ensuring that key risks by the National Association of Pension Funds investors to the Chairman of the Board and affecting all the Groups operations are for determining whether a non-Executive the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration identified and assessed on a regular basis, Director is independent.
Regular communication together with the controls in place to with shareholders also takes place through mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, the annual and interim reports and via the embedded in decision making processes.
which meets at least three times a year, companys website www.
The most significant are periodically cover all the points recommended by the reported to the Board and considered by it: Code.
The Committee monitors the Groups Internal Control accounting and financial procedures and The Board has overall responsibility for the the preparation and review of receives regular reports on the review of Groups system of internal control and for comprehensive annual divisional and internal controls.
The Committee is also reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, Group budgets and an annual responsible for the review of the annual however, can only be designed to manage review and approval by the Board of accounts and interim statement and meeting rather than eliminate risk and can therefore the corporate strategy: with the external auditors.
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
31 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Corporate Governance continued the monthly reporting of actual results and Going Concern their review against budget, forecasts and The Directors, having made appropriate the previous year, with explanations enquiries, have a reasonable expectation obtained for all significant variances: that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for clearly defined policies for capital the foreseeable future.
For this reason, expenditure and investment, including they continue to adopt the going concern appropriate authorisation levels, with larger basis in preparing the accounts on pages capital projects, acquisitions and disposals 40 to 67. requiring Board approval: procedure manuals laying down common control procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group: formal quarterly meetings between central and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Groups operational audit function undertakes regular reviews of the Groups operations and their systems of internal control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This exercise included a process of self-certification by senior divisional management in which they confirmed that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and report any significant control weaknesses identified during the past year.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of the Groups operational audit function and the risk identification and management processes identified above.
32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
