CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
The statement below describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Code of Best Practice The directors are pleased to report that the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
The companys Articles of Association provide for one-third of the directors to be subject to re-election every year.
The Board has determined that all directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 13.
Below is a brief description of the role of the Board and its committees followed by a statement regarding the Groups system of internal control and a statement on the business as a going concern.
The Workings of the Board and its committees The Board The Board currently comprises the independent non-executive chairman, the chief executive, three executive directors and the two independent non-executive directors.
These directors have been identified in the biographical details on page 2.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
It meets on a regular basis to review trading performance, to set and monitor strategy, and to examine major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Audit Committee The audit committee comprises Mr M F Garner, Mr H V Reid and Mr A J Stewart.
The committee is chaired by Mr M F Garner, and meets not less than twice annually.
The committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups auditors.
The meetings are also attended by other directors by invitation.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee comprises Mr A J Stewart, Mr H V Reid and Mr M F Garner.
The committee is chaired by Mr A J Stewart.
The committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including performance related bonus schemes.
The report of the remuneration committee, which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 16 to 20.
Nomination Committee The nomination committee comprises Mr H V Reid, Mr G E Tuppen, Mr M F Garner and Mr A J Stewart.
Mr H V Reid is chairman of the nomination committee.
The committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
14 ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The operating and financial review on pages 3 to 10 includes a detailed review of the business and future developments.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Thursday, 23 January 2003 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 52 and 54.
Internal Control The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
The Groups associate, The Unique Pub Company Limited, has not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors consideration: The Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board: An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: Documented and enforced policies and procedures: Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances: A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Postinvestment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board: The audit committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This review included a review of business risks at function level, and how these risks are managed and reported within the organisation on an ongoing basis.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
