Corporate Governance The Combined Code on corporate governance is part of the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the remuneration report on pages 19 to 26 set out how the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
The company has substantially complied with the Code, save for a few exceptions disclosed in the directors compliance statement on page 17 and 18.
Directors Board Details of directors who served during the year are set out on page 20.
The board comprises the chairman, managing director, 11 other executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Of the six non-executive directors, two are independent whilst the remaining four are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, at the companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Newly appointed directors are submitted for election at the first available opportunity after their appointment.
The board meets every two months and there is frequent contact between meetings.
Board meetings take place in London and New York, and occasionally in other locations where the group has operations.
The meetings are held to set and monitor strategy, to review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfill its duties.
A number of standing committees deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs, each of which operates within defined terms of reference.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring both independent views and the views of the companys major shareholders to the board.
The non-executive directors, whose biographies can be found on pages 12 and 13 of the accounts, are: The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, JP Williams, JC Botts and JD Bolsover.
Executive committee The executive committee comprises the executive directors and senior management.
It is chaired by the companys chairman and meets each month to discuss and determine key operational issues.
Nominations committee The nominations committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the board having regard to the balance and structure of the board.
It meets when required and comprises the chairman who is also chairman of the nominations committee, managing director and three non-executive directors: Sir Patrick Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, and JC Botts.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee meets twice a year and additionally as required.
It is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including performance related profit share schemes.
The composition of the committee, details of directors remuneration and interests in share options, together with information on directors service contracts, are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 19 to 26.
Page 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Corporate Governance continued Communication with shareholders The board encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings are held, both in the US and UK, to discuss annual and interim results and highlight significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
Private shareholders are encouraged to participate in the annual general meeting.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the annual general meeting at which directors and committee chairs are available for questioning.
Internal control and risk management The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the guidance published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales the Turnbull Report, the board has implemented an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the business.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and has taken account of material developments which have taken place since September 30 2001.
It has considered the major business and financial risks, the control environment and the results of the internal auditors work.
Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the group and to deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the boards attention.
Key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, and which have been in place throughout the year, are as follows: The board of directors The board normally meets six times a year to consider group strategy, financial performance, acquisitions, business development and management issues: The board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board: Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs: The board divides the groups key risks into six broad categories and reviews and assesses each of these at least annually: The board seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from business group management, the audit committee and various independent monitoring functions: and The board approves the annual forecast after performing a review of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The board considers longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on the groups strategy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 15 Corporate Governance continued Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and a commitment to management and business skills training.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by management leadership and through the employee handbook provided to all employees.
Social responsibility The group is aware of its social responsibility and has core procedures embedded in its internal systems and controls to ensure that the groups set social standards are not breached.
The group is a keen supporter of local initiatives and regularly sponsors a number of charities in the UK and the US.
Management actively recruit local graduates through the groups graduate recruitment program, providing a strong career path for successful candidates.
Environmental responsibility Euromoney Institutional Investor does not directly operate in industries where there is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
However, it does take its environmental responsibility seriously and complies with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in each country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of environmental issues when placing contracts with its suppliers of goods and services.
The group manages sensibly its energy requirements.
Health and Safety The group is committed to the health and safety of its employees and communities in which it operates.
The group complies with all local health and safety regulations and makes use of external health and safety advisors where appropriate.
A health and safety audit was conducted during the year, and the recommendations arising from this audit are being addressed.
Senior management take very seriously any information that demonstrates the group is in breach of health and safety regulations.
Investment appraisal The managing director, finance director and business group managers consider proposals for acquisitions and the launch of new businesses.
Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the board for approval and are subject to due diligence by the groups finance team and, if necessary, independent advisers.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorization controls.
For capital expenditure above specified levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to the board and reviews carried out to monitor progress against budget.
Accounting and computer systems controls and procedures Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention is paid to authorization levels and segregation of duties.
The groups tax, cash and foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax and treasury committee, which meets at least twice a year.
Controls and procedures over the security of data held on computer systems are periodically reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
Controls include a specific focus on data security and disaster recovery.
Internal audit The group has an internal audit manager who draws on the services of the central finance team to perform assignments.
The responsibilities of internal audit cover four main areas: control of the assets of the business: monitoring of the accuracy of financial reporting: adherence to group Page 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Corporate Governance continued policies: and the accuracy of circulation figures.
Businesses and central departments are selected for an internal audit visit on a rotational basis and most businesses are subject to at least one internal audit review each year.
The internal audit manager reports his findings to management and to the audit committee.
Accountability and audit Audit committee The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors: JC Botts chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant and JP Williams, and meets at least twice each financial year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the interim report and the annual report and accounts before their submission to the board and overseeing controls necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, with particular focus on effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
It discusses the nature, scope and any findings of the audit with the external auditors.
The committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors, and reviews the internal audit managers programme and receives periodic reports on his findings.
Financial reporting Going concern After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the groups system of internal financial controls for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that these requirements have been satisfied.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance with the 45 provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting year.
Save for the limited exceptions outlined below, the group has complied throughout the financial year ended September 30 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 17 Corporate Governance continued Provision A.
3.1 requires that non-executive directors should comprise not less than one third of the board.
The board currently comprises 19 directors of whom six are non-executive.
3.2 requires that the majority of non-executive directors should be independent.
Four of the six non-executive directors are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, the intermediate parent undertaking of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC.
The board does not consider that the relationship with Daily Mail and General Trust plc has any influence on the independence of the non-executive directors in question.
2.1, the board has not identified a senior non-executive director as the directors are of the opinion that all matters relating to the effective governance of the group must be dealt with by the board as a whole.
2.2 and D. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, two of whom are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, two of whom are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The non-executive directors who are also directors of Daily Mail and General Trust plc have no personal financial interests in the company other than as shareholders.
Also, as explained in the report by the board to shareholders on directors remuneration, JC Botts has options in Internet Securities, Inc. in lieu of fees as a non-executive director of that company, which is common practice for non-executive directors in the US.
1.7 indicates a preference for length of service contracts of directors to be not greater than one year.
The chairman and managing director have two year rolling service contracts.
The board considers this appropriate given the importance and commitment required for these positions and given the competitive pressures of the media industry.
The board, however, would not normally appoint a new executive director with a service contract of more than one year.
On behalf of the board Padraic Fallon Chairman November 20 2002 Page 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2002
