Exel plc Annual report 2002 Governance 33 Corporate governance Exel is committed to high standards of Singapore Economic Development Board Nomination Committees.
These committees, corporate governance and supports the and visited various customer facilities.
all of which have written terms of reference principles laid down in the Combined Code that are reviewed regularly, are made up on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Board has full and timely access to relevant exclusively of independent non-executive This statement describes how the principles information to enable it to discharge its Directors, other than the Chief Executives of the Code are applied and reports on the duties effectively.
Board and Board committee membership of the Nomination Committee.
Companys compliance with the Codes papers are distributed to Directors to allow provisions.
sufficient time for review and comment.
The The Executive Board is chaired by the Chief Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Executive and consists of the executive The Board notes the Higgs Review of the Directors are properly briefed on issues Directors, with the exception of David Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive arising at Board meetings.
All non-executive Riddle, and the senior executives identified Directors, and the Smith Report and Directors have independent access to the on page 30.
It holds monthly meetings Proposed Combined Code Guidance for external Auditors.
of which half are via conference call for Audit Committees, and is considering their those executives based outside the UK.
All Directors have direct access to the advice The responsibilities of the Executive Board and services of the Company Secretary and cover the Companys contract logistics and The Directors biographies and the are able to seek independent professional freight management activities and include composition of the Audit, Remuneration advice at the Companys expense, if required, global strategy, international account and Nomination Committees are set out in connection with their duties.
The Company development, resource management and on pages 30 and 31.
Secretary, who acts as Secretary to all the the review and approval of projects before Board committees, has responsibility for they are submitted to the Board.
The Board ensuring that Board procedures are followed At the year end, the Board comprised six and is accountable to the Board, through Other key committees include the executive and six non-executive Directors who the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Acquisition Review Board, which meets bring a wide range of skills and experience The appointment and removal of the monthly to review potential acquisitions to the Board.
In particular, the Board benefits Company Secretary is one of the matters and disposals, the Project Review Board, from having one non-executive and two reserved for the Board.
which meets monthly to review new business executive Directors based outside the UK and contract renewal proposals, the Risk who provide international experience.
There The Company has a programme for meeting Management Steering Committee, which is a clear division of responsibilities between Directors training requirements.
Newly meets quarterly to review risk management, the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
appointed Directors who do not have previous insurance, CSR and health and safety issues public company experience at Board level are and the Systems Executive Board, which The Board is responsible to shareholders provided with relevant training on their role meets quarterly to focus on strategic IT for the management of the Group and has and responsibilities.
The activities of the Corporate Social a formal schedule of matters reserved for are offered an appropriate induction Responsibility Committee were integrated its decision.
In 2002, as noted under the programme.
Subsequent training is provided into the Risk Management Steering specific heading below, the issue of corporate to Directors on an ongoing basis.
Committee during 2002. social responsibility CSR was added to the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The non-executive Directors, including the Audit Committee Chairman, are all considered to be independent The Audit Committee comprising three The Board determines the strategic direction in the sense outlined in the Code.
They bring non-executive Directors meets at least of the Group, establishes policies and monitors a wide and varied commercial experience to three times a year and met on three operational performance and internal the Boards deliberations.
Sir William Wells occasions during 2002.
Items approved by the Board include was appointed as senior independent nonof communication between the Board and annual budgets, medium-term business executive Director on 1 October 2002, the Company s external and internal Auditors.
plans, financial reporting to shareholders, following Mr Rich s appointment as Chairman.
Its principal functions include ensuring that major acquisitions and disposals, significant John Loudon was appointed a nonappropriate financial standards are established capital expenditure and financing proposals.
executive Director of the Company in 1992 and maintained throughout the Group, Certain issues are delegated to duly authorised and was re-elected at the 2001 Annual reviewing the Groups accounting policies, committees of the Board.
The Nomination Committee financial control systems and related is satisfied that he remains independent of matters and making recommendations In the normal course of business, the Board management and fully supports his continued to the Board as and when necessary.
meets eight times a year, with at least one membership of the Board.
The Committee may, as appropriate, meeting being held away from Head Office meet with the Companys internal and at one of the Groups business locations An assessment of the Boards effectiveness external Auditors without the Companys outside the UK.
and Board processes will be conducted management being present.
It keeps under during 2003. review the scope and results of the audit, In January 2002, the Board met in Singapore as well as the independence and objectivity where the Directors held discussions with Board and management committees of the Auditors, particularly in the context the Senior Minister of State Trade and The three principal Board committees of the nature and extent of the non-audit Industry, received a presentation from the comprise the Audit, Remuneration and services they provide to the Company.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 34 Governance Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board has agreed a policy and set Plc Board Committee Committee Committee financial limits in relation to the use of the Auditors for non-audit work, and this is No.
of Meetings in 2002 8 3 5 1 monitored by the Audit Committee on an ongoing basis.
Nigel Rich 8 3 5 1 John Allan 8 1 All non-executive Directors are invited to John Coghlan 8 attend Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Bruce Edwards 8 Committee meetings at which the Company s Mick Fountain 8 interim and full year results are considered.
Jean-Claude Guez 7 5 Remuneration Committee Tony Isaac 6 3 The Remuneration Committee comprising John Loudon 6 5 four non-executive Directors meets at least David Riddle 8 four times a year, and met on five occasions during 2002.
Its responsibilities include Ian Smith 8 setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the Fritz Ternofsky 8 3 remuneration and terms of service of the Sir William Wells 8 5 1 executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys overall John Devaney resigned as a Director on 30 September 2002. performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of share options to senior employees and the participation of executives in the Long Internal controls and risk management It consists of: Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders a.
Basis for disclosure are on a fair and equitable basis and in Exel has ongoing processes for identifying, a formal identification by management accordance with agreed performance criteria.
evaluating and managing the significant risks at each level of the Group of the key risks A separate report on Directors remuneration faced by the Company.
Processes were in to achieving their business objectives, is included on pages 36 to 45. place throughout 2002 for regular review by together with the risk management the Board of the effectiveness of the system activities whereby they minimise these Nomination Committee of internal control and risk management and risks and the routine assurance processes The Nomination Committee comprising the as such the Company has complied with the which indicate the effectiveness of their Chairman, the senior independent nonCodes Guidance on Internal Controls.
The formal process executive Director and the Chief Executive includes evaluation of the inherent meets as necessary, and at least once a year.
System of internal controls impact and likelihood of each risk and During 2002, the Committee met to discuss Internal control is defined in the Code as all the residual impact and likelihood after its revised terms of reference, the re-election controls, including financial, operational and management action of Directors at the forthcoming Annual compliance controls and risk management.
a process of regular certification by General Meeting, and to review the structure, management that they are responsible size and composition of the Board and The Board has overall responsibility for the for the risks to their business objectives, membership of the Board committees.
Companys system of internal control and that they have reviewed their risks and Its principal functions are to consider for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the controls and that they have complied candidates for Board nomination, including role of management is to implement Board with the requirements of Group policies determination of the job description and policies on risk and control.
The system of a process of regular reporting and review criteria to be met by candidates, re-election internal control is designed to manage at divisional executive meetings and by to the Board of those Directors retiring by rather than eliminate the risk of failure to the Board of progress in the improvement rotation, and succession planning at Board achieve business objectives.
In pursuing of risk management activities and action level.
As required by the Companys Articles these objectives, internal controls can only taken subsequent to incidents which of Association, all Directors are subject to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance have occurred election by shareholders at the first opportunity against material misstatement or loss.
assurance, which is provided by internal after their appointment and must stand for audit, as to the existence and effectiveness re-election to the Board at least every three The Board regularly reviews the Group s strategic of the risk management activities described years.
In addition, any Director aged 70 or direction.
At the business level, strategic by management.
over must stand for re-election to the Board objectives, annual plans and performance every year.
targets are set by the executive team and reviewed by the Board in the context of the Board attendance Groups overall objectives.
There is a defined The following table is a record of the process for identifying, evaluating and Directors attendance at Board and Board managing the significant risks faced by the committee meetings during the year.
Group which has been in place for the year under review and remains in place.
This process has been approved and reviewed by the Board.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Governance 35 In addition to this process, businesses are has access to the Board Chairman and Relations with shareholders subject to: the Audit Committee, and meets with The Company is committed to the Chairman of the Audit Committee at maintaining good communications with a quarterly, comprehensive business least once a year without the presence of shareholders.
Institutional shareholders review by the executive team management.
The annual plan is presented and analysts are invited to briefings by independent internal and external audits to the Audit Committee meeting in the Company immediately after the which focus on areas of greatest risk, November and updates are presented at announcement of the Companys reporting to the executive team and the the other meetings during the year.
The interim and full year results.
Webcasts Audit Committee Audit Committee also receives copies of all of these briefings are posted on the an extensive budget and target-setting audit reports and a progress report at each Companys website so as to be available process governed by strict timetables meeting, which identifies key issues and to all shareholders.
The Company also and detailed specifications provides a summary of the reports issued hosts conference calls on the same day.
a monthly reporting and forecasting since the last meeting.
On occasion, the Company holds strategy process reviewing performance against briefings, the most recent of which took agreed objectives Corporate social responsibility place in November 2002.
There is also appropriate delegated authority levels The Board recognises its collective regular dialogue with institutional across the Group which prescribe the responsibility to ensure that the Group has shareholders.
A subscription e-mail service limits to which the Group can be appropriate policies on social, environmental is available for all interested parties through committed and ethical matters, adequate procedures the Companys website enabling access to established financial policies and to implement them, and adequate all Company notifications and news releases.
procedures covering capital expenditure verification policies and procedures to and project appraisal as well as post monitor them.
The Board takes account Particular importance is placed on project review of CSR matters through a Board level review communications with private shareholders, other risk management policies and at least annually, and through the regular for whom the Annual General Meeting procedures which are designed to meet reports of the Risk Management Steering presents an opportunity to meet and the needs of the particular business to Committee.
Additionally, John Coghlan is question the Directors.
Shareholders are which they relate.
These include health reponsible to the Board for all CSR matters invited to submit questions in advance and safety, environmental and other CSR and is Chairman of the Risk Management of the meeting.
At the Annual General issues, legal compliance, quality assurance, Steering Committee.
Meeting, to be held on 24 April 2003, risk transfer, insurance and security.
there will be a display of various aspects The Board delegates responsibility for of the Groups activities and a business These procedures are then monitored and ensuring it has adequate information to presentation by the Chief Executive.
The assessed in a variety of ways, including John Coghlan and to Doug Evans.
This Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and internal and external independent review.
information includes, where relevant, Nomination Committees will be available the collection of data, for instance on to answer questions.
Proxy votes will be The processes used by the Board to review environmental, health and safety and announced after each resolution and the effectiveness of the system of internal employment issues.
John Coghlan reports the voting results will be published on the control include the following: to the Board, on CSR issues and significant Companys website.
A detailed explanation CSR risks, at least once a year.
The Groups of each item of special business to be the Board reviews the effectiveness risk management process brings to the considered at the Annual General Meeting of the risk management process and Boards attention areas of less significant is included in the Notice of Meeting, which significant risk issues are discussed risk.
In addition, Exels crisis management will be sent to shareholders at least 20 the Chairman of the Audit Committee process is able to keep Board members working days before the meeting.
reports the outcome of the Audit informed should the need arise.
Furthermore, Committee meetings to the Board and at the operational level, CSR is regarded An investor relations report, including the Board receives the minutes of all Audit as an integral part of management details of activities during the year, is set out Committee meetings responsibility and is monitored accordingly.
on page 90 onwards and information of the Board considers financing, investment particular interest to private shareholders and treasury decisions concerning the CSR risks are identified, managed and can be found on page 92.
In addition, the Group, including the giving of guarantees brought to the attention of the Board Companys website makes available a wide and indemnities through the Groups overall risk range of information to shareholders.
the Board reviews the role of insurance management process, discussed above.
in managing risks across the Group No specific CSR-related risks have been Compliance the Board reviews the key Group and identified that could have a material impact The Board considers that the Company was business unit risks during the year, taking on the business.
in compliance throughout the financial year into account how the risks have changed with the Codes provisions.
over the period under review.
Verification of Exels CSR activities and of the data required for that verification is The Audit Committee, on behalf of the undertaken by the Groups internal audit Board, annually reviews the scope of work, team.
Where specific and or technical authority and resourcing of internal audit.
expertise is required, external consultants The Head of Global Audit and Assurance are used.
