Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
Having reviewed its compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Board confirms that the company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year, except in respect of Professor J D Rhodes continued combined role of Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
It has been the Boards intention for some time that a Chief Executive Officer should be appointed to enable Professor J D Rhodes to concentrate on technology and strategy related matters.
However it remains the Boards position that, given the technical complexity of the companys business together with the lack of suitably qualified candidates, it is in the best interests of the company for Professor J D Rhodes to retain his combined role for the time being.
Internal control The Board has adopted the published guidance by the Turnbull Committee on the implementation of the internal control requirements of the Combined Code and accepts that the Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the companys system of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to be relevant to the company and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures established by the directors with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: a Control environment and monitoring systems The Board meets each month and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Additionally, the Board has established an Executive Management Board which is responsible for operational matters within the company.
The audit committee, which comprises all of the non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control and receives reports from the external auditors on a regular basis.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the companys annual financial statements.
They test the system of internal financial control and the information contained within the annual report and financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
b Major information systems The directors have delegated to executive management implementation of the system of internal control throughout the company.
This includes financial controls which enable the Board to meet its responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy of the companys accounting records.
The Board approves, in aggregate, budgets and other performance targets, the components of which form the financial objectives for individual operating units.
Performance against these targets is reported monthly.
Financial forecasts are updated and reviewed monthly and include cash flow forecasts.
c Main control procedures In addition to matters reserved for Board decisions, the company has established a system whereby authority to take decisions is distributed throughout the company.
This distribution of authority defines procedures for authorisation and approval and sets appropriate levels of responsibility.
An accounting policies and procedures manual sets out the companys declared statement of policy in all financial areas and establishes the control procedures, including segregation of duties, to ensure that these policies are implemented.
d Identification and evaluation of business risks The company has clear principles and procedures which are appropriate to a multinational electronics business.
These principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership but with devolved operating responsibility as the framework for the exercise of accountability and control by the Board, its committees and executive management.
The Board directs activities in and allocates resources to the key areas of business development, product strategy, research and development, manufacture and financial practice.
The Board has appointed a Technology Advisory Board to provide strategic technical advice to the company.
This board comprises leading, internationally respected electronics experts together with outstanding engineering talent from within the 46 Annual Report 2002 Corporate Governance Statement company.
Through these ongoing procedures, the Board is able to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks which the group faces from time to time.
The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it operated during the year.
The Board undertakes, on an ongoing basis, a review of all aspects of the companys internal control procedures, and is able to report that the company has complied fully with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee during the financial year ending 31 May 2002.
This review is undertaken by the Board through the receipt and consideration of regular monthly and other reports prepared by management on operational, strategic, organisational and financial issues.
The directors and the audit committee have considered the need for an internal audit function.
Taking into account the nature and level of reviews carried out by management and the benefit of the issuance of an updated Internal Financial Control manual during the year, the directors have concluded that the current arrangements are sufficient.
This matter is under continuing review.
Each of the directors is proposed for re-election at the annual general meeting at least every three years.
Constitution of the Board The Board comprises six executive and five independent, non-executive directors.
Short biographies of all of the directors are set out on page 48.
The Board considers that the balance of its constitution brings both independence and an appropriate balance of experience in judging matters of strategy, performance, resources, investor relations, internal control and corporate governance.
R J Williams is the senior non-executive director.
Board committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nominations committee.
The audit and remuneration committees comprise all of the non-executive directors.
The nominations committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and Professor J D Rhodes.
Each of these committees operates under terms of reference which have been established by the Board.
The audit committee meets at least three times a year to review the adequacy of the companys system of internal control, accounting policies and financial reporting.
The Financial Director and the auditors attend these meetings with all other directors being invited to attend.
Further, the audit committee meets with the auditors without executive directors being present at least once during the year.
The audit committee requires the auditors to report specifically on any non-audit assignments which they have undertaken.
This work is restricted primarily to assistance with United States income tax compliance and reporting on Form 20-F to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The auditors do not carry out any consulting work for the company.
The remuneration committees responsibilities include ensuring that the remuneration and service contract terms of the executive directors and senior management are appropriate.
The committee determines the allocation of all executive share options.
The nominations committees duties are confined to the approval, support or otherwise of appointments, reappointments and termination of employment or engagement of directors of the company.
Relations with investors Communications with investors are given high priority.
The Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 5 includes a review of the business and future developments.
Further information is included in the operating review on page 6.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after the companys preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Executive Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees are available at the annual general meeting to answer questions.
Information is also available to all investors by way of the companys website at www.
com Going concern The directors have reviewed the budgeted cash flow and other relevant information and have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
