Corporate Governance Report Forth Ports PLC 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate Governance Report The following paragraphs describe how the 6.
An Annual General Meeting is held every Company has applied the principles concerning calendar year at which all Directors submit Corporate Governance in Section 1 of the themselves for re-election at least every Combined Code and the Turnbull Committee three years.
Directors Remuneration The Combined Code Application of Principles 1.
Reference is made to the Remuneration Report which sets out the composition of the A.
The Board of Directors Remuneration Committee, the Companys 1.
The Board of Directors comprises five remuneration policy for Directors and details Executive Directors and four Non-Executive of such remuneration including bonus schemes Directors.
Mr. H. M. Thompson retired with and pensions for each Director, and the effect from the Annual General Meeting on Committees compliance with all relevant 10th May 2002.
The Non-Executive Directors, sections of the Combined Code.
who are independent of management, bring an independent and balanced view to the 2.
All Executive Directors are on one-year rolling Board.
The Company has a Non-Executive contracts except where there is a takeover or Chairman and a separate Chief Executive.
merger in which case the notice period is two years other than for Mr. P. D. Glading whose 2.
The Board meets eight times every year and notice period remains at one year.
as necessary for any matters arising at other times.
The Board has a formal schedule of C. Relations with Shareholders matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
The Company encourages regular dialogue with At each Board Meeting, the Board considers institutional shareholders based on a mutual reports from each of the Executive Directors understanding of objectives.
covering his area of responsibility.
The Board reviews the strategy of the Group annually.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors 3.
The Company Secretary is responsible for and encourage their participation.
ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Company, at the 2003 Annual General All Directors have access to the advice and Meeting, will ensure that the level of proxies services of the Company Secretary.
There is for and against each resolution is intimated to an agreed procedure for Directors to take shareholders after each resolution has been independent professional advice, if necessary, dealt with at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the Company Secretary ensures that the D. Financial Reporting and compliance with Directors are fully aware of their duties the Turnbull Committee Guidance on and responsibilities as Directors and that Internal Control the Guidance they receive appropriate training.
The Nomination Committee comprising the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the Groups system of internal control in accordance Non-Executive Chairman, all in terms of the with the Guidance throughout the year and up Combined Code, is convened as and when to the date of this report.
It should be recognised required to make recommendations to the that such a system can provide only reasonable, Board on all new Board appointments.
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Mr. G. H. Webster has been appointed as the system which have been established are Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
as follows: Corporate Governance Report Forth Ports PLC 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Control Environment procedures for authorisation of capital The Groups control environment is the expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
responsibility of the Groups Directors The Group has an internal audit function and managers at all levels.
The Groups which carries out systematic reviews of the organisational structure has clear lines financial control procedures.
Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies Monitoring System used by the Board is delegated to the local Boards.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and monitors the Groups performance Identification of Business Risks and against those budgets monthly.
The Board compliance with the Guidance receives reports on a regular basis from the Throughout last year, the Group complied Audit Committee.
The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures 2.
Audit Committee involved in the identification of business This Committee, chaired by the Non-Executive risks and compliance with the Guidance.
Chairman, comprises all the Non-Executive The Board regularly reviews the process Directors.
It meets routinely three times a year of identifying, evaluating and managing with other meetings held as necessary.
This allows them to Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the take a view on the effectiveness of these Committee.
The Internal Auditor, Chief procedures to facilitate an ongoing process Executive, Finance Director and the External of reviewing and assessing the key risks Auditors attend the meetings.
The minutes facing each of the Groups businesses are circulated to all attendees.
The Terms and enhancing the systems which manage of Reference are to liaise with the External the key risks identified.
All subsidiaries are Auditors on all matters relating to the Group required to assess key risks and related accounts, to review the work carried out by control and monitoring procedures on an the Internal Auditor and to review the Groups ongoing basis.
The Board monitors this compliance with Accounting Standards, process on a regular basis.
Stock Exchange and legal requirements.
Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts The Group operates a comprehensive Company law requires the Directors to prepare budgeting and financial reporting system accounts for each financial year which give a which, as a matter of routine, compares true and fair view of the state of affairs of the actual results to budget.
Management Company and the Group and of the profit or accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
In preparing those accounts, Variances from budget are thoroughly the Directors are required to: investigated and revisions to forecasts are made twice during the year.
Cash flow select suitable accounting policies projections are prepared monthly and cover and then apply them consistently a rolling twelve month period to ensure make judgements and estimates that that the Group has adequate funds.
are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable accounting Main Control Procedures standards have been followed, subject to Divisional management establishes control any material departures disclosed and procedures in response to each of the key explained in the accounts risks identified.
Standard financial control prepare the accounts on the going concern procedures operate throughout the Group basis unless it is inappropriate to presume to ensure the integrity of the Groups that the Company will continue in business accounts.
The Board has established Corporate Governance Report Forth Ports PLC 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Directors are responsible for keeping 4.
Going Concern proper accounting records which disclose The Directors, having made enquiries, have a with reasonable accuracy at any time the reasonable expectation that the Company and financial position of the Company and the the Group have adequate resources to continue Group to enable them to ensure that the in operational existence for the foreseeable accounts comply with the Companies Act future, and that therefore it is appropriate to 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding continue to adopt the going concern basis the assets of the Company and the Group in preparing the accounts.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The Combined Code and the Guidance other irregularities.
Compliance with principles The Group has been in full compliance with the The maintenance and integrity of the Forth provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Ports PLC website is the responsibility of the Code throughout the year, with the exception of Directors: the work carried out by the auditors provision B1.7 as other than for Mr. P. D. Glading does not involve consideration of these the period of Executive Director contracts exceeds matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept one year in a takeover or merger situation as no responsibility for any changes that may detailed in Section B2 on page 24 and on page 27. have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in By Order of the Board the United Kingdom governing the preparation J.
A. Tothill and dissemination of accounts may differ from Company Secretary legislation in other jurisdictions.
