702350 pp43-pp51 22 4 03 4:49 pm Page 43 43 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance Compliance The Board supports and, except as noted below, ensures that the Company complies with the principles of good governance and code of best practice contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code as adopted by the UK Listing Authority and annexed to the Listing Rules the Code.
Application The Board Board meetings Seven regular Board meetings were held during the year, all Directors attending each meeting.
A number of matters are reserved for the Boards approval, including major capital expenditure, treasury and dividend policy, overall Group strategy and all Group budgets and plans.
The list of matters is reviewed annually.
Group Executive Committee The Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary and certain other key senior executives comprise a Group Executive Committee which meets 11 times a year to deal with all executive business of the Group not specically reserved to the Board or its other committees.
It is responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of the Groups system of internal control.
Additional meetings are held to discuss specic issues.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are reviewed regularly.
The Committee oversees the work of the Corporate Audit Department, and formally reviews its remit, authority, scope and resources, approving its plans in advance and reviewing its conclusions, including reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Committee also reviews the scope, result and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The auditors also supply non-audit services to the Company and the Group, and the Committee keeps the nature and extent of such services under review, with the aim of ensuring a balance between objectivity and value for money.
The Committee is chaired by and comprises Non-Executive Directors, and meets on average three times a year, with the Executive Directors, the Groups corporate audit function and the external auditors in attendance.
At each of these meetings there is an opportunity for discussion between the Non-Executive Directors and external auditors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the main Board on matters discussed at each Audit Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are reviewed regularly, and is chaired by and comprises Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets on average three times a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are reviewed regularly.
It is chaired by a Non-Executive Director and comprises the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis and nominates candidates for appointment and re-appointment to the Board.
Appointments and re-appointments are made by the full Board.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee is formally constituted and comprises two Directors one of whom shall be either the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director and the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee deals with routine administrative and banking matters arising between Board meetings, in addition to matters that have been approved in principle by the Board and do not warrant specific sub-committees.
Non-Executive Directors Following Sir Terence Harrisons retirement as Non-Executive Chairman on 13th May, 2002, Mr G O Whitehead agreed to combine the role of Chairman with that of Chief Executive, pending the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
As announced on 13th March, 2003, Mr I M Grice will succeed Mr Whitehead as Chief Executive with effect from 10th August, 2003.
Mr Whitehead will then assume the role of Non-Executive Chairman.
Although the combining of the two roles does not comply with the Code, the Board is of the view that this short-term measure was in the best interests of the Group.
The Company has a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and further experienced Non-Executive Directors, all of whom have significant external commercial experience and responsibilities, bringing strong independent advice and judgement to the Board.
The Directors are of the opinion that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent of the Companys management and free from any restraint which could materially interfere with the exercise of his judgement.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, for specified terms.
They are subject to periodic re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions regarding removal.
The re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director is a matter for consideration by the Nomination Committee and agreement of the Board.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors takes the form of an annual salary which is set by the Board in line with market levels for the role undertaken.
As Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead will be the only Non-Executive Director for whom pension and other benefits are provided by the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups bonus or share schemes.
Re-election The Companys Articles of Association direct that all of the Directors submit themselves for re-appointment at the first AGM after their appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
Although the Articles allow the Chief Executive to be excluded from this requirement, the Board has determined that all Directors shall comply with the Code.
702350 pp43-pp51 22 4 03 4:49 pm Page 44 44 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance continued The Secretary and independent advice All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Directors for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
The Directors consider that it is reasonable for any Director who wishes to seek independent legal advice to consult the Company, before advice is sought and any costs are incurred by the Group.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors.
Each year the Chief Executive, and other Executive Directors attend a number of meetings with analysts, shareholders and private client brokers.
All queries from shareholders are dealt with in a timely manner, with Welcome Packs being sent to new shareholders.
Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the Auditors set out on page 45, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the accounts: The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and detect irregularities and fraud.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the Groups accounts appropriate policies have been consistently applied and applicable accounting standards complied with.
Further, in all material respects the accounts are supported by prudent judgements and estimates made by reference to information available at the time of their preparation.
The Directors are also responsible for the integrity and maintenance of the Groups websites.
The Group financial statements are published on the Groups main website, and follow United Kingdom guidance as regards preparation and dissemination.
The requirements in other jurisdictions may differ.
All Directors bring independent judgement to bear on their deliberations concerning strategy and performance.
The Directors are satisfied that throughout the period they have had access to sufficient information to enable them to make proper decisions in a timely manner, and the Chairman has ensured that all Directors were kept properly briefed.
Appropriate induction and training are provided to Directors as necessary.
Going concern After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts and taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to enable them to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts which appear on pages 46 to 73 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Internal control The Group has fully complied with provision D. 2.1 of the Code throughout the financial year to 31st December, 2002 and up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors, a process has been established, and is ongoing, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management, in order to safeguard the shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and has regularly reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
Such a system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular needs and mitigate the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a control environment, with policies, processes and codes of conduct that are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk across a wide range of business activities.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and appropriate internal controls are embedded into the Groups management systems wherever possible.
The key components of the Groups system of internal control are: The Group Safety Department, which reports to the Chief Executive, with the objective of monitoring and improving the safety, health and environmental record of the Group.
A Group-level review carried out by the Group Executive Committee to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
As an integral part of the Committees regular meetings, assessment is made of the progress against objectives, changes to operational risk, adequacy of control and handling of any problems which arise from such reviews.
The identification by the Board of a list of key risks faced both by its businesses and the Group overall.
Advised by the Audit Committee, the Board has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group address those risks.
An established management structure for the major operating businesses, with short lines of communication to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Group Company Secretary.
Delegation within the framework of the Group Policy Manual of clearly defined responsibilities and procedures, with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels for the maintenance of effective controls across the whole Group.
The Corporate Audit Department, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the Finance Director on compliance with procedures, authority limits and on the effectiveness of the risk management strategies of the major businesses, such that the principal areas of business risk and exposure are identified, evaluated and mitigated.
The Corporate Audit Department is also involved in overseeing a system of peer reviews involving internal audit of business units by other operational staff.
A comprehensive financial reporting system of annual budgets, periodic forecasts and detailed monthly reporting, together with weekly cash reporting.
Budgets and forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board.
A system of self-assessment whereby each business and business unit within the Group addresses on a comprehensive basis the approach to controlling business risks.
