78 GKN plc 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains 14 Principles Chairmans Committee of Good Governance applicable to listed companies.
The paragraphs Comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive under below together with the report on Directors remuneration set out on the chairmanship of the Chairman.
It normally meets before Board pages 81 to 89 describe how these Principles are applied within GKN.
Meetings and is a forum for the Chairman and the Chief Executive to brief the non-executive Directors.
The Board and its Committees The GKN Board currently comprises six executive and six non-executive Audit Committee Directors and reflects a blend of different ages, experience and Comprises the non-executive Directors except Dr Klaus Murmann backgrounds.
The roles of Chairman which is a non-executive position under the chairmanship of Roy Brown.
It meets three times a year and Chief Executive have been split since 1997 and there is a clear and more frequently if required.
The Committee examines the division of responsibility between the two.
In the opinion of the Board, process of financial reporting within the Group and reviews changes all the non-executive Directorsare independent of management and in Group accounting policies.
It also reviews annually the Groups free from any business or other relationship which could materially system of internal control and the processes for monitoring and interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and the Upon appointment, Directorsreceive induction training and, thereafter, terms of reference and results of the work of the internal audit individual training is available as required.
Directors also have direct department.
It is also responsible for ensuring that an appropriate access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is relationship between GKN and the external auditors is maintained, tasked with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In addition, including reviewing non-audit services and fees see Independence Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, take independent of external auditors on page 80. professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Remuneration Committee The Board normally meets ten times a year, two of which are on Comprises the non-executive Directors except Sir David Lees the sites of subsidiary or joint venture companies.
Comprehensive under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg.
It meets periodically briefing papers on items for consideration are circulated to each as required.
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms Director one week prior to a Board Meeting.
During 2002, the of service and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors Directors overall rate of attendance at Board Meetings was 95.5%.
and the Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration During 2002, the Board carried out an evaluation of Board and policy which is approved annually by the Board.
Board Committee effectiveness covering, inter alia, composition, Nominations Committee arrangements for and content of meetings, Committee terms of Comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive reference, Director training and visits to operating sites, access under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
It meets periodically to information and administrative procedures.
The results of the as required.
The Committee assesses and recommends to the evaluation were considered by the Board and certain recommendations Board candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive were implemented.
Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary.
It makes Under the Companys articles of association, each of the Directors is recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance required to retire by rotation at least once every three years.
Details and as to the appropriate processes for the appointment of executive of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at an Annual General Directors, non-executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and Meeting are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting.
the chairmen of Board Committees.
It also reviews proposals for changes in responsibilities of Directors.
Specific responsibilities have been delegated to the following Board Committees: Shareholder communications Meetings between Directors, senior management and major Executive Committee institutional shareholders are held periodically in accordance with Comprises the executive Directorsunder the chairmanship of the Chief GKNs investor relations programme and when required in relation Executive.
The Committee, which normally meets monthly, oversees to particular issues.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General the activities of the Group, decides how the various risks facing the Meeting and shareholdersare invited to ask questions during the Group are to be managed and approves major human resource policy meeting and to meet with Directorsafter the formal proceedings issues including management development and training.
Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the In implementing its policy on managing accidental risk, the level of proxy votes received and, following each vote on a show of Group pursues a systematic integrated loss prevention approach hands, the percentage of proxy votes for and against each resolution to safeguard peoples health, the environment, an uninterrupted is announced.
supply to its customers, its assets and its earnings, under the auspices of a Group Loss Prevention Council.
The Council formulates In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results and recommends Group loss prevention policies and acts as a presentations and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours steering group for loss prevention activities across Group operations.
to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture in a style and format which is appropriate for the intended audience.
The Companys The Group has one major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland, website www.
com provides financial and business information which was formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged about the Group including copies of annual and interim reports and their respective helicopter manufacturing businesses.
The presentations made to institutional investors.
AgustaWestland Audit Committee is responsible for the overview of the corporate governance systems adopted by AgustaWestland Internal control that are appropriate to the business and comply with the requirements The Board attaches considerable importance to the Groups systems of both shareholders.
of internal control and risk management.
It acknowledges its responsibility for them and for the regular review of their effectiveness.
The Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, recognising that The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks The review process facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal There is a standing agenda item at every Executive Committee control and risk management on an ongoing basis by: meeting to enable members of the Committee to advise if any considering the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional material internal control issues have arisen or any significant level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget new risks have been identified.
Central to this exercise is a review Continuing processes are in place for all parts of the Group to assess of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps the major strategic, commercial and financial risks to which their being taken to manage these: operations are exposed, the social responsibilities relating to such reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated operations and the way in which such risks and responsibilities forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget are monitored, managed and controlled.
Social responsibilities and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to concern the responsibilities of the Group to various stakeholders optimise operational and financial performance: including its employees, the communities in which it operates, its business partners and the environment including behaving ethically retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment and with regard to human rights.
The Groups Social Responsibility policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure and financing Review is on pages 26 to 33.
These processes are summarised in arrangements.
Below Board level there are clearly defined management a risk map reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together with an Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk their business risks and to report on whether there has been analysis and post-implementation plan and, where appropriate, any material breakdown in their internal controls.
Companies a post-acquisition review: also have to confirm annually their adherence to statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with internal policies on matters receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having such as competition law, employment law, ethics, document approved the operating policies and controls for this function: management, data protection and employee disclosure.
Risk performing an annual review of the Groups pension fund profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
80 GKN plc 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED receiving annual reports, following their review by the Executive The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review Committee, on environmental, health and safety matters as they the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors relate to the Groups operations.
The Executive Committee also in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
reviews interim reports on health and safety performance: Whilst the Audit Committee has no reason to doubt the independence or objectivity of the auditors, as a matter of policy, the auditors are reviewing annually management development and succession excluded from invitations to undertake assignments of a consultancy plans.
The Executive Committee also reviews management nature, except where their detailed knowledge of the Group in development issues twice a year: and comparison to other professional services firms is considered by receiving regular reports from the Audit Committee on whether the Committee to represent a tangible advantage to the Group and the systems of internal control and risk management are operating its shareholders.
Guidelines for the operation of the policy, including the special The Audit Committee, which has independent access to the circumstances in which the auditorscan be used for non-audit work, external auditors and to the internal audit function, is responsible have been agreed by the Audit Committee and issued by the Finance for reviewing the ongoing control processes.
It achieves this by: Director to all Group companies.
reviewing and approving the terms of reference and major findings Compliance with the Combined Code of the internal audit department.
This department has a risk-based In addition to the 14 Principles of Good Governance, the Combined work programme which is reviewed by the Audit Committee, and Code also contains a Code of Best Practice with 45 detailed its purpose is to review and test the systems, controls, processes, provisions.
Other than with regard to two of these provisions, GKN procedures and practices across the Group.
Its head, who reports was in compliance with the Code of Best Practice throughout 2002, directly to the Group Chief Executive, has access to, and regular reviews the two exceptions being: with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
There is an established Recognised senior non-executive Director process to review the implementation of the recommendations of The Board does not consider it necessary to identify a single the department and all its reports are seen by the relevant members senior non-executive Director, in addition to the Chairman, to of the Executive Committee: whom shareholders concerns can be conveyed.
The chairmen of reviewing reports from management and external and internal the Audit and Remuneration Committees, whose names are given auditors on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and on page 78, are both senior non-executive Directors and either may risk management.
In particular, in advance of the announcement be approached in circumstances where investors feel it inappropriate of the Groups results for each year, it reviews a summary of the to contact the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
annual detailed divisional reports on their business risks and Notice periods internal control processes: and Although not in compliance during 2002, the Boards current policy discussing with management the resolution of control issues raised is that, unless local employment practice requires otherwise, the by Board members or in reports reviewed by it.
notice period in the service agreements of executive Directors shall be one year.
The service agreements of those executive Directors who The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems previously were entitled to two years notice of termination have been of internal control and risk management during the period covered amended to accord with this policy with effect from 1 January 2003. by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control published The auditors responsibilities with regard to their review of the in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Companys compliance with the specified provisions of the Code England & Wales, have been in place throughout that period and of Best Practice and in relation to the annual report generally are up to the date of approval of the annual report.
Independence of external auditors The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained and have written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
