GlaxoSmithKline 31 Corporate governance This section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
32 The Board 33 Corporate Executive Team 34 Governance and policy 34 Dialogue with shareholders 35 Annual General Meeting 35 Accountability, audit and internal control framework 37 The Combined Code 32 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance deh The Board Donald McHenry Aged 66 Non-Executive Director.
Mr McHenry was formerly a NonThe Directors listed below were appointed on 23rd May 2000 and Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He is a have served since that date.
Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and President of the bdfh Sir Christopher Hogg Aged 66 IRC Group, LLC.
His other Non-Executive directorships include Non-Executive Chairman.
Sir Christopher was formerly a The Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston Financial Corporation, Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He is NonInternational Paper Company and AT&T Corporation.
He Executive Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and a member of the previously served as Ambassador and US Permanent Supervisory Board of Air Liquide S. A. and Chairman of The Royal Representative to the United Nations.
bdg Sir Ian Prosser Aged 59 dhj Sir Roger Hurn Aged 64 Non-Executive Director.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Sir Roger was appointed a Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He is Executive Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc in 1996 and Deputy Six Continents PLC and the World Travel & Tourism Council and Chairman in 1997.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Cazenove Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc.
He is a member of Group plc.
He is also Chairman of the Court of Governors of the CBI Presidents Committee.
ad Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 64 d Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 55 Non-Executive Director.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Chief Executive officer.
Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director of of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of df Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He holds a PhD Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 62 in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in France Non-Executive Director.
Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
She is Ludwig Professor of Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology d John Coombe Aged 57 and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Chief Financial officer.
Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine.
She Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for holds a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College Finance and Investor Relations.
He is a member of the Supervisory of Medicine.
Board of Siemens AG, the UK Accounting Standards Board and the Code Committee of the UK Takeover Panel.
Membership of Board committees is indicated by the following di Paul Allaire Aged 64 symbols: Non-Executive Director.
Mr Allaire was formerly a Non-Executive Chairman Member Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director Audit a b of Lucent Technologies Inc. and priceline.
He is Chairman Corporate Administration d of The Ford Foundation.
& Transactions dfj Corporate Social Responsibility e f Dr Michle Barzach Aged 59 Financial Results d Non-Executive Director.
Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive Nominations g h Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
She is a member of the Remuneration i j International Cooperation High Council, Chairman of the Board of Equilibres et Populations and Director of the Board of Project Hope.
International consultant in health strategy, she was formerly French Details of the terms of reference of the Board Committees may be Minister of Health and Family.
found on page 34. bdj Sir Peter Job Aged 61 Other Directors Non-Executive Director.
Sir Peter was formerly a Non-Executive Sir Richard Sykes, Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Peter Walters, Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr John Young, Non-Executive Schroders plc, Shell Transport and Trading Company plc, TIBCO Director, all retired from the Board on 20th May 2002.
Software Inc, Instinet Group Inc. and Multex.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Boards of Deutsche Bank AG and Bertelsmann AG.
dhj John McArthur Aged 68 Non-Executive Director.
Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BCE Inc. BCE Emergis Inc. Cabot Corporation, HCA Corporation, Koc Holdings A. S. Rohm and Haas Company, Telsat Canada and The AES Corporation.
He is also Senior Advisor to the President of the World Bank.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 33 Corporate Executive Team CET David Stout President JP Garnier Pharmaceutical Operations Chief Executive officer Mr Stout was President of US Pharmaceuticals until he was As Chief Executive officer, Dr Garnier is the link between the Board appointed to his current position in January 2003.
He is responsible and staff, and oversees all operational aspects including establishing for the global pharmaceuticals business as well as the global policies, objectives and initiatives, and directing long-term strategy.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head Dr Garnier was formerly Chief Executive officer of SmithKline of its US Sales and Marketing function, and in 1998 became Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Rupert Bondy Chris Viehbacher Senior Vice President and General Counsel President Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, US Pharmaceuticals together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance Responsible for European pharmaceuticals operations until the and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining end of 2002, Mr Viehbacher took over the US pharmaceuticals SmithKline Beecham in 1995 as Senior Counsel.
He joined Wellcome in 1988 and became Director, Continental Europe, at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999.
Ford Calhoun Chief Information officer Andrew Witty Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global President function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Pharmaceuticals Europe Group.
With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, Mr Witty is responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals genetics, biomathematics and computer science, Dr Calhoun operations in Europe, a post he took up in January 2003 when joined Smith Kline & French in 1984. he was appointed to the CET.
Mr Witty joined Glaxo in 1985 and at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacic, until John Coombe his current post.
Chief Financial officer As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for Tachi Yamada activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, Chairman investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
Research & Development He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was Dr Yamada leads the Groups complex business of drug discovery appointed Group Finance Director in 1992. and development - creating new medicines through research.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member Dan Phelan of the Board and became Chairman, R&D, Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President in 1999.
Human Resources Mr Phelan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, Jennie Younger organisation development, leadership development and succession Senior Vice President planning, human resource information systems and employee Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships health management.
He joined Smith Kline & French in 1981 Mrs Younger is responsible for the Groups internal and external and in 1994 was appointed Senior Vice President and Director, communications, its image and partnerships with communities Human Resources, SmithKline Beecham.
She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Investor Relations.
Howard Pien President Jack Ziegler Pharmaceuticals International President Mr Pien leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA and Consumer Healthcare most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries that account Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business, for over 82 per cent of the worlds population.
He joined which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and SmithKline Beecham in 1991 and in 1998 was appointed nutritional healthcare products.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in President, Pharmaceuticals.
1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer Healthcare business.
David Pulman President Other members Global Manufacturing & Supply Dr Palmer and Mr Tyson left the Group on 1st December 2002 Appointed to the post in December 2002, Dr Pulman is to pursue other roles in the pharmaceutical industry.
Mr Ingram responsible for the global manufacturing and supply chain retired on 31st December 2002, but will continue to work network.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and prior to his most recent part-time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a posting was responsible for the North American supply network, special advisor to the Group and will attend CET meetings in manufacturing strategy and logistics.
34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Governance and policy Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and The Board and Executive remuneration of the Executive Directors and Corporate Executives The Directors are listed under The Board page 32. and with the assistance of external independent advisors it The Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc is responsible for the Groups evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on the system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
the Group's activities, strategy and financial performance.
The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
It The Board comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The meets four times a year and otherwise as necessary.
The Chairman role of Non-Executive Directors is to bring independent judgement and CEO attend the meetings except when their own remuneration to Board deliberations and decisions.
The Board considers each of is being considered.
The Senior Vice President, Human Resources the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Sir Christopher Hogg was appointed Non-Executive Chairman following the retirement of Sir Richard Sykes on 20th May 2002, Nominations Committee and Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier is Chief Executive officer.
Sir Roger Hurn The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
composition of the Board and the appointment of Corporate Executives and new Board members and makes recommendations Board process to the Board as appropriate.
The Committee will also review the The Board meets at least six times a year.
It has a formal schedule managements succession plan to ensure its adequacy.
The of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors and meets specic responsibilities to Board committees, as described below.
at least once a year to consider succession planning and otherwise The Board works to an agreed agenda in reviewing the key as necessary.
activities of the business, and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Board considers and reviews the Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee work undertaken by its Committees.
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and approves matters in connection with the administration of the The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or Groups business, and of certain corporate transactions.
The more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent Committee consists of the Directors, Corporate Executive Team legal and or financial advice.
There is an agreed procedure to members and the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets as enable them to do so.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Secretary is Simon Bicknell who was appointed in May 2000.
He is The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee consists entirely of a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board level forum for the Board Committees.
regular review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact upon the Groups business and reputation.
The Committee Board committees is also responsible for annual governance oversight of the Groups The Board has established the following Committees each of which worldwide donations and community support.
The Committee has its own written terms of reference: meets formally twice a year and has further meetings and consultations as required.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting Corporate Executive Team process, the system of internal control and management of risks The executive management of the Group is the responsibility of and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also the CEO and other senior managers, who form the Corporate proposes to the shareholders the appointment of the external Executive Team CET which meets 11 times per year.
The auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and members and their responsibilities are listed under 'Corporate oversight of their work.
The Committee consists entirely of Executive Team' page 33.
It meets at least four times a year with the Chief Executive officer CEO, the Chief Financial officer CFO, Remuneration of Directors the General Counsel, the heads of global internal audit and Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the corporate compliance, and representatives of the external auditors Remuneration report on pages 39 to 50. in attendance.
Dialogue with shareholders Financial Results Committee Financial results are announced quarterly.
The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Report on Form 20-F and Annual Review The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when and the convening of the Annual General Meeting together with its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The CEO and CFO the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each give presentations on the final year end results to institutional Director is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a investors, analysts and the media in London and in New York.
In meeting is any three members.
To be quorate, each meeting must addition, there are teleconferences after the release of the first, include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the CEO or the CFO.
These presentations may also be accessed via the www.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 35 The Annual General Meeting takes place in London and formal Remuneration report notication is sent to shareholders at least one month in advance.
The Remuneration report on pages 39 to 50 sets out the At the Meeting a business presentation is made to shareholders remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures and all Directors able to attend are available, formally during the on Directors remuneration including those required by the Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions.
Details of the Companies Act 1985, Schedule 7A, of the Directors Remuneration 2003 Annual General Meeting are set out in the section 'Annual Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to approve General Meeting'.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional Auditors shareholders on plans and objectives through a programme of Following the transfer of  business into regular meetings.
They both speak regularly at external conferences a limited liability partnership,  LLP, on and presentations.
1st January 2003,  resigned as auditors of The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London the company.
The Audit Committee proposed, and the Board and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors subsequently appointed,  LLP as auditors throughout the year.
of the company to ll the casual vacancy created by the resignation.
com, gives access to current financial and Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint  business information about the Group.
LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
Share buy-back programme In October 2002, following the completion of the 4 billion share Special business buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company announced The company will seek to renew its authority to: plans for a new 4 billion share buy-back programme.
make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur The programme covers purchases by the company of shares for EU Political Expenditure cancellation, in accordance with the authority given by shareholders give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights at the Annual General Meetings in 2001 and 2002. when allotting new shares in certain circumstances up to a maximum of five per cent of the current issued share capital In total 2.2 billion was spent during 2002.
In May 2002 the obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 617 million maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued shares 623 million shares in May 2001 and 156 million shares share capital.
were purchased for cancellation during 2002: details are given in Note 27 to the Financial statements, Share capital and share Accountability, audit and internal control framework premium account.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the company and is dependent The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and on market conditions and other factors.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The structure of accountability and audit operated in Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political GlaxoSmithKline is as follows: Expenditure At the Annual General Meetings in May 2001 and 2002, Audit Committee and the Board shareholders authorised the company to make donations to EU The Audit Committee of the Board has responsibility for reviewing, Political Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the system of internal under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and control, management of risks, the external and internal audit Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
The Group process, and the process for monitoring compliance with laws, made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling regulations, and ethical codes of practice.
No donations were made to EU Political framework has been in operation for the whole of the year under Organisations.
review and continues to operate up to the date of approval of this report.
Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee receives regular reports on areas of significant The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Monday, risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following 19th May 2003 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Such controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, there are areas of Directors the Groups business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve Sir Christopher Hogg, Dr Garnier, Sir Roger Hurn, Mr Coombe, a satisfactory return for shareholders.
In these cases it is the Sir Peter Job, Mr McArthur, Mr McHenry, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz companys objective to apply its expertise in the prudent and Dr Shapiro will each retire and offer themselves for re-election management rather than elimination of risk.
The Directors review to the Board under article 93 of the company's Articles of relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend Association.
Biographical details for each of them are given under to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other 'The Board' page 32. investments.
36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Having considered the Audit Committee reports on the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC effectiveness of controls, the Board believes that the system The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board of internal controls provides reasonable although not absolute to oversee the risk management and internal control activities of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process the Group and to ensure that business units have designated accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the managers to manage significant risks.
Membership comprises Turnbull Committee in 1999. several members of the CET and the heads of departments with internal control, risk management, audit, or compliance The Audit Committee also keeps under review the scope and responsibilities.
The ROCCs responsibilities also include ensuring results of the external audit and the independence and objectivity that regular analysis is carried out to identify gaps in internal of the external auditors.
The Committee reviewed the nature and controls and providing reports to the CET and Audit Committee in extent of non-audit services the external auditors provided during addition to the separate reports provided by individual internal 2002 to ensure that the services were not so significant as to call control, audit, and compliance departments.
A direct reporting line into question the auditors independence from the Group.
With to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the effect from 1st January 2003 the Committee will pre-approve all executive management if irregularities are ever identied.
non-audit services to be provided by the external auditors.
The internal control framework relies on the ROCC, as well as The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board sector and other business unit Risk Management and Compliance reviews, amongst other matters, external issues that have the Boards RMCBs, to help identify risks and to provide guidance to potential for serious impact upon the Groups business and the risk management and compliance initiatives at the corporate reputation and as such forms part of the internal control and business unit levels.
The ROCC meets regularly to review and framework.
assess significant risks and mitigation plans directed against those risks.
The ROCC has developed the corporate policy referred to Management structure above and provided the business units with a framework for risk The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group is management and for reporting risks to management and the appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives agreed ROCC.
Mitigation planning and identication of a manager with by the Board.
To enable it to exercise this responsibility, the Board overall responsibility for management of any given risk is a requires from management information concerning the business, requirement.
While the ROCC oversees many of the risks deemed including relevant information on risk exposures, internal controls significant to GlaxoSmithKline, each RMCB oversees risks important and external developments.
The CEO reports to the Board and is to its business or function, thus increasing the number of risks that responsible for the management of the Group.
To assist him in this are actively managed across the Group.
The ROCC is supported by task, the CEO has established the CET, which is not a Committee the Corporate Ethics & Compliance department.
Key functional activities and management sectors are represented on the CET.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance The internal control framework includes central direction, resource The Corporate Ethics & Compliance department is responsible for allocation, and risk management of the key activities of research supporting the development and implementation of practices that and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, facilitate employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
human resources, information systems, and financial practice.
As The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in part of this framework there is a comprehensive planning system preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of law or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with operating units are reported monthly and compared to the all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels, and budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Compliance ofcers support the financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and risk Groups main operating sectors of R&D, Manufacturing, mitigation activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
The Corporate Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is clearly Compliance officer chairs the ROCC, coordinates some of the delegated to local business units, supported by a regional risk management activities among the various compliance and management structure.
These principles are designed to provide audit functions across the Group, and provides summary reports an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating on the ROCCs activities and the Groups significant risks to the autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Areas of potentially significant risks The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and Areas of potentially significant risk that are subject to regular procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and reporting to and by the ROCC include the following.
A corporate policy, Risk Management and Legal details of the risks affecting the Group may be found in Note 30 Compliance, mandates that business units establish processes to the Financial statements, Legal proceedings and in for managing risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
Risk factors on pages 64 and 65.
In a number of risk areas, specic standards that meet or exceed requirements of applicable law have been established.
Human resources Specialist audit and compliance groups for example Corporate The legal requirements regarding discrimination and harassment, Environment, Health and Safety and Worldwide Regulatory the integrity of the workforce, including pre-employment screening, Compliance assist in the dissemination and implementation of and the control and use of contractors and temporary staff are and carry out audits of these standards.
risks inherent in a Group with over 100,000 employees.
Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 37 Research and development Information technology Safety of marketed products is a potentially significant risk and a Protecting information technology assets is an increasing risk as matter of great concern to GlaxoSmithKline, as is the conduct of businesses extend networks, systems and data to third parties, laboratory and clinical practices in R&D.
These must be in and as dependency on the Internet for communications increases.
accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as with Ensuring proper systems validation and electronic records and corporate standards that may exceed such requirements.
All signatures are key regulatory issues and matters of potential risk pharmaceutical products bring with them benets and risks, for the Group.
Web systems accessible to the public must comply including potential side effects.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are with legal and regulatory requirements and represent potential conducted during the development of potential products to risks.
Other potential risks include use of personally identiable determine the safety and efcacy of products for use by humans information, electronic record retention, outsourced business following approval by regulatory bodies.
In spite of these efforts, applications, and susceptibility to viruses and outside incursions.
when drugs are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated With much of the Groups business dependent upon electronic side effects may become evident.
The Group views the use of means, disaster recovery also poses a potential risk.
animals and human tissue in the testing required to develop new products as another risk.
Security, environment and safety Threats to the security and well being of our employees, property Marketing and sales and the environment present significant risks for which appropriate The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory safeguards and precautions are continually reviewed and upgraded.
environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The Groups Employee injury, changes in health due to occupational conditions policy is to conduct marketing in accordance with applicable laws and plant management and the potential impact of plants on the and regulations as well as with corporate standards that may environment are potential risks the Group addresses through a exceed such requirements.
Any failure to observe applicable process that sets targets and provides guidance on how results marketing codes, rules regarding government pricing, management may be achieved.
of samples, and legal restrictions on sale and marketing practices may create significant risks to the commercial sectors and the The Combined Code Group.
Failure to comply may result in legal proceedings.
The company seeks to uphold, and to report on compliance with, best practice in corporate governance.
The Board is reviewing the Legal and intellectual property recommendations from Derek Higgs Review of the role and Product liability, intellectual property, antitrust and government effectiveness of non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths investigations, and related private litigation are potential risks to Report on Audit Committees, Combined Code Guidance and GlaxoSmithKline, and the Group is involved in various legal and intends to ensure that the Group will continue to comply with administrative proceedings in these areas.
The outcome of these the Listing Rule requirement in relation to The Combined Code proceedings cannot be predicted with any level of certainty.
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the There is also a potential risk that third parties may allege that Combined Code which is issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The the marketing of the Groups own products will infringe the Combined Code comprises recommendations as to best practice intellectual property rights of those third parties.
in terms of the control and reporting functions of the board of a company.
The Combined Code sets out principles under the Finance headings of: There are potential risks surrounding the Groups ability to forecast the future and thus uncertainty about its ability to meet financial directors targets set out in its budgeting process.
The Group invests in new directors remuneration products and ventures based on assumptions about the success of relations with shareholders those efforts that may prove to be inaccurate.
In addition, there accountability and audit and prescribes more detailed are potential risks around the Groups treasury operations including provisions in respect of each principle.
tax liabilities, transfer pricing, and the possibility of trading losses Specically the provisions require directors to report in the and counterparty fraud.
Compliance with evolving financial Annual Report on: disclosures and other legal reporting requirements constitute risks.
The Groups pension liabilities represent a further area of potential directors remuneration risk.
Further discussion may be found in Note 33 to the Financial directors responsibility for the Financial statements statements, Employee costs.
Manufacturing Maintaining supply of key GlaxoSmithKline products is a potentially Compliance significant risk.
The Groups policy is to take reasonable measures The Directors report on compliance with the Combined Code to ensure uninterrupted supply of product, including manufacturing and other corporate governance requirements, and their reports in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as with in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, are set corporate standards that may exceed such requirements.
The out under Directors statements of responsibility page 74.
Group takes efforts to minimise the single sourcing of key products.
Rationalising the supply chain and balancing manufacturing capacity present other risks that could potentially disrupt the supply of important products.
38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures Within the 90 days prior to the date of this report, the Group Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002  of the Groups management, including the CEO Oxley which took effect on 30th July 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of establishes new or enhanced standards for corporate accountability the Groups disclosure controls and procedures.
There are inherent in the USA.
A number of provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley apply to limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls GlaxoSmithKline because the company is quoted on the New York and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs.
Although the companys circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
corporate governance structure is believed to be robust and in Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures line with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
Based upon and as of the date of the Groups As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the disclosure SEC, GlaxoSmithKline has established a Disclosure Committee.
controls and procedures are effective in all material respects to The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the Group les and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act of members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and compliance and public and investor relations.
It has responsibility reported as and when required.
for considering the materiality of information and on a timely basis, determination of the disclosure and treatment of material Related party transactions information.
The Committee also has responsibility for the timely GlaxoSmithKline held a 23 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics ling of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Inc. throughout 2002.
This holding was reduced to 21 per cent contents of GlaxoSmithKlines Annual Report on Form 20-F. in February 2003 following Quests acquisition of Unilab Corporation.
In December 2002 GlaxoSmithKline and Quest CEO CFO Certications amended the terms of their Global Trials Agreement, which is Sarbanes-Oxley has introduced a requirement that the CEO and a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest is the the CFO must complete formal certications, which require primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support the conrmation that: Groups clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.
they have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F it contains no material misstatements or omissions In February 2002, Mr Ingram, then a member of the CET, the Financial statements and other financial information fairly purchased a portion of land being part of a residential property presents, in all material aspects, the financial condition, results owned by the Group that was adjacent to Mr Ingrams own of operations and cash ows for the period under the report residence.
The total sale price was $16,500 based on an they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure independent valuation of the land.
The Group subsequently controls and procedures that ensure material information is determined that retention of the residential property no longer made known to them and that they have evaluated the served its business needs and listed the property for sale.
An effectiveness of these controls and procedures within the past independent valuation of the property on 3rd June 2002 valued 90 days, the results of such evaluation being contained in it at $1,050,000 and the property was offered for sale through the report an estate agent.
Mr Ingram made the highest offer for the they have disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee property and purchased it from the Group for total all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design consideration of $1,070,000.
or operation of internal controls and any fraud regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant role in Documents on display the internal controls of GlaxoSmithKline Documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for they have indicated in the report whether there were any inspection at the Registered Ofce of the company.
significant changes in internal controls including any corrective actions.
The CEO and CFO have completed these certications which will be led with the SEC in the USA as part of the Groups Form 20-F.
