GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate Stephen Curran, 59, joined the Board in 1981.
He was appointed Chairman of governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
Candover Investments plc in May 1999, having previously been Chief Executive of Candover since January 1991.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, he was a The Board considers that it has complied throughout the period under review with the managing consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then an investment principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the combined code on corporate manager with what is now Cinven.
He is a non-executive director of Jarvis Hotels plc governance appended to the Listing Rules published by the UK Listing Authority and a number of unquoted companies.
the Combined Code, apart from the provisions relating to the length of executive directors notice periods.
During the period under review, the service contracts for both Sonia Elkin OBE, 70, is a former CBI Director, responsible for its Regional organisation of the executive directors contained a requirement that the Company give two years and policy in relation to Smaller Firms.
She was a Commissioner of the Manpower notice of termination.
With effect from 1 January 2003 the executive directors have Services Commission and served on a DTI committee on deregulation.
She is a agreed without compensation to a reduction in their notice periods to one year, save member of the Review Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
She joined that they will be entitled to a payment by way of liquidated damages calculated by the Board in 1992, is Chairman of the Audit Committee and has been appointed as the reference to a two year notice period if termination takes place within 12 months Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
following a change of control of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers Ian Gregg OBE, 63, qualified as a solicitor before joining the Company as Executive that such protection is reasonable for individuals who have given over 20 and 30 years Chairman and Managing Director on the death of his father in 1964.
He built the service respectively to the Company and who intend to continue to do so for the business up from a single-shop operation to a multi-divisional specialist retailer with remainder of their working lives.
almost 300 shops by the time of its successful flotation in 1984.
Following the The following statements describe how the relevant provisions of the Combined Code appointment of Mike Darrington as Managing Director in January 1984, Ian continued in are applied to the Company.
the role of Executive Chairman until July 1993.
He was then invited to become nonexecutive Chairman in order that the Board could avail itself of his unequalled experience The Board of both the industry and the Company.
Ian stepped down from the Chairmans role in The Board, under the non-executive chairmanship of Derek Netherton, meets regularly August 2002. to discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it reviews Group strategy, performance and Susan Johnson OBE, 45, was appointed to the Board in March 2000.
She obtained an matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the executive responsibility for running the MBA in 1993 after which she pursued a career in sales and marketing before being Companys business rests ultimately with the Managing Director, Mike Darrington, appointed as Chief Executive of the Northern Business Forum.
She is now an Executive the non-executive directors fulfil an essential role in that they ensure that the strategies Director of Yorkshire Forward.
proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and critically examined.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, all of the non-executive appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and considers that it effectively leads and directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from controls the Company.
any business or other relationship which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
As stated in the interim announcement issued on 2 August The Board currently comprises 2 executive and 5 non-executive directors as follows:- 2002, the Board is taking steps to add to the number of independent non-executive directors on the Board.
Derek Netherton Non-Executive Chairman, 58, spent his career in investment banking and retired in 1996 from his position as joint head of corporate finance at J Henry The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors must retire and seek Schroder & Co.
He is a non-executive director of Next plc, Hiscox plc, St Jamess Place re-election at the first AGM following appointment.
Thereafter, one half of the directors Capital plc, Plantation & General Investments plc and Life Assurance Holding & other than those appointed since the last AGM being those who have been in office Corporation Limited.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2002 and was longest since last re-election and any other director who has not been elected or appointed Chairman in August of the same year.
re-elected at either of the two preceding AGMs must seek re-election at each AGM.
Mike Darrington Managing Director, 61, qualified as a Chartered Accountant and then All directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at spent 17 years with United Biscuits, latterly in General Management.
During this time he the expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary.
attended the PMD course at Harvard Business School.
He joined Greggs in 1983 and All directors are appraised annually.
was appointed Managing Director in January 1984.
Malcolm Simpson Finance Director, 61, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with what is now KPMG and then worked for eight years within the finance department of Procter and Gamble Limited.
He joined the Company in 1973 and was appointed Financial Director in 1975.
40 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Board Committees Accountability, Audit and Going Concern.
The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable has written terms of reference: assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements contained in the Chairmans statement and Managing Directors report, which supplement The Audit Committee consists of three independent non-executive directors Sonia Elkin the statutory accounts themselves.
A statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Chairman, Susan Johnson and Stephen Curran.
It meets at least twice a year.
Its main the preparation of accounts is given on page 14. functions are to endeavour to ensure i that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: ii the integrity of the financial statements and The Audit Committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the Companys auditors, KPMG information published by the Company: and iii that the financial controls of the Audit Plc, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc Company are proper and effective.
The Committee, in performing these functions, does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that reviews the annual and interim financial statements issued to shareholders, compliance its objectivity is not impaired by such work non-audit fees amounted to 62,000 during with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
2002 and related mainly to taxation compliance advice.
The Company has an internal The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to audit function.
This assists in its monitoring of systems of control and augments the the independence and objectivity of the external auditors including the impact of any examination carried out by the external auditors.
non-audit work undertaken by them and their suitability for re-appointment.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has The Committee determines the scope of the external audit in discussion with the external adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For auditors and agrees their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee normally meets this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
with the Finance Director and the external auditors in attendance, although time is set aside annually for discussion between the Committee and the external auditors in the Risk Management.
absence of all executive directors.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive directors covers all aspects of the business, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, any such Ian Gregg Chairman, Stephen Curran, Sonia Elkin and Derek Netherton.
Its main system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to duties are to determine the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of achieve the Companys objectives and, therefore, is only able to provide reasonable, and employment, performance-related bonuses, share options and pension benefits of the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors regularly executive directors.
In order to assist with these duties the Committee has, during 2002, review the risks to which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation and used the services of external consultants, Monks Partnership.
The Committee is also effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
This is an ongoing process, involving the responsible for the operation of the Companys share option schemes.
The Directors identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Company.
Remuneration Report is set out on pages 35 to 39 of this Annual Report.
Key systems of the internal control system, which have been in place during the whole of the period under review, are:- The Nominations Committee comprises Derek Netherton - Chairman, Mike Darrington and Sonia Elkin.
Its main functions are to review the balance and constitution of the Board of Directors Board: to advise the Board as to whether directors retiring by rotation should be The Board takes a proactive approach to the management of all forms of risk, and nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the process for views risk management as a vital constituent of its role.
The Board holds five setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that scheduled meetings a year.
At each of these meetings the effectiveness of the controls specification and making recommendations to the Board in respect of all new Board relating to the most significant risks i. e. those which may restrict the Companys appointments.
ability to meet its objectives are monitored and reviewed.
Remedial action is determined where appropriate.
For some key risks, where it is felt necessary, Relations with shareholders.
specialist advice is sought from external agencies and professional advisers.
The Board There is regular dialogue with individual and institutional shareholders as well as general also reviews, at least annually, the level and scope of insurance cover maintained presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results.
The Board receives regular reports from Management on significant changes in the business and external environment which might affect the The AGM provides a forum for communication with investors, with the chairmen of the risk profile.
It has also set in place a system of regular hierarchical reporting which Board and its committees available to answer any issues raised.
provides for relevant details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution is indicated to be given to it.
after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
All substantial issues, including the adoption Management Board of the annual report and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
The Management Board, answerable directly to the Managing Director, is responsible for implementing decisions of the Main Board and providing protection against the major risks by various techniques, including sharing best practice, monitoring, supervision and training.
41 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Risk Committee Financial Reporting A Risk Committee, consisting of the heads of each management function within the The Company operates a comprehensive financial control system that incorporates business including Health and Safety, Food Safety, Personnel, Production and Divisional Financial Controllers who have responsibility for financial management Purchasing, has responsibility for analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding within each Division.
Each Divisional Financial Controller works closely with their the Companys risk environment, as well as devising a sound risk management respective Divisional Managing Director to monitor performance at Divisional Board strategy for review and approval by the Board.
The Risk Committee reports it findings level as against planned and prior year comparatives.
In addition, assets and liabilities and important changes to the Board on a regular basis through personal presentation, are scrutinised at several levels on a regular basis and remedial action taken where narrative reports and key performance indicators internal and external to the required.
A comprehensive annual planning process is carried out which determines organisation.
The Risk Committee also feeds the results of its assessments back into expected levels of performance for all aspects of the business.
Each Divisional the business planning for each division at least annually.
The risks are assessed on a Financial Controller also reports directly to the Finance Director.
regular basis across all functional areas but, in particular, the areas of Food Safety, Internal Audit Health and Safety, information flow, asset protection and Regulatory Requirements.
The internal audit function visits every Division at least once in every financial year Policies and Procedures and reviews performance of the Division across a range of financial and non-financial Policies and procedures, covering control issues across all aspects of the business, requirements, reporting findings to the relevant senior managers and direct to the are defined and communicated to the respective managers and staff at all levels.
Adherence is monitored and reported upon on an ongoing basis.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal Health and Safety control covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk The Company is committed to improving continuously the working environment with management, during the period under review.
the objective that accidents and work related ill health should be substantially reduced.
An occupational health strategy has been produced with Health and Safety Officers and Occupational Nurses appointed in every Division.
Targets are set and programmes are devised to implement them.
This approach involves a rigorous health assessment, during which hazards are identified, risks assessed, control measures applied and improvement actions agreed to manage residual risks to an acceptable level.
