Corporate governance The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
A report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors was issued in January 2003 by Mr D Higgs.
On the same date, Sir Robert Smith published his report on audit committees.
These reports represent an interesting contribution to the corporate governance debate and make recommendations for changes to the Combined Code which the Board will consider and respond to in due course.
The Board The Board is chaired by a non-executive director and comprises three other non-executive directors, each of whom is independent, and three executive directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the non-executive Chairman and Chief Executive.
Sir Chips Keswick is the senior non-executive director after the Chairman.
All non-executive directors are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them are regarded by the Board as independent of the executive management save for Mr G J Allen, who was an executive director before he became non-executive Chairman on 11 May 2001.
The independent non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details are shown on page 26.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
In addition, one third of the Board retire by rotation at each annual general meeting and each director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board normally meets formally six times a year and further meetings are convened as and when necessary.
There is regular communication between the Company and non-executive directors.
The Board reviews detailed budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Where appropriate, senior executives from around the Group are invited by the Board to attend meetings and join in discussion.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr B L Staples and all of the other three non-executive directors are members.
The committee meets at least twice a year and receives reports from the auditor who attends its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work includes reviewing the proposed external audit approach and monitoring the independence of the external auditor.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel are also invited to attend for certain parts of its meetings where the committee considers that to be appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least four times a year.
It is chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, Sir Chips Keswick, and its other members are Mr B L Staples and Mr J W Leng, each of whom is an independent non-executive director.
The committees main responsibilities are to determine the specific remuneration packages and terms of employment for each of the executive directors.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, who chairs the committee, the three independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition of, and appointments to, the Board.
During 2002 the committee had responsibility for identifying and recommending candidates for appointment as a non-executive director and received assistance from external consultants.
In November 2002 the Board accepted the committees recommendation to appoint Mr J W Leng, who joined the Board on 1 December 2002.
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all of the executive directors.
It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance and formulate proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders.
The 2002 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2002 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2001.
Notice of the 2002 annual general meeting was despatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution were disclosed at the meeting together with details of abstentions.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with Cazenove & Co contact details are shown on page 74.
In addition to the annual report, the Company issues an interim report to shareholders.
During 2001 the Company adopted a policy of issuing regular trading updates, one at the mid-year and another in December.
The Company has its own website - www.
com which includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and during the year the executive directors regularly met with investors.
30 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control accords with the relevant guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control including the nature and scope of external audit and internal financial reviews.
It also reviews the Group policy to select the adviser appropriate to the task taking into account location and cost and the need for auditor independence to be preserved and demonstrated.
The Group engages a variety of advisers for services such as due diligence, consultancy and tax advice.
Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are referred to the Executive Committee at least quarterly.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how it is proposed that those risks be managed.
Through this process business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their nature and urgency and the Board considers what measures would be appropriate in order to manage such risks.
The Board has clearly defined those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules and policies regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
All operating units prepare forward plans annually which make projections for a period of three years.
These plans are reviewed in detail by executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a centrally managed rolling programme of internal financial reviews which are documented and reported.
These are co-ordinated with the external audit process and additional annual reviews of selected operating units are carried out by Group finance personnel in conjunction with the external auditors.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee or the Board, as appropriate, according to their materiality.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance, legal and regulatory compliance.
Reports are made to the Board at least annually and more often, as appropriate, to keep the Board informed and enable it to consider internal control issues and developments.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2002 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Code of business principles and policies During 2002 the Board agreed to adopt a code of business principles and policies reflecting the high standards of conduct it expects of itself and employees across the Group.
The Board attaches great importance to good business practices and believes that ethical management will impact positively on returns for shareholders and corporate reputation.
The code is featured on the Companys website - www.
com By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 10 March 2003 31 IMI plc Annual Report 2002
