UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD IN 2002, WE CONTINUED TO GROW UK MARKET SHARE TO 42.9%, CONSOLIDATING STILL FURTHER OUR STRONG LEADERSHIP POSITION IN OUR LARGEST AND MOST PROFITABLE MARKET The UK market remained our largest and most profitable in the year In addition Reemtsmas UK subsidiary, Park Lane Tobacco Company, to September 2002, and once again has made a very significant which principally manufactures and sells private label cigarettes to contribution to the performance of the Group.
The combination of several leading wholesale and retail groups, was successfully integrated a relatively modest increase in excise duty, for the second year into Imperial Tobaccos UK sales and logistics functions.
running, and vigorous activity by HM Customs & Excise to curtail tobacco smuggling, has led to a more stable duty paid market, which Golden Virginia, now available in innovative resealable packaging, increased in size for the first time in many years.
In addition, we maintained its clear leadership of the roll your own tobacco market.
believe there has been a noticeable reduction in the proportion of By September 2002, Drum and Drum Milde had grown market share non-UK duty paid cigarette sales to around 25% of total to a combined level of 14.6%, maintaining Imperial Tobaccos overall consumption compared to 30% in 2001, although the recent increase share at 64.4%.
in indicative levels for UK travellers may impact on these trends.
We remain convinced that tobacco smuggling can only be satisfactorily Rizla continued to hold around three-quarters of the rolling papers addressed by a fundamental realignment of UK excise duty rates with market, supported this year by the introduction of Rizla Green and those prevailing in other mature markets of the world.
Rizla Red multipacks to leading supermarket groups.
In cigars, our share grew to 48.8% in September 2002 with good performances Against this background, Imperial Tobacco had another highly from Classic and the Small Classic range, while in pipe tobacco our successful year, recording further growth in cigarette market share market share was maintained at around 39%.
which rose from an average of 39.7% in 2001 to 42.9% in 2002, consolidating still further our UK market leadership.
We have continued to invest heavily in sales force technology and analysis tools, and we believe the information provided gives Lambert & Butler, Britains top selling cigarette brand family, grew Imperial Tobacco significant competitive advantage.
Our market share during the year to 16.1% in September 2002, while the merchandising equipment is installed in over 32,000 UK retail Richmond brand family has grown to become Britains second largest outlets and is supported by a comprehensive range and space selling range, capturing 10.9% of market by September 2002, in just planning service, acknowledged by retailers as the industry leader.
In September 2001, we commenced distribution of the Marlboro brand range in the UK for Philip Morris.
A year on, substantial gains in retail distribution have been achieved, with Marlboro Lights market United Kingdom Highlights share standing at its highest level to date of 5.6%.
2002 2001 Following the acquisition of Reemtsma, we launched Davidoff into Turnover ex.
duty m 764 691 the super premium sector in September 2002, to capitalise on the Operating profit m 390 353 reputation of our most internationally distributed brand.
1 Cigarette volumes bn 29.3 22.6 Roll your own 000s tonnes 1.8 1.7 1 Includes 4.1bn Marlboro and Raffles volume.
19 UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD Germany Highlights 2002 2001 Turnover ex.
duty m 274 62 Operating profit m 67 10 Cigarette volumes bn 13.7 1.0 Roll your own 000s tonnes 2.6 2.7 The German cigarette market is the largest in Western Europe and, Davidoff, positioned in the highly profitable premium sector, is the at 144bn cigarettes, is over twice the size of the UK.
Following the fastest growing brand family in Germany and by September 2002 acquisition of Reemtsma it is Imperial Tobaccos second principal achieved over 1% market share.
R1, a brand family with an market.
Although mature, it has seen slight growth over the last year, innovative filter system, maintained its market leadership in the ultra but has become increasingly competitive with the rise of private light sector, with a market share of 1.8%.
label and value brands and a recent significant excise tax increase.
Nevertheless the German market is highly profitable, second only to The Cabinet brand family, with its authentic East German heritage, the UK in Western Europe, and provides a solid profit base for the performed robustly against the challenge of private label brands.
a market share, in September 2002, of around 8.1% in East Germany, Cabinet is our number one brand in this region.
Peter Stuyvesant again Around a quarter of all branded cigarettes sold in Germany are made a significant contribution as one of our leading brands in the Reemtsma brands, including West, Davidoff, R1 and Cabinet.
Growth high price sector, with a market share of 2.3%.
in private label brands slowed during 2002 as the price gap with branded products narrowed.
Our share of the overall cigarette market As a result of the acquisition of Reemtsma, Imperial Tobacco became which had been under pressure during the year, averaging 20.3% the German market leader in other tobacco products, with a compared to 21.9% in 2001, now appears to be stabilising.
combined share of 45% in branded roll your own tobacco and make your own products.
As a result of the successful launch of the During the period, the West brand family retained its position as the innovative make your own product, West Singles, our combined second largest selling cigarette brand in Germany with a market share volume grew by more than 6% in a growing sector.
Wests market position in the mid price sector was strengthened by a reduction in its price differential with value brands, Our overall position in the German market is being further resulting from the recent duty increases, and it was supported by an strengthened as we combine our existing sales force and marketing advertising campaign, consumer promotions and events.
The West operations supported by a unified distribution network.
brand family was extended in September 2002 with the launch of West Presso, a new American blend concept.
With further duty increases due in January 2003 the West portfolio should be well placed to benefit from further narrowing of price differentials.
GERMANY, OUR SECOND LARGEST MARKET CONTINUED TO BE HIGHLY PROFITABLE DESPITE THE GROWTH OF PRIVATE LABEL AND VALUE BRANDS.
WEST, THE NUMBER TWO CIGARETTE BRAND FAMILY IN GERMANY RECORDED A MARKET SHARE OF 9.5%.
20 UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD Elsewhere in Western Europe, the acquired Reemtsma brands and Drum, the worlds number one roll your own tobacco, which infrastructures are further enhancing and complementing Imperial celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in 2002, performed robustly in The Tobaccos international scale and depth in the region.
Although the premium roll your own tobacco sector remains under pressure, Drum, now also available in an innovative resealable pouch, remains the clear market leader The underlying businesses remain strong.
Within the French contributing to a Group market share of just under 60%.
cigarette market, the successful launch of Route 66 in 2001 has enhanced our cigarette portfolio which, together with the JPS brand range, helped to grow our overall market share to 3.6% at the end of On European ferries and in the Eurotunnel market, we increased our the financial year, including the Reemtsma brands.
We also recorded leading share through category management initiatives.
Imperial significant growth in our roll your own tobacco share, achieving Tobacco also became the leading duty paid supplier to many key 29.6% of the market in September 2002 through the success of tourist airports within the EU including Alicante, Palma fide Mallorca Interval Blond, which is now Frances biggest selling roll your own and Amsterdam Schiphol.
With the integration of Reemtsma proceeding ahead of schedule, we We have delivered another encouraging performance in Southern are already starting to realise synergies as areas of duplication have Europe, particularly in Spain, where JPS American Blend grew been rationalised.
Revenues are also beginning to benefit from the strongly this year taking our overall blonde market share to 4.7%.
enhanced brand portfolios and established distribution networks, It is now the countrys second fastest growing brand, driven by supported by focused advertising and promotional expenditure.
distribution gains, enhanced retail display and supported by a series of successful consumer promotions.
Davidoff confirmed its position as the fastest growing brand in the Greek cigarette market, with a volume increase of 41% in 2002, growing sales for the fifth consecutive year.
In Ireland, we grew our overall market share to 31% including Marlboro at 6% during the year ended September 2002.
John Player King Size, Irelands number one brand for more than ten years, Rest of Western Europe Highlights widened its appeal with the launch of John Player 100s.
Lambert & 2002 2001 Butler is also establishing itself in the market with a share of over 1%.
duty m 495 429 Operating profit m 217 193 Cigarette volumes bn 14.2 11.6 WE CONTINUED TO GROW OUR MARKET PRESENCE Roll your own 000s tonnes 17.1 17.4 IN THE REST OF WESTERN EUROPE THROUGH OUR ENHANCED BRAND PORTFOLIO AND STRENGTHENED INFRASTRUCTURE WHILE SYNERGIES ARE BEING REALISED FROM THE RATIONALISATION OF SALES FORCE OVERLAP AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS.
21 UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REST OF THE WORLD In Central and Eastern Europe our strategy is to invest in, and The Ukraine, our largest market in the region, recorded encouraging develop, our international strategic brands including Davidoff and growth in international brands, particularly through the successful West, while building on the platform provided by regional and local development of Davidoff and R1 taking our share of consumption to strategic brands.
In addition, the recently launched Boss reached a market share of 1.3% in September 2002, complemented by a good performance from the Prima family particularly Prima Optima.
In Central Europe, which includes the markets of Poland, Slovenia, Hungary, Macedonia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we have maintained our position as the second largest tobacco company by In Russia, sales volumes grew by 44% year-on-year, driven by sales volume, with stronger performances from our strategic brands increases in the innovative West StreamTec brand and advances by compensating for some planned volume decline in traditional local Davidoff and R1, supported by newly introduced line extensions and brands.
Also, a number of markets in the region are increasing excise Maxim.
The expansion of the sales force organisation and supporting taxes in advance of joining the EU which, while having a negative infrastructure was completed and now provides a framework for impact on market volumes, has provided some beneficial pricing wider distribution of all the Groups brands in the market.
In Australia and New Zealand our market shares continued to Our sales in Poland have stabilised after a period of intense price grow, with cigarette market shares in 2002 averaging 17.9% and competition.
West continued to grow strongly and our overall share 17.7% respectively and roll your own tobacco shares averaging 61.4% was broadly held at around 18%.
In Slovenia, the most profitable and 24.3% respectively.
Through our focused approach and targeted market in the region, we maintained our strong position as market investment we continued to improve our position with enhanced leader, with growth in our market share to 76.5% in September retail trade displays, combined with innovative marketing and 2002, driven by the success of West, Boss and Davidoff.
Eastern Europe is our largest region by volume, and incorporates operations in the Ukraine, Russia and Kyrgyzstan which recorded significant sales volume improvement.
Rest of the World Highlights 2002 2001 Turnover ex.
duty m 686 292 Operating profit m 115 63 Cigarette volumes bn 62.5 20.7 Roll your own 000s tonnes 2.9 1.9 OUR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THIS KEY REGION FOR IMPERIAL TOBACCO REMAINS FOCUSED ON SELECTED PROFITABLE MARKETS WHERE WE SEE STRONG POTENTIAL FOR OUR STRENGTHENED BRAND PORTFOLIO.
