ANNUAL REPORT 2002 25 Corporate governance policies of the Group.
It maintains a PRINCIPLES OF GOOD The Board schedule of all matters requiring specific GOVERNANCE The Board met on seven occasions during Board approval.
Throughout 2002 this International Power is committed to high the year.
A balance between Executive and included all strategy decisions and standards of corporate governance.
In line Non-Executive Directors underpinned the significant capital investment proposals.
with the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, effectiveness of the Companys Board.
the following report explains how the In addition to the Chairman, the Board The Board receives information on Group has applied the Principles of Good currently consists of two Executive Directors capital expenditure projects and investment Governance and Code of Best Practice and four Non-Executive Directors.
For proposals in advance of Board meetings, contained in the Combined Code and 2002 the Board consisted of the Chairman, as well as management reports on the reports the Groups compliance with three Executive Directors and three operational and financial performance of the provisions contained in the Code.
Financial performance is monitored on a monthly basis and the Three Non-Executive Directors overall performance of the Group is Tony Isaac, Jack Taylor and Adri Baan reviewed against approved budgets.
are considered to be independent.
Peter Giller is not deemed to be independent All of the Directors have access to the owing to his previous role as Chief advice and services of the Company Executive Officer of the Company.
Secretary and to independent advice should they so wish.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association, The Company has established the all Directors submit themselves for refollowing committees: the Audit Committee, election at least every three years and the Remuneration and Appointments newly appointed Directors are subject Committee and the Risk Committee.
to election by shareholders at the first The Audit Committee comprising opportunity after their appointment.
the Chairman and all independent NonNewly appointed Directors receive Executive Directors is responsible for comprehensive briefing, and training selecting and fixing the remuneration of where appropriate, on the Company and the external auditors.
The Committee also their roles, to ensure that they are fully ensures policies and procedures are in place conversant with their responsibilities.
to ensure the external auditors remain The Board has responsibility for independent.
In addition to reviewing the defining strategy, ensuring the Groups accounts, results announcements, successful implementation of approved risk management and accounting policies, projects proposals and for the financial the Committee monitors the effectiveness Left: Bellingham, US Right: Milford, US 26 INTERNATIONAL POWER of internal control systems for the Board.
Relations with shareholders Internal control The Committee monitors the work of the The Board is accountable to shareholders The Board has responsibility for the internal audit function and its progress for the performance and activities of Groups system of internal control and against the Groups annual internal audit the Group.
for monitoring and reviewing plan, and also reviews reports from the its effectiveness.
International Power ensures that its external auditors.
The Audit Committee Annual General Meeting AGM provides Systems are in place to meet the meets at least three times a year.
The shareholders with an opportunity to receive requirements of the Combined Code Chairman of the Audit Committee is Tony comprehensive information on all aspects and the Turnbull Guidance.
He is a fellow of the Chartered of the Groups business activities, and to Institute of Management Accountants Any system of internal control is designed question senior management about and, before becoming Chief Executive of to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk business issues and prospects.
The BOC Group plc, was its group finance of failure to achieve business objectives.
All proxy votes are counted and the level The system can only provide reasonable, of proxy votes lodged for each resolution and not absolute, assurance against The Remuneration and is reported at the AGM.
In line with best material financial misstatement or loss.
Appointments Committee practice, the Company aims to ensure The principal features of the Groups comprising the Chairman and all that the Notice of the AGM and the systems of internal control are: independent Non-Executive Directors Annual Report are sent to shareholders was responsible throughout 2002, on Control environment at least 20 working days before the AGM.
behalf of the Board, for monitoring the The Board encourages a culture of performance of the Executive Directors International Power also runs, within integrity and openness.
The Company of the Company against targets and the terms of the regulatory framework, has an organisational structure with clear making recommendations to the Board frequent contact programmes with lines of accountability and authority across on remuneration, appointments and institutional investors, to discuss matters its worldwide operations, supported by matters of management succession.
of strategy and financial performance.
Each of Dennis Hendrix was Chairman of the All results presentations and all Stock the regional businesses is accountable to Committee until his retirement as a Exchange announcements are available the Chief Executive and is managed within Director on 23 May 2002, at which time to shareholders on the Companys the strategic guidelines and delegated Sir Neville Simms chaired the Committee website, www.
com, in the authorities adopted by the Board.
until Adri Baan succeeded him in 2003. investor relations section.
The Remuneration and Appointments Control procedures Accountability and audit Committee met six times during the year.
Control procedures have been established The Board is mindful of its responsibility in each of the Companys operations to From January 2003, separate Remuneration to present a balanced and understandable safeguard the Groups assets from loss and Appointments Committees, comprising assessment of International Powers or misuse and to ensure appropriate all independent Non-Executive Directors financial position and prospects, in all authorisation and recording of financial and the Chairman, have been established reports, both to investors and regulatory transactions.
Risk management procedures and are chaired by Adri Baan and Sir Neville authorities.
The Annual Report, interim are in place for the Companys operations, Simms respectively.
and quarterly results are the principal including its energy marketing and trading The Risk Committee comprising means of achieving this objective.
activities, which are overseen by the Global the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief An explanation of the respective Risk Manager.
The Group treasury function Financial Officer and senior managers responsibilities of the Directors and auditors operates under defined policies and the has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, in connection with the financial statements Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief for monitoring the effectiveness of the is set out on page 49.
The Directors set Financial Officer, monitors its activities.
out on page 48 the basis for their view All acquisition and investment decisions The Committee is also responsible for that the Group is a going concern.
are subject to disciplined investment monitoring health, safety and environmental appraisal processes.
During 2002 the Board carried out a performance in the Group, although a review of its performance.
This review separate management committee is will take place on an annual basis.
being established to oversee these issues.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee is Philip Cox.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 27 Performance reporting Risk identification and management within approved control limits.
This is and information accomplished through a range of physical There is a continuous process for offtake and supply arrangements.
Our identifying, evaluating and managing the key Corporate plan Executive management limited proprietary trading operations use risks faced by the Company.
Activities are submits an annual corporate plan to the a range of financial and physical products.
co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which Board for approval.
The plan for each has responsibility for ensuring the adequacy business unit is the quantified assessment Energy market risk on our asset and of systems for identifying and assessing of its planned operating and financial proprietary portfolios is measured using significant risks, that appropriate control performance for the next financial year, value at risk and other methodologies.
systems and other mitigating actions are together with strategic reviews for the Value at risk provides a fair estimate of in place, and that residual exposures are following four years.
Group management the net losses or gains which could be consistent with the Companys strategy review the plans with each operational recognised on our portfolios over a and objectives.
The individual plans are based on certain period and given a certain for all material entities.
key economic and financial assumptions probability: it does not provide an and incorporate an assessment of the risks indication of actual results.
It is routinely As part of the annual business planning and sensitivities underlying the projections.
checked for accuracy against actual process, the key risks associated with movements in the portfolio value.
In achievement of principal objectives are Performance monitoring Monthly addition to using value at risk measures, identified and their impact quantified.
performance and financial reports are we perform scenario analyses to estimate During the year, significant changes in the produced for each business unit, with the economic impact of sudden market risk profile are highlighted through the comparisons to budget.
Reports are movements on the value of our portfolios.
The principal consolidated for overall review by This supplements the value at risk risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee, executive management, together with methodology and captures additional which provides reports to the Board and forecasts for the profit and loss account market risks.
Detailed reports are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Monitoring Energy marketing and trading Performance review Each business The Board reviews the effectiveness of The principal objective of the Groups unit is subject to a performance review established internal controls through the energy marketing and trading operations with group management regularly during Audit Committee, which receives reports is to maximise the return from selling the year.
Actual results are compared to from management, the Risk Committee, the physical output of its plants.
budget and to financial forecasts.
Key the Groups internal audit function and the For each of the businesses that operate operational and financial results are external auditors on the systems of internal in merchant energy markets, local risk reviewed together with the risk profile and control and risk management arrangements.
committees have been established to business environment of the reporting unit.
Internal audit reviews the effectiveness of oversee the management of the market, Investment projects These are internal controls and risk management operational and credit risks arising from subject to formal review and authorisation through a work programme which is the marketing and trading activities.
These procedures with designated levels of based on the Companys objectives and committees are chaired by the Global authority, including a review by an risk profile and is agreed with the Risk Manager and comprise Executive investment appraisal committee Audit Committee.
Findings are reported Directors and senior managers.
comprising the Executive Directors and to operational and executive management, The Group hedges its physical generating senior managers.
Major projects are with periodic reporting to the capacity by selling forward its electrical subject to Board review and approval.
output, and purchasing its fuel input, as and when commercially appropriate and Left: Deeside Education Centre, UK Right: Malakoff, Malaysia 28 INTERNATIONAL POWER Business unit managers provide annual contract with the Company.
The Board Committee should be chaired by an self-certification statements of compliance considers that this arrangement is independent Non-Executive Director with procedures.
These statements give appropriate as it ensures Peter Gillers and that no one Non-Executive Director assurance that controls are in operation experience and knowledge are still should sit on all three principal Board and confirm that programmes are in place available to the Company.
The Higgs Report, however, to address any weaknesses in internal recognises that practical considerations In all other respects, the Company control.
The certification process embraces mean that compliance with certain has complied with the provisions of all areas of material risk.
Internal Audit recommendations may take time the Combined Code throughout the reviews the statements and reports any to achieve.
significant issues to the Audit Committee.
The recommendations of the Higgs Future developments Report are expected to be incorporated Compliance with the We have reviewed the reports from in the Combined Code and we will Combined Code Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness make the necessary disclosures in On 1 October 2000 Peter Giller became of Non-Executive Directors and from the our next Annual Report.
Chief Executive Officer on a fixed threeFinancial Reporting Council led by Sir year service contract.
This contract was Robert Smith on audit committees, both terminated on 31 December 2002. of which were published recently and after During the period of Peter Gillers service our year end.
We believe that our present as Chief Executive Officer, the Board governance arrangements meet many of considered that the service contract was the recommendations of the reports and appropriate given the stage of the most of the exceptions simply require the Companys development and Peter Gillers inclusion of further information within our experience and knowledge of the market Annual Report or would require small in which the Group operates.
His changes to achieve compliance.
remuneration was paid entirely in shares The compositions and roles of our Board as described in the remuneration report.
committees meet the requirements of the On 1 January 2003, Peter Giller became Higgs and Smith reports in most respects, Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive although the Chairman currently leads the Director.
This contract can be terminated Appointments Committee and all Nonby the Company on or after 31 December Executive Directors are members of each 2003.
On termination Peter Giller is entitled of the committees.
The Higgs Report to enter into a two-year consultancy recommends that the Appointments Left: Hartwell, US Right: Hazelwood.
Australia ANNUAL REPORT 2002 29 Dan is responsible for contracting the output and managing the pool market operations of our South Australian assets, Pelican Point and Synergen.
Dan Foster, Trading Officer Melbourne, Australia 30 INTERNATIONAL POWER Jir and Jirina were both part of the team that successfully handled the investigation into the collapse of the roof of the boiler house at EOP.
Jir Zuscic, a member of the Technical Department and Jirina Brikov, translator EOP, Czech Republic
