Corporate governance The Intertek Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
Prior to the IPO the Companys predecessor in the business, Intertek Testing Services Limited was compliant with all aspects of the Combined Code, other than: having a majority of the Non-Executive Directors who were independent of management.
providing Terms of Reference to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
formalising procedures whereby Directors could obtain independent legal advice.
as an unlisted Company, there was no requirement to re-appoint Directors.
Since 29 May 2002, when the Companys shares were first quoted on the London Stock Exchange, the Company has been fully in compliance with all the provisions set out in the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Directors The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, one other executive Director, two independent Non-Executive Directors and one other Non-Executive Director.
The senior independent Director is DP Allvey.
The Directors biographies appear in the Annual Review.
The four Non-Executive Directors have a range of experience bringing judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out in the Directors Report.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only against the best long term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper account of the interests of employees, customers and suppliers.
All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
To enable them to do this all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
In addition the Audit Committee controls the authority limits of various levels of the senior management team, including requiring that certain matters be subject to prior Board approval.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and there is frequent contact between meetings to develop the Companys business.
A detailed annual review of Group strategy takes place at which senior management from each Division and geographical area make presentations to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors fulfill a vital role in corporate accountability.
The memberships of the three relevant Board Committees are set out below.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which met four times during the year, comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors, currently DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
The Committee has responsibility for, among other things, the planning and review of the Groups annual report and accounts and half-yearly reports and the involvement of the Groups auditors in that process, 28 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
com focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the rules of the UK Listing Authority and ensuring that an effective system of internal financial control is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and the interim report remains with the Board.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors, currently DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and of senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments and implementation of employee share schemes.
The committee met five times in 2002.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors, currently five Treves Chairman, DP Allvey and RE Sayers.
This Committee, which normally meets at least once a year, nominates candidates to fill Board vacancies and makes recommendations to the Board on the balance and composition of the Board.
The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the Remuneration report on page 22.
All the above committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of reference as approved by the Board.
Internal control The Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board can confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Groups short and long term value, including those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
No material breaches of any such policies were identified during the year.
It seeks to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate response to such issues.
In carrying out that review the Board is satisfied that it received adequate information from its operations around the world.
Training is provided to Directors in these matters where necessary.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
This has been reinforced by the adoption of a Code of Ethical Business Conduct, approved by the Board, which provides practical guidance and instruction for staff.
The Group operates a Zero Tolerance Policy in regard to breach of ethics and employees are required to sign a certificate confirming their understanding that any breaches of the Groups code of ethics will result in disciplinary action which may include dismissal of the employee concerned.
To support Group policies there is an independent telephone hotline so that staff may report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices.
In carrying out its review the Audit Committee endeavours to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
Each operating division, in association with the Risk Management Committee described on page 30, is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risk applicable to that area of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
29 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
com Corporate governance These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides for a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by internal audit who also provide a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
Each division reports annually to the Audit Committee via the Vice President Compliance on their review of risks and how they are managed.
The Audit Committees main role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed.
The Vice President Compliance heads a central compliance team which co-ordinates the quality assurance function, internal financial audit and claims management.
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the findings reported to divisional management and to centrally controlled compliance officers who report to the Vice President Compliance.
Each division has at least one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or by other means such as the employee hotline.
Reports of findings are presented to the Audit Committee.
Each geographic region has its own internal financial auditor who is independent of the divisions.
Each reporting site is visited at least every eighteen months.
The Group has implemented internal audit systems to facilitate compliance with applicable requirements of the FCPA, the OFAC and OECD and similar laws and regulations affecting conduct of its business.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment, which could impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key performance against budget and forecasts, risk indicators and compliance with covenants.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management, the Risk Management Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board approves treasury policy and that departments activities are also subject to internal and external audit.
The Risk Management Committee comprises the Chairman of the Audit Committee, currently DP Allvey, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President Compliance.
It meets regularly and reviews the annual assessment of group risk management and control process and considers the: authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group including social, environmental and ethical matters: controls for the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: and maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
Additionally, the Risk Management Committee monitors all changes made to procedures and follows up on areas that require improvement.
It reports to the Audit Committee annually or more frequently should the need arise.
30 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
com Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Company produces an Annual Review which is sent to shareholders together with the Annual Report and Accounts.
At the half year, an Interim Report is published.
The Company also has a website www.
com which contains up to date information on the Groups activities and published financial results.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Companys Preliminary Announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Board proposes to use the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Social responsibility The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates and that a failure to do so could adversely impact on the Groups long and short term value, as a result of financial penalty and loss of customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously, paying due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
The Group provides equal opportunity for all its staff irrespective of their ethnic or religious background, sex, sexual orientation or disability.
Appropriate health and safety measures have been established and are operated throughout the Group.
The operation of such measures are kept under regular review by local compliance officers.
Any incidents are investigated by a central team of specialists, which makes recommendations to avoid a repetition.
The Group actively seeks to provide good employment opportunities and conditions for all staff and it is part of the corporate culture to hire, train and develop employees and managers from local communities.
On behalf of certain customers, the Group monitors manufacturers of goods from developing countries to ensure that work practices and factory conditions are legal, humane and ethical, including ensuring that no enforced or child labour is used.
No use is made of live animals in any of the tests carried out by the Group.
Environmental matters The Group is committed to preventing any adverse impact on the environment as a result of its operations.
There can be the potential for an environmental impact associated with various parts of its business.
The Groups worldwide risk management team is tasked with identifying all such potential risks and introducing procedures to prevent such an occurrence.
Use is also made of a third party to carry out a triennial global environmental survey of all Group operations to determine whether procedures are being properly implemented and to advise on further precautionary measures.
A policy of zero tolerance for non-compliance with such procedures is enforced and regular checks are carried out to ensure compliance.
In certain cases the Group occupies facilities where pollution occurred prior to the Groups use of the site.
In each case the Group has implemented remedial works, on the advice of third party specialists, to minimise further damage to the environment.
31 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
