CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate Communications with shareholders governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
This Representatives of the company have regular meetings and dialogue report sets out how the principles identified in the Combined Code with institutional shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting is have been applied to the company.
considered to be an important forum for communicating with private shareholders, allowing them to raise questions with the board.
Statements of compliance The company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code Going concern throughout the year, with the exception of provisions relating to the The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the companys appointment of a senior independent director: this is dealt with below.
financial resources through a review of the companys budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital expenditure plans and The board of directors cash flow forecasts, and have satisfied themselves that the company The board is made up of the executive chairman, the managing will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this director, two other executive directors and three non-executive reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing directors.
The members of the board are described on page 16, and the companys financial statements.
the board considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent of the executive team and of the company, which Risk assessment provides a good balance for the proper governance of the company.
To ensure that the company has an ongoing process for identifying, The board meets formally at least eight times each year, with other evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company, meetings as appropriate, and has a formal schedule of matters the board has established a risk-management group which contains reserved to it for decision.
Directors are given appropriate and timely senior representatives from all aspects of the business and is chaired information for each board meeting, including monthly reports on the by the finance director.
This group is responsible for the administration current financial and trading position of the business.
of a risk register which looks at all areas of the business and formulates detailed action plans to mitigate any risks identified.
The roles of the executive chairman and the managing director are separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear division of On behalf of the board, the audit committee reviews the responsibilities.
effectiveness of the risk-management group and, where appropriate, identifies any matters requiring specific consideration by the board.
No senior independent director was nominated during the year, as the Similarly, the audit committee reviews the scope of the work board did not consider it appropriate, owing to the considerable undertaken by the internal audit department and receives regular experience of all of the non-executive directors.
Subsequent to the updates on its work and findings and monitors the implementation of year end, as recommended by the Combined Code, John Herring was recommended actions.
appointed as the senior non-executive director.
This process has been in place throughout the year under review All directors have access to independent professional advice, if and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
required, at the companys expense.
The directors responsibilities in It has been regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the respect of the financial statements are detailed on page 17.
The articles require that one-third of directors retire by rotation subject Internal control to the requirement that each director seeks re-election every three The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the companys years.
system of internal control, which can be defined as the controls established in order to provide reasonable assurance that the assets Nomination committee have been protected against unauthorised use, that proper A formal nomination committee has not been established: accounting records have been maintained and that the financial nominations for appointment are considered by the chairman and information which is produced is reliable.
Such a system can, non-executive directors.
however, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors recognise that in Audit committee attaining long-term shareholder value, they are responsible for The audit committee comprises all of the non-executive directors providing a return which is consistent with a responsible assessment and is chaired by John Herring.
The committee meets at least three and mitigation of risks.
times a year with the external auditors and one or more executive directors, as appropriate.
The audit committee is responsible for The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility to be reviewing the companys internal controls, risk-management discharged are as follows: procedures and the audit process and seeks to ensure that the financial and non-financial information supplied to shareholders is A comprehensive budgeting process is in place, with a detailed complete and accurate and presents a balanced assessment of the operating plan for 12 months and a mid-term financial plan, both companys position.
The committee reviews the objectivity and approved by the board.
Business results are reported weekly for key independence of the external auditors and also considers the scope items and monthly in all and compared with budget.
Forecasts are of their work and their fees.
prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board.
Remuneration committee Clearly defined authority limits and controls are in place over cashThe remuneration committee is made up of all of the non-executive handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditures.
directors and is chaired by Brian Jervis.
The remuneration committee is responsible for determining the policy for the remuneration of the A retail audit function monitors the control of cash, stock and executive directors and for determining individual remuneration operating procedures in operating units.
function also looks at the overall business risks facing the company and reviews general business processes.
The remuneration report on pages 20 and 21 gives full details of the companys policy and of directors remuneration packages.
Complex treasury instruments are not used.
Decisions on treasury matters are reserved for the board.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
