Corporate Governance The Board considers that maintaining high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group, including compliance with the Combined Code the Code, is central to achieving the Groups objective of maximising shareholder value.
The Code is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and requires directors to review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
This statement explains how the Group has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Board of Directors Sir Ian Wood currently holds the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
As a result of his substantial shareholding in the Group, the Board believes Sir Ian Woods interests are very closely aligned with those of the Groups other shareholders and accordingly the combining of these roles is in the interests of both the Group and its shareholders.
The Board comprises ten directors, five executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Dr. Christopher Masters is the senior independent director on the Board.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and as a result the Board considers that there is a satisfactory balance of decision-making on the Board.
All directors must submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board meets at least four times a year and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
It is responsible for the overall Group strategy, review of trading performance, approval of significant acquisitions and major financing decisions.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information from management to enable it to perform its duties.
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to committees, all of which have approved terms of reference.
There is a procedure whereby any director can take independent professional advice at the companys expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When decisions are taken on the implementation of the Higgs and Smith recommendations Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and Audit Committees - Combined Code Guidance and these are incorporated into a revised Combined Code, the Board will determine appropriate proposals for implementation by the Group.
Committees of the Board The principal committees of the Board are set out below.
Audit Committee - The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and the Deputy Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors are normally in attendance.
The Committees duties include the review of the Groups half-year and annual reports, the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and the role, scope and performance of the internal and external auditors.
Remuneration Committee - The Remuneration Committee, which comprises three independent non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It is responsible for reviewing the Groups executive remuneration policy and, specifically, the determination of the remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
The Committee also considers grants under the Groups share option schemes.
Nominations Committee - The Nominations Committee, which consists of the Chairman of the Board and two independent non-executive directors, meets at least once a year to consider the composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors.
John Wood Group PLC 29 Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders The Group maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional and other major shareholders throughout the year and also uses the annual general meeting as an opportunity to answer shareholders questions.
Statement of Compliance with the Code For the reasons explained above, the Board is satisfied that it has complied with the Code provisions since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in June 2002.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull working party report: Internal Control - Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The procedures which the directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: Control environment - The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued Group Policies, including an ethics policy, to define the standards of business conduct.
Risk management - Each Business Unit management team is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of significant operational, financial and compliance risks, and for the design and operation of effective internal controls.
The Board receive regular updates from management on the key risks and the related controls.
In addition the Board formally reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks twice a year.
Information and communication - The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial performance to the executive directors on a monthly basis and to the full Board on a quarterly basis.
The monthly results are reported against the approved budget and revised forecasts, which are prepared at least twice a year.
In addition, each Business Unit performs a quarterly Performance and Strategic Appraisal, including an update on changes to key risks and the related controls, and discusses it twice a year with the executive directors, including the Chairman and Chief Executive and the Deputy Chief Executive.
Monitoring of the internal control systems - The Board has agreed reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
A quarterly self certification by each company is also used to monitor the quality of the internal financial controls.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Committee Guidance referred to above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures and does not include our associated company.
30 John Wood Group PLC Going Concern Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are required by UK law to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of that period and of the profit of the Group for that period.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group's website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
