Remuneration Report Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Remuneration Report to Shareholders Management Development and Remuneration Committee and its Terms of Reference The Management Development and Remuneration Committee the Committee of the board comprises all the non-executive directors of the company as set out on pages 22 and 23.
Mr Retief retired from the Committee on 30th September 2001 and Mr Strachan joined the Committee on 23rd January 2002.
The Committees terms of reference are to determine on behalf of the board fair remuneration for the executive directors, which, while set in the context of what the company can reasonably afford, recognises their individual contributions to the companys overall performance.
The Committee also believes strongly that remuneration policy should be completely aligned with shareholder interests.
In addition the Committee assists the board in ensuring that the current and future management of the group are recruited, developed and remunerated in appropriate fashion.
The Committee also reviews the amount of profit to be appropriated to the companys employee share participation schemes.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board, within the limits prescribed by the companys Articles of Association.
Executive Remuneration Policy The Committee recognises that, in order to maximise shareholder value, it is necessary to have a competitive pay and benefits structure.
The Committee also recognises that there is a highly competitive market for successful executives and that the provision of appropriate rewards for superior performance is vital to the continued growth of the business.
To assist with this the company, on behalf of the Committee, receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies in each country in which Johnson Matthey has operations.
Total potential rewards are earned through the achievement of demanding performance targets based on measures which represent the best interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy was reviewed by the Committee in 2001 and consists of basic salary, annual bonus, a long term incentive plan, share options and other benefits as detailed below.
Following a comprehensive review in 2000 01 shareholder approval was obtained for the introduction of a new employee share option scheme and for certain changes to the companys existing Long Term Incentive Plan.
Executive directors remuneration consists of the following: Basic Salary which is in line with the median market salary for each directors responsibilities as determined by independent surveys.
Basic salary is normally reviewed on 1st August each year and the Committee takes into account individual performance during the year.
Annual Bonus which is paid as a percentage of basic salary under the terms of the companys Executive Compensation Plan which also applies to the companys 150 or so most senior executives.
The executive directors bonus award is based on consolidated profit before tax PBT compared with the annual budget.
An annual bonus payment of 30% of basic salary prevailing at 31st March is paid if the group meets the annual budget.
This bonus may rise to 50% of basic salary if the group achieves PBT of 107.5% of budget.
There is a provision that a maximum 105% of basic salary may be paid to the Chief Executive and 85% to other executive directors if 125% of budgeted PBT is achieved.
PBT must reach 95% of budget for a minimum bonus to be payable.
The Committee has discretion to vary the awards made.
The bonus awarded to executive directors in 2001 02 was 25.2% of salary at 31st March 2002.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP, introduced in August 1998, is designed to achieve above average performance and growth.
Shares are allocated to directors and key executives subject to performance conditions being met.
For shares allocated in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 the number of shares released to the individual is dependent upon growth in Johnson Mattheys relative total shareholder return TSR compared with the FTSE 250 over a three year performance period.
Earnings per share EPS is used as a second performance measure and requires an increase in EPS to be at least equal to the increase in UK RPI plus 2% p. a. over the performance period.
100% of the allocated shares will be released to the individual if the companys relative TSR is in the 75th percentile or above: 35% will be released at the 51st percentile.
Pro-rata allocations will be made for performance between these percentiles.
No shares will be released at or below 50th percentile performance.
In 2001 shareholder approval was obtained for certain changes to the LTIP.
The LTIP will continue to provide for the release of shares based on the companys ranking in terms of TSR relative to the TSR of the FTSE 250 companies and EPS measure, as described above, but such performance targets will only apply to one half of the shares awarded.
The other half of the shares placed under an award will be released dependent upon the achievement of an absolute TSR.
The absolute TSR test is that no shares will be released should TSR performance achieved over a three year period be less than 30%.
This rises to 100% being released should TSR performance over a three year period be 45% or more.
In determining the precise number of shares to be released at the conclusion of the performance period, the LTIP trustee will also take into account the underlying financial performance of the company.
Remuneration Report 28 -29 Johnson Matthey Executive Remuneration Policy continued Share Options Option grants were not made to executive directors in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000.
Previously, options were granted to executive directors under the 1985 scheme under which the final grant was made in November 1994 and the 1995 schemes with the latter having a performance threshold target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 2% over a three year period.
Options under all the schemes were granted in annual tranches, up to the maximum permitted of four times earnings.
Following the review by independent remuneration consultants, the Committee obtained shareholder approval in 2001 for the introduction of a new employee share option scheme, known as the Johnson Matthey 2001 Share Option Scheme.
The executive directors and approximately 700 employees are awarded an annual grant of share options under the terms of this scheme.
For executive directors the Committee will award options annually up to a normal maximum of basic salary.
The options will only be exercisable upon the achievement of appropriate performance targets.
For the first grant the performance target will be based on a growth in EPS which is at least 4% p. a. over the rate of increase in the UK RPI over any three year period.
The Committee has the discretion to alter the performance targets for future options after consultation with institutional investors, but not so as to make the targets less challenging.
Pensions All the executive directors are members of the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme.
Under the scheme, members are entitled to a pension based on their service and final pensionable salary subject to Inland Revenue limits.
The scheme also provides life assurance cover of four times annual salary.
The normal pension age for directors is 60.
None of the non-executive directors are members of the scheme.
Details of the individual arrangements for executive directors are given on page 30.
Other Benefits Available to the executive directors are private medical insurance, a company car and membership of the companys employee share participation schemes which are open to all employees in the countries in which the company operates such schemes.
Service Contracts Messrs Clark, Sheldrick and Titcombe are employed on contracts subject to two years notice at any time, which the Committee considers appropriate in the overall context of their terms of employment.
As Mr Titcombe will retire from the board on 24th September 2002, when he reaches his normal retirement age, only three months of his contract remain.
Messrs Carson and Morgan, who were appointed to the board on 1st August 1999, are employed on contracts subject to one years notice at any time.
In the event of early termination, the Committee strongly endorses the principle of requiring those directors on two years notice to mitigate their loss.
Remuneration Directors Emoluments 2001 2 Total Total prior year excluding excluding Fees Salary Annual bonus Benefits pension pension 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive C R N Clark 513 134 24 671 735 N A P Carson 201 53 26 280 287 D W Morgan 189 49 19 257 277 J N Sheldrick 272 71 19 362 400 D G Titcombe 288 75 26 389 427 1 Non-Executive H M P Miles Chairman 165 16 181 150 M B Dearden 33 33 28 H E Fitzgibbons 33 33 28 H R Jenkins 37 37 28 C D Mackay 33 33 28 2 P F Retief 17 17 28 3 I C Strachan 6 6 Notes: 1 Non-executive directors fees are reviewed every three years and were last reviewed on 1st April 2001 for all non-executives and on 1st October 2001 for the Chairman.
The annual bonus above is stated on an earned basis, i. e. in relation to performance in the year in question.
Benefits are shown as the assessment to tax for each director arising from the provision of a company car and for the executive directors, private medical insurance, plus the cost of company contributions to the Johnson Matthey Share Participation Scheme.
Executive directors may, with the consent of the board, normally accept one and a maximum of two external directorships and retain any related remuneration.
