35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of Compliance with The Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except for non compliance with Code Provision B.
1.7 which states that service contracts for Executive Directors should be one year or less.
However, on 1 January 2003, the Remuneration Committee agreed with Mr T J Bowdler to vary the terms of his service contract from two years to one year.
At the Annual General Meeting the Company will be fully compliant with the Code of Best Practice.
Statement of Application of The Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied The Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Board Effectiveness The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading and controlling the Company by meeting nine times in the year, but can meet when necessary for any matters which may arise.
It also arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to visit the Groups principal locations at certain intervals to discuss the operations with local management.
Division of Responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive The Board acknowledges the division of responsibilities for running the Board and managing the Companys business with Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Harry Roche as Senior Independent Director and Mr T J Bowdler as the Companys Chief Executive.
Sir Harry Roche has decided to retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2004 and Mr P E B Cawdron will succeed him as Senior Independent Director.
3.2 requires that the majority of Non-Executive Directors should be independent.
Of the Companys current eight Directors, two are Executive and the remainder Non-Executive, of whom four are regarded as independent.
Those who are regarded as non-independent are Mr F P M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston who have significant shareholdings in the Company.
However, it is the view of the Board that such circumstances do not lessen the value of the contributions made by these two Non-Executive Directors.
The Company over the past few years has increased the number of independent Non-Executive Directors from one to four while the number of non-independent Non-Executives has reduced to two.
The Company has a Nomination Committee to make recommendations on the appointment of further independent Non-Executive Directors.
Supply of Information The Board receives a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, such as future strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure, trading and capital budgets and Group borrowing facilities.
The Board considers monthly reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director of Operations and Minutes of the Board are circulated to all Board members.
It has also made the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information.
Re-election Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but have letters of appointment.
They are appointed for an initial term of three years and at the end of that period, their re-appointment for a further period of three years is formally considered by the Board.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders The Directors encourage and seek to build up a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders.
As part of this process, the Chief Executive and Finance Director make twice yearly presentations to institutional investors and meet with shareholders to discuss any issues of concern and to obtain feedback.
In addition, they communicate regularly throughout the year with those shareholders who request a meeting.
36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued Annual General Meetings The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
It uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation.
Financial Reporting The Board has shown its commitment to presenting appropriate information about the Companys financial position by complying with non-mandatory statements issued by the Accounting Standards Board relating to the operating and financial review which is included in this Annual Report.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk of failure in achieving business objectives will be eliminated, but the system has been designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
There is a continuous process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
This process is well documented and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The key elements of the process during the period under review have been: Formal Board reporting on a monthly basis by the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director of Operations on the Groups performance and on any emerging risks and issues.
The monthly management accounts break down the results of the Groups operation by each companys performance and all significant variations against budget and the previous year are fully examined.
The day-to-day responsibility for managing each of the Groups operations rests with local experienced senior managers and the Group has a clear organisational structure which includes appropriate delegation of authority.
The Executive Directors ensure that regular contact is made with all senior managers.
The Group Management Committee comprising the Executive Directors, the Director of Operations, the Company Secretary, the Director of Human Resources and the Business Development Manager met every month to review the financial and operational issues as well as risks facing the Group.
Formal Board approval for capital expenditure over 250K and for other investment decisions.
Approval was granted for all acquisitions and disposals.
Formal Board approval of the annual budget for the forthcoming financial year.
These are detailed and comprehensive budgets, covering each operating business.
Review by the Audit Committee on a six-monthly basis of the work performed by the Internal Financial Control Committee IFCC based on a programme of work agreed in advance.
The IFCC is chaired by the Company Secretary who is responsible for the conduct of control reviews in selected locations by members of the committee who are independent of the location visited.
The IFCC is also responsible for the review of detailed financial control checklists submitted by each operation to head office monthly.
Review by the Audit Committee of the results of the annual audit and review of the half-year results by the Groups external auditors.
These reviews included discussion of any control weaknesses or internal issues identified by the auditors.
The conduct of risk assessment involving senior management of all the Groups businesses in addition to the Groups Executive Directors.
The results of these assessments are summarised and results reported to the main Board Directors.
These risk assessment sessions will continue at each operation and will continue to evaluate the risks faced.
During 2002 there has been a particular focus on updating all disaster recovery plans, introducing best practice workflows and reviewing management succession.
In addition, the head office of the Group has the ongoing responsibility to set policies, procedures and standards as detailed in the Groups policy guidelines, which have been fully updated following the acquisition of Regional Independent Media Holdings Ltd.
These include: Finance Cash treasury controls Trading Customer service, information and technology Property management Human resources including pension administration, health and safety and environmental issues Legal and regulatory compliance XX 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 At its meeting on 31 January 2003, the Board considered the means by which it monitors internal controls and concluded that it was satisfied with its process for monitoring internal controls and that this process complies with the recommendations of the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
The Directors also reviewed the need for an internal audit department and concluded that they did not believe it necessary for the Group to maintain such a department, given the current independent review and monitoring procedures in operation.
Health and Safety The Group regards the promotion of health, safety and welfare measures as an essential part of management and employer responsibilities.
Good health and safety management is fundamental to good business performance.
Full detailed health and safety policies have been adopted within each of the Groups operations, with named individuals responsible for the implementation and adherence to that policy.
This policy is reviewed and updated for any changes in legislation.
All employees are made aware of the policy and their responsibility to ensure its efficient operation.
Local health and safety committees meet regularly covering all the Groups operations, with an appointed officer to ensure any issues discussed are actioned as appropriate.
Training is made available to these committees to ensure awareness and understanding.
The Group has appointed external consultants to inspect its operations on a rotational basis to report on the local implementation of its Health and Safety Policy.
This report is forwarded to the Groups head office as well as the individual company and a local management response is required to address all issues raised.
This same practice also applies to the efficient management of the Groups freehold and leasehold properties ensuring all property risks at each location are identified and minimised.
Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Audit Committee The Company has an Audit Committee of three Non-Executive Directors chaired by Sir Harry Roche which also comprises, Mr P E B Cawdron and Mr H C M Johnston who meet twice a year or as necessary.
The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority and duties.
During 2002 the Committee held additional meetings to oversee the appointment process and selection of the new external auditors as explained in the Financial Review on page 28.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and the Minutes of the Committee are circulated to all Board members.
The Finance Director normally attends the meetings.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are also invited to attend if required to do so by the Committee.
The Companys external auditors and the Chairman of the Internal Financial Control Committee also attend the meetings at which the Committee considers the Companys half-year and final results and any other matters which it feels necessary to discuss.
Before the meeting closes, the Committee meets privately with the external auditors.
Nomination Committee This Committee is chaired by Mr R G Parry and includes Sir Harry Roche, Mr F P M Johnston and Mr P E B Cawdron.
Its duty is to seek suitable candidates as Non-Executive Directors and oversee all Board appointments.
