14 Kidde plc 2002 corporate governance statement BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Before making appointments, the Committee undertakes an Board evaluation of the requirements of the Board, taking account of The Board is ultimately responsible for the direction and management existing skills and experience, and prepares a description of the of the Company.
It discharges those responsibilities through defined position and requisite qualifications and advertises through structures set out in a written Code of Boardroom Practice and Board external advisers.
These set out the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director, non-executive directors, Senior Independent The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year, Director and divisional managing directors.
is chaired by John Poulter and comprises solely independent The Code also sets out matters which are reserved for Board approval, non-executive directors.
The Committee met four times in 2002 and such as matters relating to the strategic and financial direction there was full attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman, Chief of the Company, including the approval of the annual budget and Executive and Group HR Executive may attend meetings at the corporate plan, risk management and corporate social responsibility invitation of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the strategies, acquisitions and disposals, appointments to the Board assessment and approval of a broad remuneration strategy for the and the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Group and to determine short and long-term incentive pay structures for the Companys executive directors and executive management.
The Board reviews, on a regular basis, the matters reserved for it, the terms of reference and delegated authorities of its committees, Audit Committee and the procedures relating to the servicing of the Board in respect The Audit Committee, which meets at least twice a year, is chaired of meetings and the provision of information.
by Michael Kirkwood and comprises the other non-executive directors.
The Committee met twice in 2002.
Mr Gummer was The Board meets 11 times a year and full attendance at Board unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
and Committee meetings is encouraged.
During the year, there was The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Group Internal full attendance, other than as follows: Mr Poulter was unable to Audit and external auditors may attend meetings at the invitation attend one meeting, Mr Gummer was unable to attend one meeting of the Committee.
and, until his retirement, Sir Michael Bishop was unable to attend two meetings.
The purpose of the Committee is to ensure the preservation of good financial practices throughout the Group: to monitor that controls are The Chairman seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors receive in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported timely, relevant information, tailored to their needs and that they are to shareholders and to provide, by way of regular meetings, a line of properly briefed on the issues arising at Board meetings so that they communication between the Board and the external auditors.
can make an effective contribution as Board members.
In addition to formal meetings, the Board receives at least four divisional business Executive Committee presentations each year and attends operational site visits.
The Board delegates authority for the day-to-day operational management of the Companys business to the Executive Committee, Committees which meets regularly, in accordance with the needs of the business.
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees of The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the the Board, each of which has written terms of reference.
Group Finance Director, divisional managing directors, Director of Nomination Committee Business Development, Director of Technology and the Company The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd and Secretary.
Other representatives from the Kidde Group and external comprises the other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
guests are invited to attend as required.
The Committee meets periodically as required.
The Committee is The purpose of the Committee is, on behalf of the Board, to review responsible for reviewing the Board structure, size and composition operational activities and policy issues of the Group, focusing on and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any the review of trading results and forecasts and activity relating to adjustments: for identifying and nominating candidates for the acquisitions and disposals.
It is also to provide information on, and approval of the Board: to fill Board vacancies as and when they report to the Board for consideration of, the nature and extent of risks arise: to put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the and opportunities including those arising from social, environmental Chairman and Chief Executive: to make recommendations to the and ethical matters to which the Company is exposed and to Board for the continuation or not in service of a director and any provide an assessment on how they have been identified, evaluated director who has reached the age of 70: and to recommend directors, and managed.
who are retiring by rotation, to be put forward for re-election.
Kidde plc 2002 15 Routine Business Committee All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Routine Business Committee meets when necessary to deal with Secretary who has direct responsibility to the full Board to advise routine matters, the principles or policy of which have been agreed on matters of corporate governance, such as Board procedures and by the Board, which are not of sufficient importance to warrant applicable rules and regulations.
In addition, the directors have access reference to the Board.
This includes matters such as allotting new to professional advice within the Company and externally.
This advice shares and maintenance of bank accounts.
The Committee comprises is available via the Company Secretary.
the executive and non-executive directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors are set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review.
BOARD COMPOSITION In addition to the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the Board consists of one other executive director and four The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships independent non-executive directors.
with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders are kept informed Chairman of significant developments.
Briefings with institutional shareholders Sir Nigel Rudd is non-executive Chairman of the Board, with are held at least four times a year with the Chief Executive and Group responsibility to ensure that Kidde has appropriate objectives, an Finance Director and, during the year, the directors met with more effective strategy and that the Board operates in an efficient manner.
than 100 of our leading shareholders, representing 66% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Board is briefed at each meeting Deputy Chairman on investor relations activity and there is an annual review of the Norman Askew joined the Board on 10 February 2003 as non-executive investor relations programme undertaken by a third party, the results Deputy Chairman.
of which are presented to the Board.
Chief Executive The Board encourages communication with private investors.
Michael Harper is the Chief Executive, with responsibility for managing Each year end, the Company produces an abbreviated Annual the business by developing objectives, strategy and standards of Review and Summary Financial Statement and a full Annual Report performance: securing and leading a management team of the right and Financial Statements.
At the half year, all shareholders receive calibre and directing that team to deliver the required performance.
These reports, together with publicly made Senior Independent Director trading statements, presentations and webcasts are available on The Rt Hon John Gummer is the senior independent director the Companys website www.
All shareholders receive with responsibility to ensure that the views of each non-executive the Annual Review and, if they choose, the Annual Report together director are given due consideration and to provide a channel with the notice of AGM at least 20 working days before the AGM.
of communication between the non-executive directors and the At the AGM, the Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and shareholders.
Audit Committees are available to answer questions.
Proxy votes are disclosed after the resolutions.
A summary of the proceedings at the Non-executive directors have been appointed for an initial period of AGM, including the proxy vote, is made available on the Companys three years, subject to a formal review after 18 months.
All directors website and upon request to the Company Secretary.
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at least AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE every three years annually, if aged 70 or more.
Both the Audit Committee and the auditors themselves have Appropriate training and briefing is available to all directors on safeguards in place to avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual and independence being compromised.
The Audit Committee qualifications and experience.
Training is also available on an ongoing monitors and reviews the relationship with the external auditors: their basis to meet their individual needs.
independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the consideration of audit fees, their engagement to supply non-audit services The non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience and and related fees taking into consideration relevant professional expertise to the Companys affairs and they carry significant weight and regulatory requirements and the audit firms own guidance.
They play a full part in enabling the Board to arrive at balanced and objective decisions by using personal and The Company maintains working relationships with major accounting professional skills, including knowledge and experience gained firms and engages advice from the firm most qualified to provide it.
in other businesses and sectors, with integrity and independence.
All major work assignments granted to the external auditors are 16 Kidde plc 2002 corporate governance statement continued subject to independent review by the Chairman of the Audit The role of the Executive Committee includes implementing Committee and all other assignments, including those awarded to Board policies on risk and control and Board strategies on risk the external auditors, are reported to the Audit Committee.
management and corporate social responsibility: ensuring a process is in place to identify and evaluate the risks and opportunities faced The Auditors Report is set out on page 51 of this report.
by the Company for consideration by the Board and to approve the design and to monitor a suitable system of internal control which COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE implements the policies adopted by the Board including establishing The Board is committed to compliance with the principles of measures and procedures for verification.
This also includes ensuring corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code in The Listing that all employees have an understanding of the Company, its Rules of the Financial Services Authority and is able to confirm that objectives, the industries and markets in which it operates and the the Company has complied throughout the year.
risks and opportunities it faces and that an open communication The responsibilities of the directors are set out on page 8 of process is in place to ensure feedback.
Each operating business has produced a strategic risk matrix which identifies key business objectives and the risks which may Internal Controls impact upon their achievement.
The likelihood and impact of each The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal risk is assessed, the control is identified and an assessment is made controls to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys of the effectiveness of the control.
These risks and controls are assets.
In order to discharge that responsibility effectively, the Board also formally discussed at meetings of the Executive Committee.
has established clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility The business planning cycle is based on the preparation of and delegated authority.
the strategic medium-term plan, covering a three year period, The key elements of the system of internal control are: supplemented by comprehensive operating plans, issue analysis, strategic risk reviews and detailed budgets for the next financial A Policies and Procedures Manual provides guidance on establishing year.
These provide the basis for management to monitor and and maintaining appropriate controls and operating procedures and influence the financial plans and direction of the business.
lays down a code of business behaviour The results of the Group are monitored through a performance Through the Audit and Executive Committees details of which are review process.
This compares current results with the previous year, set out on page 14 there are established processes for identifying, with budget and with latest forecasts.
The process also includes evaluating and managing significant risks which are faced by the a range of financial and non-financial key performance indicators Company and its subsidiaries.
These processes have been in place and provides for the early identification of risks and opportunities throughout the year and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
and the instigation of appropriate management action.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviews: The Group has an Internal Audit department.
It has direct Reports released by the internal auditors and considers the major communication through to the Audit Committee, whose role is to findings of internal investigations and managements responses monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal The procedures for identifying business risks and controlling their audit function, review the annual internal audit programme, ensure financial impact on the Company co-ordination between the internal and external auditors and that The Companys policies for preventing or detecting fraud the internal audit function has sufficient freedom and resource to The Companys policies for ensuring that it complies with relevant carry out its role.
regulatory and legal requirements Monitoring and Review Process The operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures The Board, the Audit and Executive Committees, Chief Executive and The Companys internal financial and non-financial reporting and Group Finance Director monitor the effectiveness of internal controls.
internal control framework including Treasury The Audit Committee considers reports from internal and external Compliance with the Companys Code of Boardroom Practice auditors and from the Executive Committee on internal control.
With the external auditor before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and any problems or reservations arising A risk based control assurance process is operated: this includes from their audits, and any other matters the external auditors may internal control reviews by the business and independent examination wish to discuss in the absence of management where necessary of controls by the internal audit team.
This process is reinforced each Appropriateness of accounting policies year by both written and verbal representations from management.
The interim and full year Financial Statements before submission to the Board.
Kidde plc 2002 17 Pension Fund The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal The Kidde UK Pension Plan is not controlled by the Board but by control in operation during the period by means of the process the trustees.
The trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, outlined above.
It must be recognised that any system of internal which are held separately from those of the Company.
The pension control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance scheme funds can only be used in accordance with scheme rules.
against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review has revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the Board, indicates that the system is inappropriate or unsatisfactory.
Going Concern The Board has reviewed and approved the Groups budget for 2003 and the three year corporate plan which includes a cash flow forecast.
It has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will have adequate resources for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, the directors consider that the Company and the Group is a going concern.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Kidde plc Board Operating companies Terms of reference: include risk management and corporate Weekly and monthly reports on financial and operational social responsibility strategies.
issues including continual review of risks and opportunities.
Strategic risk matrices formally reviewed half yearly.
Reporting: half yearly corporate governance report plus annual report to shareholders.
Oversight functions Executive Committee Divisional Sector Management, Group Risk Management, Terms of reference: include implementing Board strategies Finance, Group Treasury and Human Resources.
on risk management and corporate social responsibility: identifying the nature and extent of risks and opportunities Role including those arising from social, environmental and Strategic Management, policy setting, functional oversight, ethical matters : ensuring policies and procedures are known, support, guidance and advice.
Reporting: quarterly corporate governance report.
Group Internal Audit Audit Committee Independent challenge and assurance.
Terms of reference: include preservation of good financial practices and monitoring controls.
External Audit Reporting: regular reports to the Board.
