Corporate governance The newly merged group is committed to high standards of The audit committee is chaired by Richard North and also corporate governance.
In its component forms as Logica and includes Angela Knight, George Loudon and Wim Dik, all CMG, the group complied throughout the period under review independent non-executive directors.
Its terms of reference with the applicable principles and provisions set out in the include the review of the groups annual and interim financial Combined Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority statements, accounting policies and internal management and Listing Requirements.
In addition, CMG was compliant for the financial controls.
It also considers the appointment and fees of period under review with the requirements of Euronext the external auditors and discusses the audit scope as well as the Amsterdam.
The board has noted the publication of both the findings and management letters arising from audits.
The audit Higgs Report on corporate governance and the Smith Report in committee normally meets three times a year, together with the respect of the conduct of audit committees, both of which were external auditors.
The chief executive and the group finance released subsequent to the end of the financial period.
While director attend the meetings at the request of the committee.
the introduction of the recommendations does not affect disclosure for the financial period under review, the board The nominations committee is chaired by Cor Stutterheim and believes that it adheres in principle to the spirit of both reports.
also includes Martin Read and Helmut Mamsch.
It considers Once the final reports are published, the companys various appointments of new directors and recommends any new terms of reference will be reviewed.
The board The remuneration committee comprises independent nonFollowing the merger of the Logica plc and CMG plc groups, a executive directors and is chaired by Angela Knight.
Its other new board of the combined group was constituted.
The new members are Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon.
Its key role directors were appointed on 30 December 2002.
The is to determine the appropriate levels of remuneration for the membership of the board committees outlined below reflects companys executive directors and senior management.
However, the functional constitution and Directors remuneration is set at the level necessary to attract methodology of the Logica plc and CMG plc boards were very and retain the directors needed to run the company similar and therefore the following summary of the approach to successfully, this level being set independently by a formal, corporate governance is applicable to the merged group transparent procedure.
The groups remuneration policy is set throughout the period under review.
Full details of directors remuneration are set out on page 43.
There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which receives such information as is required to properly fulfil its Internal control duties.
The board comprises six non-executive directors, The board is responsible for the groups system of internal including the chairman and deputy chairman, and four executive control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has directors who together bring a wide range of skills and reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control for experience to the board.
All directors are obliged to submit the period under review and the period to the approval of the themselves for re-election at least every three years.
It should be understood that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The board takes the opportunity afforded by the AGM and achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable rather than meetings with institutional investors to ensure the companys absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
objectives are widely communicated and understood.
All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM where developments in The group operates a highly structured, objectives-driven the business are explained and the shareholders have the approach to fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of opportunity to ask questions.
All preliminary, final and interim sustained profitability and growth.
The strategic objectives of results, together with other press releases, are published on the the group are captured in a strategic plan, developed by the groups website.
Financial reporting is presented in such a way as executive committee and approved by the board, which to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the addresses revenue and associated costs and necessary companys position and prospects.
The strategic plan then forms the basis of annual revenue and profit targets for the operating units in the group.
The board annually reviews the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
In addition to this annual review, the The research and development and capital investment company operates other procedures to bring relevant internal programmes are subject to a formal review procedure requiring control matters to board attention.
These are explained in the that rigorous qualification criteria be met prior to each instance section on internal control in this statement.
Evaluation and post-investment appraisals are performed by reference to detailed business plans.
46 Corporate governance LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 The monitoring regime established by the board, through which Going concern the performance indicators derived from the strategic and The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the annual plans are regularly interrogated, ensures that events, company and the group have adequate resources to continue in which pose significant risk to the attainment of the groups operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it objectives or significant control lapses, are communicated is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing through a process of rapid escalation to senior management.
Unit performance is evaluated on a monthly basis, and this evaluation includes the addressing of identified control Statement of directors responsibilities weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of previously The directors are required by United Kingdom company law to recommended corrective actions.
prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and The board acknowledges that the group operates in a fluid and company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and rapidly developing business environment.
Changes to the risk cash flows of that year.
In preparing those financial statements, profiles in the business environment arise as a result of both the the directors are required to: external challenges in a highly competitive marketplace and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them through the internal development of new products, consistently management procedures and systems.
As a result, a risk make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent management process has been established, which involves the state whether applicable accounting standards have been regular evaluation of inherent business risks and the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and identification of controls to address them.
explained in the accounts and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is The board has reviewed the key business, financial, operational inappropriate to presume that the group and company will and compliance risks facing the group, prioritised their continue in business significance and determined current procedures and processes in place to detect and address them.
Risk was assessed with The directors confirm that they have complied with the above reference to the achievement of the business objectives of the requirements in preparing the accounts.
The directors are respective companies, and will be assessed in the future with responsible for keeping proper accounting records which reference to the revised objectives of the newly merged group.
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial The findings of both mechanisms have been used to better position of the group and company and enable them to ensure target resources to control the main areas of risk, to enhance the that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act current risk based internal audit programme and to improve the 1985.
They are also responsible for the groups system of process of regular reporting on controls to the board.
internal control and for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of fraud The board has also devised detailed mechanisms for the and other irregularities.
monitoring of risk and associated controls that provide the core assurance for the internal control regime.
The inherited By order of the board processes of both Logica and CMG are inherently similar and have been combined to produce a comprehensive approach to P Weaver FCIS the risk profile of the merged group.
The continuous Company secretary monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the 5 March 2003 responsibility of the board and line management respectively.
Operational guidance on the appropriate approach to risk is provided through clearly defined delegation of responsibilities and authorisation levels, and by clearly documented internal procedures that are set out in core operating procedures common to all areas of the group.
The internal audit and quality assurance functions perform regular audits and provide assistance towards the fulfilment of line managements risk management responsibilities.
The external auditors contribute an additional independent perspective on the overall integrity of those areas of the internal control system, which they have assessed in the course of their work, and report annually to the audit committee with their findings.
The audit committee assesses the evidence provided to them through the various mechanisms and seeks to ensure that the risk management process adequately addresses all of the major risks to the group.
