Corporate Governance Combined Code the Boards decision taking.
In addition, Sir Alastair Morton, is designated as the Senior Independent Director In June 1998 The Committee on Corporate Governance, to whom concerns can be conveyed in addition to the chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel, published the Combined Chairman.
Code containing Principles of Good Governance and a Code of Best Practice.
To permit a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, the Board has Each UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange is a Nomination Committee currently comprising required to provide in its annual report and accounts a Mr J R B Phillimore Chairman and Mr P C Godsoe.
narrative statement of how it has applied the Principles Its function is to review on an ongoing basis and at least affecting companies set out in the Combined Code with annually the membership of the Board and recommend sufficient explanation enabling its shareholders to to the Board any proposed changes, be they executive or evaluate how the Principles have been applied.
The Principles cover four subject areas, namely directors, All Directors submit themselves to shareholders for directors remuneration, relations with shareholders re-election at least every three years.
The Principles are amplied by a set of 45 provisions with Relations with shareholders which the Company complies and complied throughout The Principles encourage a dialogue with institutional the year.
shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Directors have a regular dialogue with With the exception of the Principles relating to directors institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in remuneration which are covered in the Directors Report the interests of shareholders generally.
The Company also on Remuneration the Board has applied the Principles as has a website containing up-to-date information.
follows: The Principles encourage boards to use the Annual Directors General Meeting to communicate with private investors The Company is led and controlled by the Board of and to encourage their participation.
The Board has Directors which has nine members, four of whom are followed this particular Principle for a great number of non-Executive.
The Board meets regularly, at least every years.
other month, but more frequently if necessary, and once a year twice a year from 2003 in South Africa and receives Accountability and Audit regular and timely information in a form and of a quality Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial to enable it to discharge its duties.
In addition certain statements for each financial year which give a true and Directors are also directors of the principal operating fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the subsidiaries.
The Board retains full responsibility for the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In direction and control of the Company and no strategic preparing those financial statements, the Directors are powers were delegated to any committee in the year required to: under review.
All Directors have access to the services of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company Secretary and are entitled to take consistently: independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly separated.
All Directors have equal responsibilities as state whether applicable accounting standards have directors and bring an independent judgement to bear on been followed, subject to any material departures key issues, but the Board has been structured with the disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Executive Directors having responsibility for running the prepare the financial statements on the going concern Companys business and the non-Executive Directors, all basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the of whom are independent of management, bringing Group will continue in business.
This results in no one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 09 Corporate Governance The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Internal Control and Risk Management accounting records which disclose with reasonable The Company has complied with the Combined Code accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company provisions on internal control.
and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general system of internal control and for reviewing its responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open effectiveness whilst the role of management is to to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
of internal control is designed to manage rather than The Boards objective is to present a balanced and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the business understandable assessment of the Companys position objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls and prospects, particularly in the annual review and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance interim report.
against material misstatement or loss.
In 1993 the Board established an Audit Committee which There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating now comprises Sir Alastair Morton Chairman, and managing the significant risks faced by the Company Sir John Craven and Mr J R B Phillimore.
The Committee which has been in place for the year under review and up will meet at least four times a year, twice in South Africa, to the date of approval of the Annual Report and and the Finance Director and the external and internal Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
auditors are invited to attend as appropriate.
The principal The processes used by the Board to review the objectives of the Committee are to review the annual and effectiveness of the system of internal control include the half yearly financial statements prior to their submission following.
During the year: to the Board: to review accounting policies: to receive reports from the Groups internal auditors who monitor i The Audit Committee the effectiveness of business and financial controls: to reviews the external and internal audit work plans: receive reports from the internal auditors on internal controls and to review with management and the external considers reports from management, internal and auditors the effectiveness of internal controls: to review external audit on the system of internal control and the scope and results of the external audit and its cost any material control weaknesses: and effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the discusses with management the actions taken on auditors: to ensure compliance by the Group with the problem areas identied by Board members or in principles of the Combined Code relating to Accountability the internal external audit reports.
and Audit: and to receive reports from the Risk Committee on the effective management of the major ii The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risks to which the business is exposed on a day to day basis.
risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Combined Code requires a report that the business is a going concern and a report that the Directors have iii The Risk Committee and The Lonmin Platinum reviewed the system of internal control which they are Safety, Health and Environment Committee meet on required to maintain in order to safeguard shareholders a regular basis.
investment and the Companys assets.
iv The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the Going Concern outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit The Directors consider that the Group has adequate Committee meetings.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to v The Risk Committee reviews the role of insurance in adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial managing risks across the Group.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that vi The Groups management operates a risk the Group is in a sound financial position and that management process which identies the key risks sufficient borrowing facilities will be available to meet the facing each business and reports through the Risk Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Committee to the Audit Committee on how these 10 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 risks are being managed.
Lonmin Platinum and the Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE Risks Group produce a risk register which identies their The Group is committed to high ethical standards so that key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, business can be conducted honestly, fairly and legally.
their impact if they do occur and the actions being To this end the Risk Committee and the Lonmin Platinum taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Safety, Health and Environment Committee take regular The risk registers are incorporated into Combined account of the signicance of SEE matters to the business Assurance Plans which allocate responsibility for of the Group and have identied and assessed the managing risk to management.
These risks are significant risks to the Groups short and long term value discussed by the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis arising from SEE matters, as well as the opportunities to and regular monitoring reports are received to update enhance value that may arise from dealing with these it on progress.
The Committees have received adequate information as part of this overall risk review process to The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the make this assessment.
SEE risks are managed no following: differently from other risks and the Groups policies and The outcome of letters of assurance which are procedures for managing all risks are fully complied with completed by management conrming compliance on an ongoing basis.
The Corporate Accountability throughout the year with the Groups policies, Statement on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review procedures, risk management processes and other contains further information on the subject.
matters: Reports on risk and internal control from management, the internal and external auditors, and the Combined Assurance Plan, including schedules of significant risks: and Regular reports on any major problems that have occurred during the year and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 11
