12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The directors have determined that the Anglo American Group The chief executive, A J Trahar, chairs the Executive Committee should adhere to the highest standards of corporate governance which includes all the executive directors of the Company and the and they are accountable to the shareholders for doing so.
executive vice president responsible for Group human resources The key principles underpinning the governance of the Group and business development.
The Committee is empowered and are set out in this statement.
responsible for implementing the strategies and policies determined by the board, managing the business and affairs of the Company, An effective system of control aimed at managing business risks prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources is an integral component of the Groups governance practices, and establishing best management practices.
The Committee is also details of which are provided in the internal control section below.
responsible for senior management appointments and monitoring their performance and acts as the Anglo American risk committee Throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the Company has for the purpose of reviewing and monitoring Anglo Americans been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Principles of systems of internal control.
Good Governance and Code of Best Practice of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The Executive Committee presently comprises: A J Trahar chairman, Details on the application of the principles of Section 1 of the B E Davison, R J King, A W Lea and W A Nairn.
Combined Code are set out below.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Remuneration Committee, comprising solely independent nonThe board of directors is responsible to the shareholders for setting executive directors, is responsible for establishing and developing the direction of Anglo American through the establishment of Anglo Americans general policy on executive and senior strategic objectives and key policies.
The board meets on a regular management remuneration and determining specific remuneration basis, at least six times a year.
During 2002, eight board meetings packages for executive directors.
The board considers issues of strategic direction, major acquisitions and disposals and approves major capital expenditure The Remuneration Committee presently comprises: R J Margetts and other matters having a material effect on Anglo American.
chairman, D J Challen, Dr C E Fay and F T M Phaswana.
Presentations are made to the board by business management on the activities of operations and both executive and non-executive SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SHE COMMITTEE directors undertake regular visits to operations and projects.
The SHE Committee is responsible for developing framework policies and guidelines for safety, health and environment management The composition of the board, with a strong independent element, and ensuring the progressive implementation of same throughout ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision the Group.
The Committee normally meets four times each year, and authority.
The board comprises four executive and ten nonincluding a visit to an operation.
A separate Report to Society 2002 executive directors, seven of whom are independent within the will be available from the Company in April.
definition contained in the Higgs Report of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors Higgs Report published in January 2003.
The SHE Committee presently comprises: Dr C E Fay chairman, The independent directors are Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, D J Challen, BE Davison, R M Godsell, G Lindahl, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, F TM Phaswana, Prof K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, G Lindahl WA Nairn and A J Trahar.
With effect from 25 April 2003, and R J Margetts.
The other non-executive directors are R M Godsell, Sir David Scholey will join the Committee.
NF Oppenheimer and Sir David Scholey.
On 30 November 2002, J Ogilvie Thompson retired as non-executive chairman and was INVESTMENT COMMITTEE succeeded by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
The Investment Committees role is to manage the process of capital allocation by ensuring that investments and divestments increase Following publication of the Higgs Report, although the board shareholder value and meet Anglo Americans financial criteria.
The believes that Sir Davids relationship with UBS Warburg, the Committee makes recommendations to the Executive Committee Companys joint broker, in no way affects his ability to act and or the board on these matters.
The Committee meets as required.
independently, it was felt that it was preferable that another board member should fill the role of senior independent non-executive The Investment Committee presently comprises: A W Lea chairman, director.
Accordingly, with effect from the AGM, R J Margetts will W A Nairn and P G Whitcutt executive vice president responsible be appointed as the senior independent non-executive director.
Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as NOMINATION COMMITTEE well as significant experience in financial, commercial and mining The role of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations activities.
As recommended by the Combined Code, F T M Phaswana to the board on the appointment of new executive and non-executive and Prof K A L M Van Miert, who were appointed directors during directors, including making recommendations as to the composition the year, undertook an induction and training course at a New of the board generally and the balance between executive and nonDirectors Workshop and all newly appointed directors will executive directors.
be offered the opportunity of attending similar future workshops.
The Nomination Committee presently comprises: All directors have access to management, including the Company Sir Mark Moody-Stuart chairman, R J Margetts, Sir David Scholey Secretary, and to such information as is needed to carry out their and N F Oppenheimer.
With effect from 25 April 2003, Sir Mark duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, Moody-Stuart will be succeeded as chairman by F T M Phaswana all directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice and Prof K A L M Van Miert will join the Committee.
The concerning the affairs of Anglo American at its expense.
All directors appointment of F T M Phaswana and Prof K A L M Van Miert will are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity broaden the Committees international outlook.
In addition, directors will retire by rotation and stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years in accordance with Anglo Americans articles of association.
Subject to specific fundamental, strategic and formal matters reserved for its decision, the board delegates certain responsibilities to a number of standing committees, which operate within defined terms of reference laid down by the board, as referred to below.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee comprises independent non-executive directors.
Role and responsibilities Current members and those who retired during the year, with The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity their respective dates of appointment and retirement, are: of financial reporting and the audit process, and that a sound risk R J Margetts chairman 19 March 1999 management and internal control system is maintained.
In pursuing appointed chairman 10 May 2002 these objectives the Audit Committee oversees relations with the external auditors, and reviews the effectiveness of the internal D J Challen 9 September 2002 audit function.
Dr C E Fay 4 June 2001 F T M Phaswana 2 September 2002 In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has Prof K A L M Van Miert 10 May 2002 reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted Viscount E Davignon 19 March 1999 in the preparation of public financial information and has examined retired 10 May 2002 documentation relating to the Annual Report, Annual Review, Interim Report, preliminary announcements and related public reports.
Appointments to the Audit Committee are made by the board in The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was consultation with the Audit Committee chairman.
reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for significant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment With effect from 25 April 2003, D J Challen will replace R J Margetts of major transactions open to different approaches, the Committee as chairman.
For continuity reasons R J Margetts will continue as a considered written reports by management and the external auditors.
The chief financial officers of all operations have provided As required by the Audit Committees terms of reference, the confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that financial and accounting Committee met three times during 2002 to coincide with key dates control frameworks operate satisfactorily.
Summaries of the within the financial reporting and auditing cycle.
All members were significant risk and control issues arising from these reports were present at these meetings, which were followed by discussions, considered by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also independent of management, with the external audit partners and received regular internal and external audit reports on the results the head of internal audit.
Further information on risk management processes is provided in the internal control disclosure statement on page 14.
Details of remuneration paid to members of the Audit Committee, including the additional fee paid to the chairman of the Audit The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the United Kingdom Committee, are set out on page 21. professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation and employment of former employees of the external auditors have Policy on external auditors independence been complied with.
Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence, which came into effect on 1 January 2003, is consistent with the recommendations For the purpose of reviewing the actual fees for audit and non-audit by the Co-ordinating Group on Audit and Accounting Issues United work for the Group during 2002, the Audit Committee considered Kingdom, published on 29 January 2003. benchmark information pertaining to FTSE100 companies and has concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees do not A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack of present a threat to the external auditors independence.
control over non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
In essence, the external auditors independence is deemed to be After reviewing a report presented by the external auditors on impaired if the auditors provide a service which: all relationships between the external auditors and Anglo American that may reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors results in auditing of own work by the auditors: independence and the audit engagement partner and staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures, the Audit results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee Committee has concluded that the external auditors independence of the Group: was not impaired.
puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group: or The Audit Committee approved the external auditors terms of engagement, scope of work, the process for the 2002 interim review, creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on written reports the Group.
submitted, the Audit Committee reviewed, with the external auditors, the findings of their work and confirmed that all significant matters Anglo American has elected to address this issue through two have been satisfactorily resolved.
primary measures, namely disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services and the prohibition of selected services.
Disclosure The Audit Committees assessment of the external auditors entails reporting non-audit services at all meetings of the Groups performance and independence underpins its recommendation to audit committees and inclusion, as from next year, of prescribed the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte detail in the Annual Report of listed entities.
The policys definition & Touche as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2004. of prohibited non-audit services corresponds with the European Commissions recommendations on auditors independence.
Each internal audit function reports directly to an audit committee at business or listed company level and is accountable for maintaining Group auditing standards, including risk reporting.
Internal audit functions mandates and annual audit coverage plans were approved by the relevant audit committees, which have considered reports on the results of internal audit work.
A summary of audit results and risk management information was presented, throughout the year, to the Anglo American Audit Committee.
Also tabled were reports submitted by the Groups head of internal audit on internal audit functions performance against Group standards.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Other safeguards encapsulated in the policy include: INTERNAL CONTROL DISCLOSURE The Executive Committee, as mandated by the board, has established the external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy a Group-wide system of internal control to manage significant Group based on best practice and professional standards in the United risks.
This system supports the board in discharging its responsibility Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement for ensuring that the wide range of risks, associated with the Groups partner is five years and for any key audit principal seven years.
diverse international operations, is effectively managed in support of the creation and preservation of shareholder wealth.
The boards any partner designated as a key audit principal of Anglo American policy on risk management encompasses all significant business risks will not be employed by Anglo American in a key management to the Group, including financial, operational and compliance risk, position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since which could undermine the achievement of business objectives.
the conclusion of the last relevant audit.
This system of risk management is designed so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt their risk management the Audit Committee shall ensure that the scope of the auditors processes to suit their specific circumstances.
This flexible approach work is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
has the commitment of the Groups senior management.
There is clear accountability for risk management, which is a key performance the Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making area of line managers throughout the Group.
The requisite risk and recommendations to the board on the appointment, reappointment control capability is assured through board challenge and appropriate and removal of the external auditors.
management selection and skills development.
Managers are supported in giving effect to their risk responsibilities through sound the Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent policies and guidelines on risk and control management.
Continuous counsel and other advisors as they determine necessary in order monitoring of risk and control processes, across 13 significant to resolve issues on auditor independence.
Group-wide risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, provides the basis for regular and exception reporting to business management DIRECTORS REMUNERATION and boards, the Executive Committee and the board.
The directors remuneration report, providing a statement on Anglo Americans policy on executive directors remuneration, benefits, The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide the share options, long term incentive plan and pension entitlements, is board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
The set out on pages 15 to 27 of this Annual Report.
A resolution to reports to the board, which are submitted at least quarterly, include approve the remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks materialising, annual general meeting.
as well as risk mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key The Company maintains an active dialogue with its key financial operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance that audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk and relationship banks.
The Investor and Corporate Affairs tolerance levels defined by the board.
Regular management reporting, department manages the ongoing dialogue with these audiences which provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, and regular presentations take place at the time of interim is an important component of board assurance.
In addition, certain and final results as well as during the rest of the year.
An active board committees focus on specific risks such as safety of people programme with potential shareholders is also maintained.
and capital investment and provide assurance to the board on those matters.
The chief financial officers provide confirmation, on a sixDuring the year there have been regular presentations and meetings monthly basis, that financial and accounting control frameworks have with institutional investors in the United Kingdom, South Africa, operated satisfactorily.
The board also receives assurance from the Europe and the United States of America to communicate the strategy Audit Committee which derives its information, in part, from regular and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors as well as internal and external audit reports on risk and internal control key corporate officers host such presentations and meetings.
The Anglo American internal audit function Companys website www.
co. uk provides the latest is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Executive and historical financial and other information on Anglo American.
Committee and the board on the effectiveness of the risk management process throughout the Group.
Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming annual general meeting, notice of which is contained in the booklet enclosed Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, herewith, to put questions to the board, including the chairmen of based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material the various committees.
Facilities have been put in place to enable associates and joint ventures.
Where this is not possible, the shareholders to receive company communications electronically directors who are represented on these organisations boards, rather than by mail and to cast their AGM votes by telephone or seek assurance that significant risks are being managed.
In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT management, the board considers the key findings from the ongoing The board is required to present a balanced and understandable monitoring and reporting processes, management assertions and assessment of Anglo Americans financial position and prospects.
The board also takes account of Such assessment is provided in the chairmans and chief executives material changes and trends in the risk profile and considers whether statements set out on pages 6 to 11 of the Annual Review, and the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the the financial review set out on pages 2 to 9 of this Annual Report.
board in achieving its risk management objectives.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and external auditors are set out on pages 28 and 29.
As referred to in the directors During the course of the year the board considered the Groups report on page 10, the directors have expressed their view that responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
Anglo Americans business is a going concern.
The board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002
