com 11 Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has applied the Combined Code principles as follows: Directors As at 30 March 2002 the Board comprises 11 directors, five of whom are non-executive.
In addition, from 2 April 2002 Paul Myners joined the Board as a non-executive director.
Since September 2000 when Peter Salsbury resigned from the Board as Chief Executive, Luc Vandevelde has headed the Board as Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board recognises that this is to address current business needs and has balanced the power by: appointing Roger Holmes as Managing Director of UK Retail, and Laurel Powers-Freeling as Chief Executive of Financial Services: the Board comprising 50% non-executive directors, with a wide range of experience and expertise, who bring an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance and resources: and retaining 100% non-executive membership of the principal Corporate Governance Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
A full list of the directors, along with their biographies and the Board Committees on which they sit, is given on page 20 of the Annual Review.
Brian Baldock is the Senior Independent Director.
All non-executive directors are considered independent.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Graham Oakley, who ensures that the Board, which meets at least eight times per year, receives appropriate and timely information for its decision making, that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are met.
He also assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
Directors receive appropriate induction training when they join the Group and coaching to develop individual skills as required.
There is an established procedure whereby any director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of his or her duties, may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, the nearest number to but not exceeding one third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation and all directors are required to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Principal Board committees The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, which operate within clearly dened terms of reference, reporting regularly to the Board and include: Audit Committee: assists the Board in fulling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management, and the audit process.
It comprises five non-executive directors, is chaired by Kevin Lomax and meets at least three times annually.
The external auditors and the Chief Internal Auditor attend all meetings.
The Financial Services division has its own Audit and Compliance Committee which meets three times a year, reports regularly to the Financial Services Board and the Group Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by  PwC each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their independence.
In some cases the nature of the advice may make it more timely and cost-effective to select PwC who already have a good understanding of the Group.
PwC may also be appointed for consultancy work but only after rigorous checks to confirm they are the best provider, including competitive tender.
PwC are also subject to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role they perform on behalf of our shareholders.
Details of this years fees are given in note 4 on page 33.
Remuneration Committee: ensures the executive directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
It comprises four non-executive directors, is chaired by Dame Stella Rimington, and meets at least five times annually.
The Remuneration Report appears on pages 14 to 20 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each director.
12 Marks and Spencer Group plc Corporate governance The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman together with the other executive directors.
The Board considers each year whether shareholders should be invited to consider separately the Remuneration Report at the AGM, and is proposing a separate resolution to shareholders at the 2002 AGM.
Nomination Committee: keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition: selects and proposes to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as directors of the Group, and considers Board successional plans.
It comprises all the non-executive directors, is chaired by Brian Baldock, and meets as required.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee: provides the Board with an overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Groups activities.
It is chaired by Luc Vandevelde, is comprised of main Board members and senior management and meets at least three times annually.
The Committee reviews the Groups CSR strategy, policies and performance on behalf of the Board.
The Groups risk assessment process is applied to identify the key risks in the areas of employment policy, ethical trading, environmental management, animal welfare, health and safety and community involvement.
Our first full CSR Report will accompany our next annual report in June 2003 following consultation with our principal stakeholders and will be externally audited and veried.
Relations with shareholders The Group is committed to ongoing communication across its entire shareholder base, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
This is achieved principally through annual and interim reports, quarterly trading statements and the AGM.
The Groups website at www.
com contains corporate and customer information updated on a regular basis.
Regular dialogue and presentations take place throughout the year with institutional investors.
The AGM held in July in London is well attended by shareholders who receive a business presentation and have the opportunity to ask questions of the full Board including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The results of the proxy voting are declared at the Meeting and are published on the Groups website together with a resum of the Meeting.
Accountability and audit Responsibility for risk and internal control The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the needs of our customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is presented by an internal audit function, which operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area and major project identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
This information is communicated upwards on a lter basis, culminating in a comparison with the executive directors assessment of the Groups risks and discussion by the Board of the Group Risk Prole.
com 13 This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull Working Party.
Internal control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
These include: communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and targets: appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to full their allotted responsibilities: review by operating divisions of their annual and three-year operating and capital plans with the relevant executive directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
This includes the identication and assessment of risks: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: clearly dened capital investment control guidelines: operating policies and procedures: reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board: review of treasury policies by the Treasury Committee with changes approved by the Board: and review of social, environmental and ethical matters by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee see page 12.
Assurance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process: systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the internal audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identied risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
The work of the internal audit department is focused on areas of priority as identied by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved each year by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The Board receives a full report from the Chief Internal Auditor each year on the departments work and findings and regular interim updates on specic issues.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial condition of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The directors through the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
Compliance with the Combined Code The directors confirm that for the year ended 30 March 2002 the Company complied with all the Code provisions.
