Corporate Governance The management structure of the Group is Compliance currently an Executive Chairman, Finance Director Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high and a Divisional Chief Executive for the Landscape ethical values and professionalism in all its Products Division which represents 75 per cent of activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, Group turnover.
The Board believed that this the Group supports the highest standards in structure was appropriate for Marshalls at this corporate governance.
stage of the Groups development.
However, the Board now believes that this structure is no longer The Board considers that the Company has suitable and the Chairmans Statement details the complied with the 14 Principles of Good changes to be made in 2003.
"These include the Governance and Code of Best Practice the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief ""Combined Code"" which are incorporated into Executive in accordance with best practice and the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing the recommendation of the Higgs Report."
Rules throughout the year ended 31 December 2002.
The paragraphs below, together with the The Board considers that each Director is able to report on Directors Remuneration set out on bring independent judgement to the Companys pages 29 to 34, describe how these principles are affairs on all matters.
The Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their The Board appointment and to re-election every three years.
The Board is responsible for the overall direction, Any Director attaining the age of 70 would be strategy, performance and management of subject to re-election annually.
For the year ended 31 December 2002, it comprised four Executive Directors and The Board meets ten times a year on a formal basis three Non-Executive Directors.
Short biographies and is supplied in a timely manner with of each of the current Directors, which illustrate information in a form and of a quality appropriate their range of experience, are set out on page 17. to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is an Mr M. A. Stacey, an independent Non-Executive agreed schedule of matters reserved to it for Director, resigned on 7 January 2003.
Mr collective decision and the Board and Committee M. A. Stacey was a member of both the Audit papers are normally sent out seven days before Committee and the Remuneration Committee for meetings take place.
all of the year ended 31 December 2002.
The NonExecutive Directors are considered to be The Group is centralised in its management, independent within the meaning of Provision decision making and financial control.
The Board, A3.2 of the Combined Code and represent a at its meetings, reviews the financial results of all source of strong, independent advice and Group companies.
A detailed annual budget and judgement.
Mr J. W. Footman is the Senior business plan is prepared for each operation in Independent Non-Executive Director.
conjunction with local management, which is then compared in full detail with the monthly 26 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 management accounts.
Executive Directors are Nomination Committee required to comment on all areas where The Nomination Committee is responsible for performance departs from current expectations.
considering the appointment of Non-Executive Any significant variances are discussed at Board and Excecutive Directors.
Given the temporary level and appropriate action taken.
composition of the Board the Nomination Committee currently comprises all the members All Directors have access to the advice and of the Board.
The appointment of Directors is services of the Company Secretary and there is an made by the Board through a formal process after established procedure for all Directors to take considering the Committees proposals.
independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Relations with Shareholders The Company recognises the importance of Audit Committee communicating with its shareholders to ensure The Audit Committee meets at least three times a that its strategy and performance is understood.
year, is comprised only of independent NonThis is achieved principally through the Annual Executive Directors and is chaired by Mr R. A.
"Report and the Annual General Meeting ""AGM""."
The Audit Committee reviews the annual In addition, a range of corporate information is Financial Statements and the interim and available to investors on the Companys website.
preliminary announcements prior to submission to the Board, compliance with accounting Formal presentations are made to institutional standards, the scope and extent of the external shareholders following the announcement of the audit programme, and the appointment and Companys full year and interim results.
The Board remuneration of the Auditors.
It also monitors the recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for operation and effectiveness of the Groups dialogue with private shareholders.
normally attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish The Company does not have an in-house internal to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in the audit function.
Instead, it has concluded that it Annual Report which is sent to shareholders at would be more effective for firms of external least 20 working days before the meeting.
accountants other than the Companys Auditors Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a to carry out regular internal audit assignments.
poll is validly called and after each such vote the The results of a number of assignments have been number of proxy votes received for and against reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive Directors, meets at least twice a year and is chaired by Mr J. W. Footman.
The report on Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 29 to 34.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 27 Corporate Governance continued budget and monthly reporting system.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has carried out an annual assessment The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for of the Groups risk management and internal the Groups system of internal control and for control system for the year to 31 December 2002 reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is by considering reports from both the Audit designed to manage rather than eliminate the Committee and the Risk Committee and are of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and opinion that a proper system of internal control is can only provide reasonable and not absolute in place within the Group.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, Going Concern evaluating and managing the Groups significant The Directors consider, after making appropriate risks through a Risk Committee which reports enquiries at the time of approving the Financial directly to the Board and which has been in place Statements that the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2002 and up to have adequate resources to continue in operathe date of this report.
tional existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the The Committee is responsible for identifying, going concern basis in the preparation of the evaluating and managing any material risks which Financial Statements.
might threaten the Groups business objectives.
In undertaking this work, it receives quarterly business reviews from each business unit, and an annual risk assessment carried out by the head of each business unit.
From this information, the Committee has compiled a Register which identifies the Groups key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and the impact they would have.
From this assessment, action programmes have been agreed to manage those risks to the desired level.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and it accords with the internal control guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
In addition to the major risk review process, the Group operates under an established internal control framework, the key features of which include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive 28 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002
