Chief Executives review The Energy division had an excellent year in 2010.
Although the global power generation market started to recover during the year, it was not until well into the second half of the year that Brush Turbogenerators generator sales started to gather momentum, reflecting the later cycle nature of itsbusiness.
I am very pleased with the trading performance of the Group in 2010.
As we move back into a period of sales growth though, Revenue it is worth noting that profits have increased in the Group Full year notwithstanding the severe global downturn of the last few years.
In the first half of the year, the profit increase was achieved 1,379.5m largely through lower costs on flat sales, whereas in the second 2009: 1,298.5m half the profit growth was driven by increasing sales as the order books, particularly from our later cycle businesses, started to kick in.
This has resulted in a steady and gratifying Headline operating profit margin improvement in headline operating profit margins a key Melrose Second half performance indicator to 14.9% in the second half of the year.
This is significant in that it demonstrates the transition to increasing revenue driving profit growth rather than cost 14.9% reduction.
The Group is well placed to benefit from this in that 2009: 13.0% many of its businesses operate in industries and regions with strong long term growth characteristics.
As a result, during the second half of 2010 the Group has stepped up its capital Headline basic earnings per share growth expenditure programme significantly.
Whilst there are concerns about the effect of raw material price increases on the global economy, individually our businesses all benefit from strong positions in their markets and we are 53% confident that, absent to an overall decline in the global 2010: 25.4p versus 2009: 16.6p economy, the Group will not be adversely affected.
The Energy division had an excellent year in 2010.
Although the global power generation market started to recover during the year, it was not until well into the second half of the year that Brush Turbogenerators generator sales started to gather momentum, reflecting the later cycle nature of its business.
In addition, the acquisition of GMS in the year has greatly boosted Brush Turbogenerators presence in the higher margin aftermarket business and this represents a major strategic opportunity for Brush.
We continue to target growth in higher margin aftermarket sales and are confident that we will continue to see further success in this area over the months to come.
06 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information On the back of healthy order books, supported by an aggressive capital investment programme and ahealthy pipeline of exciting new product introductions, we look forward to a further year of progressfor the Group in 2011.
The continuing strength of the order book, allied to the efficiency The Other Industrial division performed well in 2010 profit gains being achieved, especially in relation to the absorption of was up substantially on the back of a modest increase in sales.
Brush Transformers operations, gives us confidence that 2011 MPC in particular had an exceptional year as the benefits of a will be another good year.
focused programme of technically differentiated new products supported by capital investment started to come on stream.
In the Lifting division, Bridons profit in 2010 fell marginally short This has led to a strong business relationship with Jaguar Land of its record profit in 2009.
Whilst a number of Bridons markets Rover which we have been pleased to support with capital saw some recovery in the year, the offshore oil and gas industry investment.
We look forward to another year of progress from remained subdued, exacerbated by the moratorium on this division.
deepwater drilling following the Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
During the year Bridon launched a number of exciting In February 2011, Brush Traction, Logistex UK and Madico new products designed to meet the increasingly demanding were sold for a total consideration of 20.7 million.
applications required by its customers and continued to invest in the upgrading of its manufacturing and research and Outlook development facilities.
With general market conditions Melrose group companies operate in markets that are forecast continuing to improve and the expectation that the offshore oil to continue to expand and to have good medium and long term and gas market will start to recover in the second half of 2011, growth characteristics.
This, combined with an ongoing benefit allied to the benefits from the new products and higher capital from tight cost control, gives us confidence that we will continue spending, Bridon looks forward to a year of progress.
Crosby to see progress over the years to come.
recovered sharply in 2010 following a difficult 2009.
Both sales On the back of healthy order books, supported by an aggressive and profit grew strongly, partly as a result of a general pick up capital investment programme and a healthy pipeline of exciting in market conditions, but also as a result of the hard work put in new product introductions, we look forward to a further year of during 2009 to work closely with its well established distributor progress for the Group in 2011. base and continue to focus on developing new products, thereby resulting in gains in market share.
With major advances being made in expanding in the Far East and increasing orders in its established North American and European markets, Crosby looks forward to a successful outcome in 2011.
Dynacast performed exceptionally well in 2010 with revenue and David Roper profit recovering strongly after a difficult 2009.
Some of the cost savings made during the downturn have been retained as sales 9 March 2011 have recovered and this has resulted in a highly encouraging return on sales in the year of over 15 per cent.
Sales in all three of Dynacasts main geographic regions grew strongly in the year and new tool sales, a key indicator of future growth, reached a record high in Asia during the year.
As market conditions continue to show improvement, Dynacast is confident of a further year of progress.
