Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Nigel Clifford Chief Executive Of cer How we intend to maximise the opportunities in our three interlinked markets Total addressable The Leading Large and Serving our market best technology growing customers people solutions customer base effectively $6.4bn Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 08 Performance review portion of Group revenues.
The Group repeated its successful track Micro Focus has a very attractive market opportunity.
The Group has record of bringing acquisitions quickly into the Micro Focus business leading products and services, highly skilled employees and a large model, with minimal disruption to operations.
Margins at these and growing customer base.
The financial model is compelling thanks operations are in line with levels at the rest of the Group, signi cantly to a relevant product offering and robust business in three growing ahead of initial expectations.
We will focus on turning these previously markets.
We will focus on further strengthening the operations of declining products to growth in the year ahead.
the enlarged Group in delivering the next phase in Micro Focus development.
Our revenues Licence fees account for more than 42% of total revenues and are an Our marketplace important growth driver for the future.
The larger value transactions of Business leaders face the twin challenges of reducing operating more than $500,000 represent 24% of total licence fees from COBOL costs and the need to improve operational capabilities to ensure Development and Modernization & Migration.
Within the licence fees competitiveness and access to new market opportunities.
Such segment of our COBOL Development and Modernization & Migration pressures have intensi ed in the recent uncertain economic climate.
business, we saw 22% generated through independent software This has led many to rethink their historic approach to applications, vendors ISVs which have Micro Focus COBOL embedded in the infrastructure and hardware.
However, any rethink must achieve a package solutions they offer their customers.
This is a royalty revenue number of goals: productivity improvements, risk mitigation, exibility stream based on sales of our customers own applications.
The to innovate and preservation of unique IP that creates company contribution from ISVs was a lower percentage of total licence competitive advantage.
Micro Focus is uniquely placed to meet revenues in 2010 compared to 2009, in line with the general these needs and is addressing a growing market opportunity, economic challenges affecting the broader sales of technology valued at $6.4 billion.
Lastly, 54% of our COBOL Development and Modernization & Migration businesses came from high volume low Our products and portfolio value orders in the 2010 financial year.
This is largely linked to our To meet these customer needs and capitalise on the $6.4 billion well-established off mainframe Micro Focus COBOL business and market opportunity, the Group has assembled a set of application consists of multiple customer orders for additional development and management and modernization solutions across three key areas deployment licences in existing customer sites.
AMQ licence revenues as noted above: COBOL Development products, Modernization & from the two acquisitions stabilised in the financial year 2010 as Migration, and AMQ.
For the financial year 2010, Modernization & planned, from a position of declining revenues at the time of Migration revenues and AMQ contributed more than half of total acquisition, and we expect modest growth in the coming year.
The three interlinked lines of business combine to offer CIOs a compelling proposition and a clear path to address The Group continues to bene t from resilient and recurring future business needs, including the opportunity to bene t from maintenance revenues which account for approximately half the cloud computing architectures.
Maintenance revenue growth is driven by the retention of existing customers as well as the addition of new The Groups long-standing leading off mainframe COBOL maintenance revenue associated with the sale of new licences.
Development products exhibit resilient qualities and cash ow strength This provides high levels of revenue visibility going forward as throughout the economic cycle.
The second line of business is Micro maintenance fees are charged at approximately 20% of licence fees Focus fast growing Modernization & Migration solutions which meet sold, and the vast majority of maintenance contracts are renewed the demand from an increasing number of customers to move from annually.
Maintenance revenues in the COBOL Development and expensive proprietary operating environments to more cost effective Modernization & Migration businesses enjoy particularly low levels and exible open systems.
This line of revenues is increasingly of churn, and we continue to enjoy renewal rates towards 90%.
material to the Group both in terms of size and growth potential.
Existing maintenance renewal rates in the AMQ business are lower, as It is an early stage market characterised by early adopters and low expected at the time of the acquisitions.
A series of measures are in penetration rates.
However, more and more business leaders place to bring the AMQ renewal rates up to Group levels over time.
understand the business logic of retaining their business critical applications, rather than rip & replace or rewrite strategies.
Consulting revenues account for the remaining 7% of revenue and will continue to be a small contribution to total revenues.
During the 12 months to the end of April 2010, the acquisitions of Consulting revenues are predominantly derived from services Borland and the Application Management & Quality business of linked to the larger Modernization & Migration projects.
Compuware, which closed at the start of the financial year in the summer of 2009, were integrated with Borland becoming a Group A focus on execution company.
These acquisitions were a logical and complementary The Group has created the portfolio to access an outstanding extension to our portfolio and now provide the enlarged Group access market opportunity.
We are very focused on executing against this to an additional growing market space and a third revenue stream, opportunity.
An experienced executive team works closely to ensure which has higher growth potential than the COBOL Development we deliver an excellent experience to our prospective and current revenues.
Customer feedback to the roadmap for the Borland and customers.
The executive and wider management team is necessarily Compuware product lines has been very positive.
The Groups being selectively strengthened as we are now leading and developing AMQ offering is becoming a strong challenger proposition in a substantially larger business for the future.
In late financial year 2010 the marketplace, helping customers to test and manage the we welcomed a new leader to manage our global development team quality, functionality and security of the applications that run and we have in early financial year 2011 searched, selected and their businesses.
With a current 12 month revenue run rate of appointed three experienced and proven executives to drive a step approximately $164 million, the AMQ solutions are a signi cant change in our sales, professional services and marketing efforts.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT continued Micro Focus delivers a broad range of products and services to The best people customers across its three lines of business, organised across three A growing Company growing talent international regions.
This portfolio has been prioritised, through Micro Focus strong position in its marketplace is a result of leading extensive research into each addressable market to allocate investment technology solutions developed and supported by the best technology and resources with a strong focus on future customer needs such brains in their elds.
No other company can offer the same application as applications management on cloud-based platforms.
In addition, management and modernization skills.
the Group has clearly segmented the market to support effective sales and marketing strategies depending on the nature and scale The strong technology heritage of long-standing Micro Focus of the opportunity employees has been supplemented by new colleagues from other leading technology companies acquired and integrated during the As a result of this work, our sales force is increasingly able to convince last four years.
The Micro Focus workforce has more than doubled senior decision makers at customer organisations to consider the in size in two years and in the last 12 months has grown from very signi cant bene ts of application Modernization & Migration, approximately 860 employees at the end of April 2009 to almost drawing on successful customer examples to demonstrate clear 1,500 in April 2010.
Retaining the best development skills from our productivity and cost reduction bene ts.
At the same time, we acquired companies has broadened the Micro Focus solution set and remain closely connected to developer communities in IT teams given the Company unmatched opportunities in growing markets.
at customer organisations through a number of channels.
A focus on sales and marketing during the last year is supplementing Our partner strategy continues to be an important element of our our technology foundations with an outward facing, market business and we continue to deepen our working relationships with orientation.
This knowledge and market insight is being channelled organisations such as Accenture, IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle.
The into product development prioritisation and go to market Micro Focus brand is strengthened by strong partnerships with these investments to drive an improved customer-focused culture.
well-known international technology leaders who provide the Group with important additional reach and access to prospective customers.
Training and development focus Seven acquisitions over the last four years have been supported by Summary and outlook extensive integration programmes to instil a common culture and Micro Focus three interlinked lines of business address a $6.4 billion consistent corporate values across all operations.
Many new recruits market opportunity and are growing, with the Modernization & from acquired companies have been presented with broader career Migration business growing at double digit levels and becoming opportunities, by joining a larger, successful international software increasingly material at the Group level.
group, than was offered by their prior company.
Micro Focus performance in the 12 months to the end of April 2010 With 48 of ces in 24 countries, international operations have has been driven by a combination of organic and acquired revenue scaled signi cantly over the last four years.
Local country managers and EBITDA growth.
While our current primary focus is on organic are growing into larger roles and responsibilities to motivate and growth, the Group will continue to review acquisition opportunities support larger teams with more challenging performance goals.
that have a strong complementary t to our stated strategy and The Company is investing in a progressive and comprehensive which pass our strict financial criteria.
leadership and talent development programme which was recently ranked fifth in Europe in the Global Fortune Top Companies for Underpinning a successful 2011 financial year is a focus on awless Leaders listings.
The programme identi es future leaders in the execution, to scale the Group for maximum sales productivity and Company and provides tailored development courses to help these organisational ef ciency.
Since reporting the preliminary results on individuals meet their potential and support the further growth of 24 June 2010, the management team has been strengthened Micro Focus.
with the appointments of Malcolm Collins as President of Sales, Jim Cassidy as Chief Marketing Of cer, and Adrian Saunders as A rewarding working environment Head of Professional Services to provide additional talent and Micro Focus understands that employees want to be in a challenging, experience.
Micro Focus has grown fast in the last four years to satisfying and enjoyable working environment.
Corporate trust and establish a signi cant market opportunity, a broad range of leading strong ethics underpin a culture that strives to achieve a balance software solutions, great people and a loyal and substantial customer between hard work and a rewarding and pleasant workplace.
These attributes, coupled with compelling nancials from a Community support is encouraged and backed strongly by employees.
resilient business model, position the Group for future success.
Of ces actively engage with local groups such as sports clubs, and importantly, charity initiatives for worthy causes are also well supported by employees.
This community support extends to global campaigns.
In May 2010, following fundraising efforts around the world, Micro Focus matched employee donations on a like-for-like basis and presented a cheque for 50,000 to the British Red Cross to help fund its work in Haiti following the natural disaster there earlier this year.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10 The best people The best people The Micro Focus workforce Leading technology Large and growing has more than doubled in size solutions customer base in the last two years to almost 1,500 in April 2010.
Serving our customers effectively Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT continued done so by building on solid foundations of existing products, and 1. through shrewd, carefully considered acquisitions of new technology.
Micro Focus is the worlds leading provider of enterprise application solutions helping approximately 18,000 customers to manage and modernize the IT systems that lie at the nerve centre of their business operations.
An expanded portfolio Throughout last year, Micro Focus has been absorbing new assets from Borland and Compuware.
We have talked to customers to understand the elements of each product set that they especially value, and have built a combined offering representing the best of both worlds and, importantly, an offering which blends well into the overall Micro Focus goal of supporting transformational and continuous improvement of companies IT and business assets.
Beyond the integration, we have continued to extend our solutions, bringing in more capabilities through partnerships and organic development.
Examples include SilkPerformer Diagnostics, combining performance testing and root cause diagnostics to accelerate the 2.
3. analysis of performance issues, and SilkPerformer Cloudburst, which extends SilkPerformers on-premise model with cloud loadgeneration technology, providing the exibility to drive load from either on-premise or in the cloud or both at the same time.
As a premier Microsoft partner, we were heavily involved in the launch of Visual Studio 2010, simultaneously releasing four closely integrated products, showcasing them around the world at Microsoft launch events.
These products included Micro Focus Visual COBOL, our latest version of the worlds leading business language, further enhancing companies abilities to leverage their existing IT assets within a.
Japan Ninth consecutive year of revenue growth, more than 40% increase on FY2009.
Modernization continues to be top priority for CIOs.
Bloated application portfolios are absorbing time, money and effort from 2.
Australia IT departments, severely affecting their ability to deliver real change Micro Focus doubled its revenues in Australia in FY2010, increasing licence revenues nearly 70%.
in the way things are done, and fuelling the need for consolidation and rationalisation of the estate they must manage.
North America In North America in FY2010 Micro Focus generated approximately $20 million in Funding such improvement is hard.
Investment must come from revenues from larger value Modernization & Migration transactions.
Larger value transactions are each in excess of $500,000.
And Micro Focus products are focused on helping companies achieve this.
Products such as Micro Focus Server Enterprise Edition for.
NET, enables transformational improvement by extending established mainframe migration capabilities, delivering Leading technology solutions CICS support as a managed.
NET component for the Microsoft Solid foundations for growth and innovation Application Platform including Azure.
The in uence of technology on business success continues to grow.
The economic and competitive environment continues to force Making customers lives simpler companies to look deeper into reserves of ingenuity, seeking out We aim to provide products which make the lives of our customers new and better ways to perform.
CIOs continue to wrestle with easier.
To help them build and run better applications more ef ciently the balancing act of keeping the lights on and driving the type of on the platforms that make most business sense for them.
Driving innovation that bene ts the business.
process improvement all the way along the delivery life cycle, through requirements, change management, development and As a technology provider, our customers have been looking to testing.
We do this by building on what we have and adding Micro Focus for more than 30 years to help them manage and wisely.
And in doing so, enable our customers to do the same.
control these forces to their advantage.
Over time, we have Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 The best people Leading technology solutions We have continued to extend Leading technology Large and growing our solutions, bringing in solutions customer base more capabilities through partnerships and organic development.
Serving our customers effectively Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT continued Market trends towards Modernization & Migration 1.
Micro Focus customer relationships for its leading COBOL Development and AMQ solutions have more recently been supplemented by new contacts at higher decision levels for larger Application Modernization & Migration projects.
During the last four years, Micro Focus has served an increasing number of senior CIOs and CFOs as these business leaders recognise the compelling cost reduction and enhanced productivity bene ts available from migrations to open systems from proprietary operating platforms.
In 2006, Micro Focus revenues consisted of an average sales price of approximately $5,000, and there were no transactions above $500,000.
During FY2010, Modernization & Migration projects were part of an average sales price of approximately $14,000, and there 1.
Germany were more individual customer transactions of greater value than Revenues in Germany more than doubled in FY2010, with a quadrupling of $500,000 than during FY2009.
More CIOs see the business logic behind migration projects, saving 2.
Nordics Micro Focus operations in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden increased cost by moving platform at the same time as retaining all the home revenues by 40% in FY2010.
grown intellectual property in the applications.
In addition, these same customers are achieving greater productivity thanks to more exible and user friendly applications on new operating systems, such as cloud Large and growing customer base computing, that are now ready for rapid scaling and deployment to Micro Focus serves approximately 18,000 customers around the new employees, of ces or stores, or into a web or cloud environment.
world and has supported organisations application management Micro Focus customers in this Modernization & Migration area are requirements for more than 30 years.
Serving customers across a across many industry sectors, from financial services to retail, and from wide range of industries and in the public sector, the Company telecoms to healthcare.
has developed deep working relationships at multiple levels in customer organisations.
Case study Owens & Minor Leadership in COBOL Development Corporate Pro le: Extensive experience in COBOL Development technologies has $8 billion revenue in FY2009.
established Micro Focus as the leading partner in meeting its Founded in 1882, headquartered in Richmond, Virginia, US.
customers business needs for effective off mainframe application 4,800 employees.
No other software Market leader in the sales & distribution of medical and surgical company is able to replicate Micro Focus expertise in this area and supplies to hospitals.
this has contributed to strong customer loyalty and high maintenance renewal rates of approximately 90%.
Business critical COBOL 4,600 healthcare provider customers.
applications exist in many organisations IT systems, representing years of accumulated business intelligence that enable these companies to Business Challenge: operate effectively and serve their customer needs.
Today, there are Custom ERP system running on mainframe.
more lines of COBOL code written every day than are retired, and Decades of Owens & Minors business processes in applications organisations continue to recognise the need for the ongoing containing 10 million lines of COBOL code.
management of these business critical applications.
Micro Focus is the Escalating annual operating costs.
best equipped software player in the market to address these needs.
New customers in AMQ The recent acquisitions of Borland and AMQ Compuware have Modernization & Migration: brought new customers that increasingly recognise the bene ts of end Preserve Owens & Minor custom systems and business rules.
AMQ solutions are an important part Estimated $150 million cost estimate for alternative package or of every CIOs business imperatives and Micro Focus has positioned rewrite options.
itself well to address a greater breadth of customers technology and 10 million lines of COBOL code moved easily with Micro Focus solutions.
Customers in this area have received regular updates Signi cant, ongoing operating expense savings from the new from Micro Focus since the acquisitions were announced to reassure platform: savings fund modernization of user interfaces and data.
them that their technology investments are safe and that there is a robust, combined, Borland and Compuware AMQ solution portfolio 100% more capacity for technology R&D.
to better meet their needs.
The strong technology capabilities of the 4x faster processing of orders.
Borland solutions have been integrated with the popular Compuware Signi cant increases in developer productivity and data more front end user interface to deliver a well-received product set.
This available to all employees for quicker response times to customers.
AMQ solution set will develop signi cantly in the coming months of FY2011 to provide a clear path for customers Testing and AMQ Faster to market with new services and technology.
challenges across multiple computer language codes, and multiple Support to Owens & Minor company growth without additional platforms from mainframe to open systems to the cloud.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14 The best people Large and growing customer base The recent acquisitions of Borland and AMQ Leading technology Large and growing Compuware have brought new solutions customer base customers that increasingly recognise the bene ts of end to end application management.
Serving our customers effectively Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Business review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT continued New sales channels 1.
To reach more customers through multiple product offerings, the Company is developing new routes to market.
Telesales have been reintroduced as a logical response to effectively and ef ciently provide lower value product offerings.
We now have over 100 telesales representatives and we will continue to invest in this route to market for a number of its COBOL Development and AMQ products, following good progress in the early stages of this initiative.
During FY2011, Micro Focus will also develop a web sales channel.
As a result of the Borland and AMQ Compuware acquisitions, the Company has inherited a number of lower cost products that are 1.
India ideally covered by an online sales channel to supplement existing Micro Focus opened its Indian operations only recently and saw signi cant growth routes to market.
in this new market, generating revenues in excess of $5 million in FY2010.
The growing Modernization & Migration business line can bene t 2.
Iberia Despite a very strong year in FY2009 in Spain and Portugal, Micro Focus doubled from a specialist approach with strategic customer interaction.
Micro its revenues in the region in FY2010.
Focus is drawing on its success in this area to identify rapid response teams, including presales and technology specialists, to provide relevant and strategic insights to new opportunities in this area.
Serving our customers effectively A focused customer reference programme is also a powerful Four years ago, Micro Focus served a $620 million market reassurance to help those CIOs considering this route.
To address its current $6.4 billion market opportunity across three lines of business, Micro Focus is changing the way it Independent software vendors attracts and serves its customers.
ISVs account for approximately a quarter of all licence fee sales.
Working with approximately 750 ISVs, from large companies like Product prioritisation Oracle to smaller local players, Micro Focus will continue to help these In response to customer demand and market research, Micro Focus companies modernize the COBOL-rich packages they offer their end 250 products have been placed in nine categories to support the customers.
Key initiatives in FY2011 will focus on helping these ISVs three main sources of Company revenues COBOL Development, to maximise their revenue opportunities in continuing tough economic Modernization & Migration and AMQ.
This work has been done conditions thanks to new business models, such as those offered following detailed reviews of market and revenue growth through cloud based services.
For example, Micro Focus Enterprise opportunities, and analysis of the competitive landscape at a Cloud Services has enabled North American based ISV Data Strategies technology and geographic basis.
Customer support spans the to manage its customers data for compliance, risk management and breadth of application management and modernization, helping records management on a low-cost cloud platform.
organisations address the business challenges they face today, but also offering clear paths to bene t from future trends such as cloud Strengthened professional services based solutions.
Aligned to the Modernization & Migration business is a need for effective professional services.
These transformation projects are more In addition, the Group is developing effective customer and prospect involved than lower cost product offerings and require senior level segmentation work to improve go to market strategies, identifying expertise and professional project management for the customer.
six customer sets across the nine product lines.
Micro Focus has offered consulting services for a number of years, however this group is being strengthened to support Modernization Micro Focus appreciates the enduring customer relationships in & Migration growth.
its long-standing COBOL Development line of business.
We will maintain technology leadership and a deep understanding of Micro Focus Modernization & Migration projects are increasingly application development and deployment requirements and progressed alongside partners, such as Accenture.
These partnerships, continue to be the best placed software partner for their needs.
as well as effective working relationships with leading technology players such as HP, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle will continue to drive The go to market teams are structured under three geographic customer opportunities and brand awareness moving forward.
regions North America, APAC and International with the separate AMQ sales division working closely alongside the three regional teams.
Serving our customers An increasing number of customers are interested in the full breadth Approximately 90% of Micro Focus customers renew their of Micro Focus portfolio including AMQ offerings.
Our work with organisations around the world relates to the technology that runs their operations.
We understand the responsibilities of our role and act in partnership with customers to monitor and maintain first class software that helps them to be successful today and tomorrow.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16 The best people Serving our customers effectively Leading technology Large and growing Approximately 90% of solutions customer base Micro Focus customers renew their maintenance contracts.
Serving our customers effectively Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17
