Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executives Our vision review of the market and strategy To be the UKs preferred choice for informal eating-out, with great brands that satisfy key customer occasions, to grow shareholder value.
We will achieve our vision through the consistent delivery of our five strategic imperatives: 1.
Focusing the business on the growth in the eating-out market 2.
Developing national brands with high customer af nity and relevance 3.
Generating high returns on investment through scale advantages Adam Fowle 4.
Extending the skill base of operational excellence and Chief Executive consumer focus 5.
Continuing the sound financial base with a exible approach to property ownership Strategic highlights % % 47 90 Food sales mix up from 31% only All our brands have guest satisfaction five years ago Retained Estate levels above 90% k m 180 500 Operating pro t per pub, one of the Total cash proceeds of 500m received highest in the industry Retained Estate through non-core asset disposals This review OFR has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement The Operating and Financial Review.
All numbers except where stated are before exceptional items.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2010 Taste testing Customer feedback The dishes on our menus are carefully created by our Customer feedback enables us to continually evolve food development teams and assessed by our brand our brands and offers.
This year over 650,000 of our teams and consumer panels to ensure we serve the customers completed online feedback forms.
We also best plate of food to our customers day after day.
sent over 16 million email newsletters to subscribers and our brands communicated with over 260,000 Facebook fans.
In FY 2010 the business has demonstrated the improvement in net operating a good performance with EPS up 26% in margins to 16.3% up by one percentage a period where the UK has experienced point in the year: and a subdued consumer environment including the deleveraging of the balance sheet the January VAT rise.
with net debt to EBITDA now at five times.
We have also made excellent progress Trading in the first eight weeks of FY 2011 towards delivering the strategic plan, as has continued strongly with like-for-like announced in March 2010.
The three most sales growth of 3.7%.
This is an encouraging signi cant areas in which the Company has start to the year and underlines Mitchells delivered have been: & Butlers operational skills and brand strength, and reinforces our con dence the rapid reshaping into a food-led in the future prospects of the business.
business which was assisted by the disposal of 333 price-sensitive The market drinks-led pubs: Mitchells & Butlers operates in the eating-out and drinking-out markets which have a combined size of some 68bn.
The Market consumer expenditure bn eating-out market has doubled in value over the past two decades to 42bn whilst 80 the drinking-out market is currently worth 60 some 26bn having declined over the last 40 five years.
The three main trends impacting these markets are: 20 0 1.
The growing appeal of eating-out 1984 1989 1994 1999 2004 2009 Growing wealth, increasing discretionary 19842009 CAGR Actual Nominal Real spend and a number of social factors, Eating-out 7.5% 2.6% particularly the increase in the proportion Drinking-out 3.7% 0.9 % of working women, the growth in lessTotal 5.6% 0.9% traditional family structures and the increase Eating-out Wine Spirits Beer in single households have all contributed to Source: ONS the growth in the eating-out market.
Eating-out market includes soft drinks first half of this year the eating-out market declined, as it did in the 1991 recession, Outperformance of eating-out market however, encouragingly, the market 12 month moving average total.
Retained Estate only returned to its underlying long-term growth 8.0% rates in the second half of the year.
The resilience of drink sales with food 7% outperformance The eating-out occasion is always combined 2.0% with a drink and therefore, as a result of the 0.0% growing appeal of eating-out, associated Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul drink sales have also seen good growth, 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 particularly resulting in a greater proportion Source: Crest data, the NPD Group of wine and non-alcoholic drinks being sold.
06 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The business is now focused on the growth in the informal eating-out brands market.
We aim to give customers great experiences, offering them well sourced, carefully prepared and nutritionally people varied menus.
Supporting this, over 400 Toby, Crown trust Carvery and Harvester restaurants now provide information about the calories, salt and fat content of their menus online, with the aim of all brands providing this information by the end of 2011.
Toby Carvery Welcoming, accessible traditional pub restaurants with carvery experts creating Sunday every day for all guests, whatever the occasion Mitchells & Butlers plc 07 Annual report and accounts 2010 By understanding our customers and markets, we are able to offer the right brands experience and environments to ensure our brands remain the number one choice.
people Our aim is to own and operate brands that have a signi cant site distribution throughout the country coupled with enjoy very high levels of customer satisfaction.
During the year all our brands have achieved guest satisfaction levels of over 90%, which has driven continued strong like-for-like sales growth and an outperformance of the food market by over seven percentage points.
Crown Carveries Top quality carvery meals at great prices within a friendly local pub serving good value drinks 08 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Supply chain management Marketing TV advertisements We believe that getting closer to our suppliers is This year our Harvester, Sizzling Pub Co. and Toby important, therefore we build strong, collaborative Carvery brands each executed national television partnerships where both parties can bene t and advertising campaigns, helping them reach millions prosper from the relationship.
Crown Carveries also launched a national television advertising campaign in November 2010.
This trend has been supported by an signi cant growth potential.
To this end, increasing customer appetite for sharing we announced in August the sale of 333 plates and lighter snacks that mean that drinks-led businesses, where there was increasingly more social occasions combine limited potential to grow food sales, and drink and food.
We estimate that around have in addition sold our tenpin bowling 10bn, or 40%, of the drinking-out market business and the majority of our lodge relates to drinks with food with a growth interests.
We have also completed over rate in line with the eating-out market.
50 conversions to our food-led brands with strong incremental returns.
The rapid decline of drinking-out focus has generated a 4.7% growth in food not in conjunction with food sales and a food sales mix of 47% up from Over the last 20 years two out of three 31% only five years ago.
regular pub drinkers who visited the pub two or three times a week have altered Developing national brands with their behaviour and now drink at home.
high customer af nity and relevance This trend has been driven primarily by Our aim is to own and operate brands the low price of alcohol in the off-trade that have a signi cant site distribution such that nearly two-thirds of all alcohol is throughout the country coupled with very purchased from supermarkets now.
We high levels of customer satisfaction.
Many estimate that the market for drinking-out of our brands already have good brand without food has decreased by 4% per recognition and a substantial number of annum over the last five years.
sites: however, we see potential to grow this much further.
All our brands have Our strategy satisfaction levels above 90% and this, Mitchells & Butlers has developed its together with our experience that has business strategy to focus on the growth shown that new users of our brands are parts of the eating and drinking-out market.
highly likely to return regularly, means that Our objective is to be the UKs preferred we are con dent that we can signi cantly choice for informal eating and drinking-out increase our restaurant numbers.
with market leading brands that provide excellent customer service, range and Generating high returns on quality across the key customer occasions investment through scale advantages and grow shareholder value.
Our strategy Our objective is to increase our scale to achieve this goal has five key elements: advantages at the restaurant: brand: and corporate level to drive higher site Focusing the business on the pro tability.
Labour productivity is the key growth in the eating-out market advantage of scale at the pub level with Over the last decade our understanding brand scale enhancing staff training and of the UK market combined with our advertising bene ts.
Corporate scale operational skills have helped us to take enables signi cant synergies to be gained advantage of the increase in demand for in menu development and system eating-out and thereby to exploit pro tably improvements.
This is particularly the case its attractive long-term trends.
We are in purchasing, where scale buying bene ts reshaping Mitchells & Butlers into a foodin food and drink, distribution and capital led business centred on core concepts with expenditure can be signi cant.
Each of Mitchells & Butlers plc 09 Annual report and accounts 2010 Retaining and training the best Expertise To ensure we serve great tasting meals to customers Around 1,000 of our pubs are Cask Marque accredited time after time, many of our employees undertake and we implement drinks quality training across all training at our dedicated Kitchen Skills Academy in categories.
In beer, we partner with Cask Marque, BII Watford or our Food Innovation Centres in Walsall and Beer Academy to offer accredited training to our and Hemel Hempstead.
Our bespoke Quality Educational Spirit and Soft Drinks Training scheme is accredited by the BII and we are developing similar training schemes for wine and hot drinks.
these factors is a key driver of improved Continuing the sound financial returns and pro tability per site with base with a exible approach to Mitchells & Butlers EBIT per outlet of property ownership almost 180k being one of the highest in The Company has in place an attractive the industry.
This high site pro tability also long-term debt nancing at xed interest enables acquisitions to be made where sites rates that appropriately matches the stable, can be converted into our strong brands at long-term cash generative nature of the high returns on investment.
The Board is comfortable with in September 2010 we acquired 22 pub a net debt to EBITDA ratio of around restaurants from Ha!
for conversion five times that gives the business ample mainly to All Bar One and Browns, where headroom and opportunity to develop and we expect to achieve EBITDA returns of grow the Company in line with its strategic around 25%.
This long-term debt nancing is backed by Mitchells & Butlers 4bn Extending the skill base of operational asset base.
Moving forwards we will have excellence and consumer focus a exible approach to property ownership We remain focused on attracting seeking both freehold, and an increasing and training people with the skills and amount of leasehold opportunities as motivation to deliver exceptional customer they arise.
service and to support the operational strategy of the business.
At the pub level Outlook therefore a 13-week training programme The outlook for consumer spending is conducted with all new staff, as well remains uncertain in light of Government as speci c ongoing coaching to improve spending cuts and the VAT increase bar and kitchen staff service productivity in January.
However, the strength and increase staff product knowledge.
In of Mitchells & Butlers brands, the addition in support of our food growth effectiveness of its marketing platform, strategy, our staff members have its operational capabilities and strong undertaken 3,100 NVQs during the year, capex returns underpin the Boards predominantly related to the training of con dence in the Companys prospects.
The results of our focus on people are impressive with retail Conclusion management turnover down 4% and a 2% It has been a good year.
We have made improvement in overall guest satisfaction, excellent progress against a clear but food and drink quality and service speed, demanding strategy.
Mitchells & Butlers as measured by our customers.
continues to trade very strongly even though the markets we operate in remain subdued.
Our balance sheet is robust and, as a consequence, the business is very well positioned for future growth.
10 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We ensure everything we do is performed to the highest possible brands standard, resulting in a level of service that creates a memorable experience.
people Our people are the critical element in the delivery of this vision, therefore we have trained and recruited over 14,000 remember under 21s in the year and in support of our food growth strategy our staff members have undertaken 3,100 NVQs, predominantly related to the training of new chefs.
The results of this focus are impressive with improvements in food and drink quality and service speed, as measured by our customers.
Vintage Inns Traditional country inns with real character and cosy interiors providing a warm, relaxed atmosphere, excellent wines, cask-conditioned ales and good food Mitchells & Butlers plc 11 Annual report and accounts 2010
