14 14 M MIIT TIIE E G Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Marketplace overview Serving a broad range of clients and markets Other sectors are also changing We expect partnerships between the Private sector procurement models and we have public and private sector to be important Contribution to seen considerable tender activity in in the transformation of the Government Group and value 55% 0.9bn retail, transport and utilities.
We have estate and they will support the Sector Market MITIE benefited from these changes and are achievement of Sustainable Operation size pa share seeing particularly high levels of private of Government Estate SOGE targets.
Finance and professional 5bn 4.6% sector tenders.
The Carbon Reduction Commitment Manufacturing 5bn 2.1% CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme will Technology and communications 4bn 3.5% Retail 5bn 2.8% also affect many public sector offices.
Public sector Property management 6bn 3.0% The CRC, which came into force in April Utilities 8bn 0.8% Contribution to 2010, is a huge part of the Governments Group and value Transport and logistics 11bn 0.9% 45% 0.8bn pledge to reduce greenhouse gas Construction 9bn 0.5% Sector Market size pa MITIE share emissions by at least 80% from 1990 levels Leisure 6bn 0.4% Government 7bn 4.0% by 2050.
The scheme will see organisations The drive to reduce costs and a focus on Social housing 10bn 2.4% with total half-hourly metered electricity Education 13bn 1.4% sustainability are the two principal areas consumption greater than 6,000 mega Healthcare 11bn 1.1% of focus for all our clients at present.
watt hours a year equivalent to Organisations are seeking to drive down We expect opportunities in the public approximately 460,000 electricity spend their costs through integrated services, sector to expand as Government seeks to forced to buy allowances for each tonne supplier rationalisation, retendering and reduce expenditure and improve service of carbon dioxide CO2 they emit and innovation.
In addition, consolidation levels and sustainability.
The reduction of be placed in a league table according drives the market to consider the structure the fiscal deficit in the UK will be a priority to their energy performance.
of its cost base and bring new and for the Government in the coming years These anticipated changes present extended outsourcing opportunities.
and MITIE is well-positioned to support a significant opportunity for MITIE and this agenda.
Consequently we continue The ability to deliver integrated services, we are continuing to invest in our sales to focus on and invest in our client our unrivalled coverage across the UK and proposition in the public sector.
We are proposition in this important market.
our technology platform are increasingly recruiting and training sector specialists becoming key differentiators for our In simple terms, increasing levels of to help with bids and manage contracts, private sector clients.
Some of our clients outsourcing have the ability to reduce tailored to the needs of each of the are also seeking alternative approaches costs and increase innovation, delivering sectors we focus on and extending our to outsourcing by taking a whole life view more for less.
It is likely that outsourcing will reach into the public sector.
Our ability to and linking the initial capital expenditure be used to create new services models create innovative, fit-for-purpose solutions to the lifetime operating expenditure of and to improve the efficiency of public that satisfy the Governments green their contracts.
Shared services models objectives and need for cost reduction could be developed to reduce the costs positions us particularly well in this space.
There is still considerable impetus for of management and administration change in the private sector as clients look of Government with support services to increase efficiency in both cost and benefiting from a private sector approach carbon.
The financial and professional that has consistently demonstrated services sector was one of the first to react improvements to productivity over the to economic conditions and has been at long-term within Government.
the forefront of a number of large scale contracts that have increased geographical coverage or increased the range of services and sometimes both.
This trend continues with a number of current large scale opportunities.
Based on pro-forma numbers in respect of the acquisitions during the year.
15 15 M MIIT TIIE G E Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 The market continues to demonstrate an appetite for 1 integration, either through the amalgamation of a number 7 2 of service lines through one contract or through horizontal integration across a service line to create economies of scale.
6 3 The outsourcing model is changing towards larger, integrated 5 4 contracts and MITIE is moving with the market.
Integrated Our strategy contracts now account for over 57% of our total contracts and 01 01 Integration we are seeing integration across services and also within services as clients seek to simplify their procurement strategies and reduce costs.
Our integrated contracts operate with one team focused on the clients needs.
Our technology platform and management processes all support seamless service delivery and reporting.
3 38 8 7 : 1 MITIE designed and installed the mechanical and electrical systems in the newly renovated National Audit Office building.
In addition to our contract to maintain the M&E systems in the years to come, we also commenced onsite operations of the 60 60 integrated facilities management in November 2009.
As well as delivering seven essential services, we have introduced a number of measures which support them on their path to achieving government sustainability targets.
Mel Williams Contract Manager and Manjit Parmar Contract Facilities Manager Research puts the value of the EMEA International markets Europe, Middle East and Africa There has recently been increased integrated services market at about demand from our UK private sector 30bn and growing rapidly.
Clients are clients for MITIE to expand its UK delivery looking for a different type of response capability to other regions.
European that provides compliance as an procurement teams are now taking the integrated part of a solution comprising lead for cross border procurement activity management skills, a technology and we expect an international mix platform that allows visibility of expense going forward.
We have developed an at all locations and for the organisation international strategy with a number of as a whole and solid competence in our key clients and have invested in a service delivery.
senior management team with extensive The key considerations are geography, overseas experience.
They will be working competencies, management capabilities closely with our partners in Service and the ability to operate locally.
Client Management International SMI to procurement drivers in this area are less develop opportunities for MITIE.
SMI is a about the individual services and more specialist provider of international facilities about reducing the cost base, increasing service solutions, delivering on-site to efficiency and finding greater agility in blue chip multinationals worldwide.
a framework of risk management and corporate compliance.
A Acco ccou un nt ts s Go Gov five er rna nanc nce e B Bu us si in ne es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w O Ove ver rv viie ew w
