08 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives strategy review Overview MITIE is in an exciting position.
We are a business with tremendous capability Focusing that is able to provide clients with the widest range of solutions to help them meet their strategic business and property challenges.
Clients want us to on strategic do more.
More strategic engagement, broader geographic coverage, capital investment, integrated service delivery and leading management information priorities systems.
Clients want partners that they trust and can rely on as their businesses adapt to the changing economic climate in both good times and bad.
MITIE is now a high volume transactional outsourcing business.
We have the capability and technical infrastructure to manage the transfer of thousands of people in very short timescales.
We manage clients compliance, risk, employment and legislative requirements while delivering innovative solutions, efficiently.
As our clients grow and diversify so will we.
We have a robust and challenging growth plan that recognises the importance of our expanding markets and opportunities and supports the development of our business overseas.
This will not however be at the cost of what has made MITIE such a success.
We are passionate about keeping the spirit of innovation and empowerment that has made MITIE flexible enough to provide exactly what our clients need.
We want our people to identify new markets and to be ready to develop them.
We know that our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain good people, so we will always have incentive schemes that promote and reward excellent performance.
Above all we will always put our clients first.
Having clients who really value what we do and who want to develop longterm relationships does not happen by chance.
Spending time with clients, listening to their issues and helping them to construct solutions is what we do best.
09 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Our strategy Our market opportunity Our strategy has seven elements all of Market conditions are attractive for MITIE which contribute to delivering stakeholder as our ability to deliver cost and carbon value through a focus on sustainable reductions for our clients comes to the profitable growth.
Current economic conditions have provided further impetus for change in We provide value for all of our the industry as clients see the tangible stakeholders: clients: employees: 01 benefits that outsourcing delivers, in the shareholders: the communities in which form of lower costs, more innovation and we operate: and other organisations we improved value for money.
Growth provides benefits for has evolved we have successfully our stakeholders, and our commitment positioned the Group as a partner of is to growth in profits that is sustainable.
choice for our clients, having continued By sustainable we mean that we grow to secure and retain large contracts profits every year and that we do it the throughout the year.
We care about our impacts on investment in people, systems and the environment and on society.
We are technical capabilities gives us confidence a responsible business because we that we can drive economies of scale believe that is the right way to be.
All of for our business and that of our clients these strategic elements influence the going forward.
From our corporate responsibility CR plans to performance We offer a number of differentiated management for our people, we capabilities to our clients, which will help measure ourselves on our contribution them to introduce further efficiencies 38 to the following seven areas of strategic throughout their organisations.
We have focus, which are covered in further detail built the capability to manage any size throughout this report: portfolio of buildings or assets and have the ability to deliver this across multiple regions.
We offer a tried and tested 1 capability to manage large scale 7 2 transactional activity for our clients, Seven which drives efficiency in their back office 6 3 strategic 60 structures, particularly in the areas of 5 4 elements supply chain, employment and payroll management.
Energy and carbon efficiency is becoming an integral part 1.
Clients of all our contracts and is increasingly Deliver value to our clients by providing embedded in everything we do.
world-class service Technology also has an important part to 2.
People play and the investments we are making Recruit, motivate and retain the now will ensure that we offer the most best talent in the industry efficient service in the marketplace, now and in the future.
Risk Take a long-term view to protect In the private sector we have seen high our business and manage risk levels of activity across our client base as they respond to the efficiency challenges 4.
Responsibility faced by every organisation.
This has Act responsibly and build a resulted in an increasing level of private reputation that enhances our sector tender activity for all services and brand to all stakeholders we see this trend continuing as businesses 5.
Integration seek to consolidate acquired operations Leverage our strong position to or enhance efficiency in existing secure more integrated and larger structures.
The public sector faces the scale contracts prospect of considerable pressure on expenditure in the coming years.
Profitability We believe that this will create significant Focus on growing a profitable opportunities for the outsourcing market business, maintaining margins as contracts will tend to become larger 7.
Acquisitions and broader in scope.
Support our growth with selective acquisitions View our strategic progress through our Group KPIs 3435 Accounts Governance Business review Overview 10 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives strategy review Acquisitions are a key part of our strategy and they support 1 our long-term growth plans.
Our two significant acquisitions 7 2 in 2009 are now integrated into the Group.
6 3 MITIEs acquisition strategy seeks to enhance shareholder value by introducing new and scalable capabilities that build long- 5 4 term revenues, maintain margin levels and fit with the MITIE Our strategy brand.
A number of key factors drive our acquisition framework, Acquisitions including sector priorities, business differentiators, capability gaps, and market and brand stretch.
The acquisition of Dalkia FM introduced the CarbonCare concept and brand to MITIE.
We have subsequently launched MITIE CarbonCare across our Group and it now forms a core part of our important and growing carbon management programme.
The satisfaction of our clients is central to our strategy of 1 delivering sustainable profitable growth.
We have invested time 7 2 this year improving our understanding of our clients needs in order to reinforce our client strategy.
6 3 Our clients see consolidation as the way forward and are 5 4 looking to outsource more aggressively as they seek to cut costs Our strategy and enhance carbon efficiency.
They want to be clear about Clients what the benefits are and how they can be realised.
Thats why we are introducing new technology that reduces costs for us and our clients and allows us to provide a smoother delivery of integrated services.
We are helping our clients either by consolidating their supplier bases within specific service lines or by bundling services together, or a combination of the two.
Our clients tell us that sustainability and carbon targets are increasingly important issues.
We have responded by launching CarbonCare, which will see energy management become a part of every service we offer.
42m Our strategic approach to outsourcing has allowed us to save our client 42m over five years by integrating their cleaning services with just one supplier across their entire UK portfolio.
We are harmonising work process across their business, with one supplier and one specification, delivering one look and feel to the whole estate.
Allison Emerson Head of Account for Lloyds Banking Group, and Dave Wilkins Project Manager 11 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01 15% We successfully reduced North Somersets schools energy spend by over 15%.
CarbonCare offers a full range of integrated services that help organisations manage down their energy use and carbon footprint.
Our expertise ranges from measuring carbon 38 exposure, developing comprehensive energy strategies, eliminating waste, identifying effective clean energy alternatives, to challenges with a more human dimension like encouraging behavioural change in the workforce.
Mike Sewell Marketing Director, Technical Facilities Management 60 We anticipate higher levels of tender Acquisitions will continue to feature as part We have moved some of the elements activity to result in the medium term.
of our growth strategy but our approach of the Asset Management business to Whilst this may not have any material will always be to acquire businesses that other divisions to reflect market changes effect on our anticipated performance have strong management teams with and client preferences.
during the current year, we believe that similar cultural values to ours.
We want The Technical Facilities Management in subsequent years we will benefit from to acquire businesses for fair prices that business is a stand alone division providing the efficiency agenda that is expected complement our existing capabilities and a range of services for clients that have to impact central and local government.
enhance what we are able to offer our a preference for facilities management clients, particularly in terms of property with an energy and technical emphasis.
and estate management, environmental Our engineering contracting operations Investment in our capability and carbon consultancy.
We will properly have moved from Asset Management integrate each acquisition so that clients Acquisitions to Property Management allowing the will be able to receive seamless support residual Asset Management division to In 2009 we utilised our strong financial from MITIE as we develop.
focus on providing energy performance position to make two strategically services, infrastructure and asset important acquisitions, Dalkia FM and EPS Operational development investment solutions to clients that are Ltd, which are trading well.
The acquisition The operations of MITIE have been looking to optimise performance in a of Dalkia FM was made in August 2009 realigned as a result of the acquisitions rapidly evolving energy environment.
and we are particularly pleased with the of Dalkia FM and EPS Ltd so that with progress made by our teams in creating a effect from 1 April 2010 we are structured fully integrated technical FM business that into four divisions.
These are Facilities complements the capabilities and skills of Management, Technical Facilities our traditional soft FM services business.
Management, Property Management and Asset Management.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 12 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives strategy review People The importance of recognising and rewarding our people cannot be As our business is dependent upon having underestimated.
We have further motivated, quality people we have a expanded our MITIE Stars programme to talent management programme in place reward exceptional performance by our to ensure that we have the right people people and in 2008 introduced MITIEs with the skills our clients value.
MiFuture Got Talent as a Group-wide talent contest is the programme that formalises our to encourage employee engagement approach to talent management and and recognition.
In November 2009 we ranges from work experience and an launched MitieRewards which is our innovative graduate programme, brand new employee benefit rewards to talent mapping for our top managers scheme available to all employees.
and bespoke coaching programmes for senior management.
The Groups culture of employee equity 1 involvement is a significant driver in the Increasingly, our clients are asking us to 7 2 Groups growth performance and assists have the capability to support them in attracting and retaining our employees.
across all of the countries in which they 6 3 We continue to operate: the MITIE Long operate.
MITIE is able to respond to this Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and 5 4 demand and has expanded its reward senior employees of MITIE: the Our strategy management team to enhance its Executive Share Option Scheme for People international expertise through the certain other employees below Board targeted recruitment of key people and level and the Savings Related Share the development of its international supply Option Scheme which is open to all chain.
As the scale and complexity of our eligible employees of the Group.
clients needs increase both in the UK and abroad, we have also selected a team of Technology people who will be dedicated to largescale, integrated contracts and this Our technology infrastructure provides specialised group will be at the forefront of us with the platform to support our MITIEs strategic outsourcing opportunities.
clients, our contracts and our business.
Clients increasingly want real time We are committed to fostering and information on the performance of developing a culture of employee their assets and estates that is available involvement in the business through online and accessible 24 hours a day.
This capability will be increasingly We embrace new technologies important as we develop our business and see real value in social networking, in the UK and overseas.
recognising the influence it has on our people and industry as it becomes an Over the last three years, we have increasingly important part of our lives.
invested in our systems to ensure that they We are at the forefront of social are robust and can support us as we grow.
419 networking and encourage all our Our investment has been focused on MITIE prides itself on developing new talent and this employees and stakeholders to expand back office support through the roll-out is demonstrated through our practice of employing and providing vocational training for apprentices.
their networks in new and innovative ways.
of a new finance and human resources We are one of the largest employers of apprentices in Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, RSS, MiNet administration system and on operational the UK, currently employing 419 trade apprentices across our business and many more in short-term and SMS are all utilised as part of our systems.
We have developed a client service apprenticeships.
The Group facing management information suite Four of MITIEs prize-winning apprentices: also communicates with employees that has the capacity to provide Callum Wilson, Edwin Mensah, Rachel Green, through the use of: mailings and updates: comprehensive asset performance Thomas Mizuro employee-focused initiatives: businessdata to our clients and our teams to specific intranet sites: and broadcasts enable the most efficient FM solution of financial presentations.
to be tailored to their needs.
We see these developments as critical to MITIE and create differentiation of our service offering within the marketplace.
13 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01 Looking forward We are very positive about MITIEs future prospects and remain committed to our strategy of delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Further market consolidation and the continued drive for efficiency, change and enhanced service levels will drive the growth of the business.
This will be reinforced by the ongoing shift to integrated contracts with greater complexities and which are increasingly energy focused.
We are continuing to invest in our business, principally in the areas of sales, geographic expansion, talent management and 38 technology.
We have created a step change in our capabilities this year as a result of the investments we have already made, leaving us in a strong position to deliver substantial growth.
We have excellent visibility of future revenues, a growing long-term order book and an unprecedented level of 60 bid opportunities.
We have experienced an extremely positive start to the new financial year with new contract awards which demonstrate our ability to provide complex integrated services utilising MITIEs extensive capabilities.
We are at an exciting stage in the evolution of our business and we look forward to a year of opportunity and strong growth.
Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive Outsourcing is a people-based business and we are acutely aware of how critical our people are to our business.
Recruiting and retaining the right people is also one of our biggest challenges.
As MITIE has shifted from single service delivery to a solutions-driven approach, we have made significant investments in attracting, training and retaining the right people.
Our apprentice and graduate programme are also important elements of our talent management.
Looking forward, we remain focused on talent identification, movement and succession planning as we challenge and motivate our management teams to keep pace with the business increasing commercial complexity Accounts Governance Business review Overview
