qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 18 Chief executives review David Hathorn CEO The 2010 financial year saw a much improved financial unnecessary additional capacity and continues to rationalise performance from the Mondi Group.
After the turmoil of 2008 surplus capacity to ensure that supply is in line with and early 2009 created by the global financial crisis, the demand, particularly in those grades that are in secular recovery we noted in late 2009 continued into 2010.
Our decline in the mature western markets.
Mondi, however, strong performance confirms the validity of our strategy and, has limited exposure to grades that are experiencing this coupled with the completion of the substantial investments decline, with our strategic portfolio being weighted towards made over the past years, means that we are now in a period higher-growth economies.
where shareholders should on average enjoy increased levels of free cash generation.
We will continue to regularly assess Financial results our product portfolio to ensure maximum value is achieved The Groups underlying operating profit improved consistently and while growth clearly remains an option, we will continue to be disciplined as regards acquisitions and expansionary through the year and the year end figure of E509 million was capital expenditure, and will use this increased free cash flow 73% up on the prior year.
The European Corrugated business to reduce debt and increase distributions to shareholders.
achieved a significant improvement in underlying operating profit to E119 million, 417% up on the prior year, while Turning to the industry fundamentals, demand growth underlying operating profit for UFP and Bags & Coatings was over the past 18 months has been very encouraging, with up 23% and 62%, respectively.
Profits in South Africa doubled volumes back at satisfactory levels.
Further demand growth compared with 2009, with the improvements to the South is expected, albeit at more modest rates.
Recent industry Africa Divisions underlying operating profit largely due to capacity adjustments have also resulted in generally restructuring, cost savings and increased pulp exports.
The stronger fundamentals, which together with the continued South African packaging operations again delivered a very demand recovery and low stock levels, has resulted in a pleasing performance operating profit up 42% with ongoing positive pricing environment.
Looking forward, it is important that the industry shows constraint by not investing in tight cost control, stable prices and increased volumes.
18 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 19 Mondi uses average return on capital employed ROCE as During 2010, Mondi successfully launched a E500 million, a key measurement of performance and following the seven-year Eurobond, further strengthening the Group's disappointing return achieved in 2009, the 2010 return of already robust financial position as evidenced by the long 12.3% bears testament to the significant achievements driven term corporate credit ratings received of Baa3 from Moody's by management across the Group over the course of the year.
Investor Service and BB from Standard & Poor's, both with It is worth noting that our Europe & International operations a stable outlook.
The funds have been used to reduce achieved a very pleasing ROCE of 14.5% and while the existing short and medium term debt.
returns in the South Africa Division remain unsatisfactory, Sustained delivery on Group strategy the South African packaging returns are encouraging.
Mondis robust strategy continues to deliver results and we We have also benefited from our access to raw materials and will take opportunities to strengthen our position as the backward integration of our larger mills with average pulp appropriate as we: prices up during the period by around 41% for softwood and build on leading positions in packaging and UFP, 50% for hardwood in US dollar terms.
particularly in high-growth emerging markets: maintain our position as a low-cost, high-quality producer Order inflows and sales volumes continued to improve and by selectively investing in production capacity in lower-cost price increases were achieved across all key paper grades, regions and exploiting benefits of upstream integration with benchmark UFP cut-size office paper prices increasing including forestry : and by over 11% from 31 December 2009 levels.
We announced focus on continuous productivity improvement and cost further price increases in the second half, supported by reduction, delivered through business excellence continued input cost pressures particularly for the nonprogrammes and rigorous asset management.
Leading market positions In the Corrugated business, benchmark kraftliner prices and Our focus continues to be on achieving the right product mix white top containerboard prices were up by 45% and 20% and geographic focus and thereby increasing the quality of respectively, a vast improvement compared to 2009.
In order to increase our exposure to the faster also benefited from the first full year of production from our growing emerging markets and reduce the risks associated new paper machine in Poland, particularly as this volume with some declining western European markets, we have replaced higher-cost capacity that we exited over the past completed a number of restructuring programmes.
Mondi is well positioned with good exposure to high-growth emerging markets such as eastern Europe, Russia and South For Bags & Coatings, prices are back to the levels they were Africa, with 73% of the Groups net operating assets and 55% at before the economic crisis.
However, in the western of revenue by destination based in these geographical areas.
European Bags business, ongoing supply rationalisation is needed.
The Coatings business continues to enjoy good As part of Mondis ongoing focus on leading market positions, demand growth across Europe.
the restructuring of the European Corrugated business was concluded during the first half of the year with the sale of the Currency movements had a mixed impact on the Groups results.
The stronger rand eroded export margins in South UK box plants and the recycled containerboard mill in Austria.
Africa, whilst European pricing benefited from the weaker The business can now focus on its core central and south eastern European markets, with leading market positions euro against the US dollar and improved supply-demand in the high-growth markets of Poland and Turkey.
Other emerging European currencies containerboard mills in Poland, Germany and Turkey provide strengthened against the euro placing some pressure on the Group with a competitive paper asset base serving the the export-focussed operations in Poland and the Czech Groups integrated converting network in these regions.
Underlying earnings per share was 47.0 euro cents, an increase Our leading position in high-growth emerging markets was of 151% on the prior year.
A final dividend of 16.5 euro cents has further enhanced by the successful completion of the last of been recommended, 136% more than the final 2009 dividend.
our two major capital projects, with the modernisation of the Syktyvkar mill in Russia, bringing an additional 50,000 tonnes Pleasingly the Group experienced a strong cash inflow of office paper and 63,000 tonnes of containerboard into this despite E160 million of capital expenditure on the major high-growth market.
The construction of the new 470,000 tonne expansion projects.
As a result net debt reduced from lightweight recycled containerboard paper machine at Swiecie in E1,517 million to E1,364 million.
Mondi Group 19 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 20 Chief executives review continued Our bias towards emerging markets is in line with our vision To further refine our asset base in the Bags & Coatings of focusing on low-cost, high-growth regions and on business, we have closed two of the plants we acquired from the Smurfit Kappa Group SKG in Spain and Italy, businesses offering leading market positions and operational and negotiations to close a further two plants in France synergies with existing businesses.
While our strategy clearly have been completed.
Encouragingly, very good progress focuses on emerging markets, Mondi enjoys a uniquely continues to be made in Coatings with a number of the strong market position in the Bags & Coatings segment in investments made in recent years now operating well.
The both eastern and western Europe, where Coatings continues Coatings business now enjoys good, and in many cases to enjoy very attractive growth rates.
We will therefore leading, market shares in its key markets and delivered continue to support our market position in Bags & Coatings a ROCE in the region of 14% during 2010. with our existing western European assets.
In our European corrugated business, our only remaining western European The sale of the Europapier paper merchant business to assets are in Austria and Germany which are integral to our the Heinzel Group, announced in early May 2010, was Polish corrugated operations.
In our UFP business, the only approved by the relevant competition authorities and remaining western European asset is the Neusiedler mill in concluded early in November.
In August, agreement Austria, which makes speciality products that achieve higher was reached with Hadera Paper Limited to sell down the selling prices to compensate for the higher costs.
The result is Groups 50.1% interest in Mondi Hadera Paper Limited for that while our Bags business and the western European UFP a consideration of E10 million, with the Group retaining a business are negatively impacted by the secular demand 25% minority interest and this transaction was concluded decline in these grades in western Europe, all of the Groups on 31 December 2010.
These disposals are in line with other businesses are expected to continue enjoying good Mondis stated objective of exiting non-core businesses.
levels of demand growth for the foreseeable future.
Focus on performance High-quality, low-cost asset base Cost optimisation is entrenched in Mondis culture and Over the past year, Mondi has continued to develop its managements relentless approach to cost savings did not lose momentum in 2010.
Our focus on cash flow optimisation high-quality, low-cost asset base and the E545 million resulted in working capital remaining tightly under control modernisation project at the Syktyvkar mill in Russia not only within the desired range of 10-12% of turnover.
Capital boosts our leading market position in this key region but the expenditure for the year amounted to E394 million, or 64% mill is now a well-invested highly cost-effective asset.
Following the decision to limit capital project incorporated the construction of a new wood yard, expenditure approvals outside of the two large projects to the rebuild of the softwood and hardwood pulp production 40% of depreciation during the recession experienced in lines and the white liquor plant, a new lime kiln and recovery 2008 and 2009, as indicated at the end of 2009, we will now boiler, a new turbo-generator and evaporation plant and the return to more normal levels of ongoing capital expenditure rebuild of the office paper and containerboard machines.
This estimated at around 60-80% of depreciation.
investment enables Mondi to increase product quality and output for UFP and containerboard.
Most importantly the mill Input costs remained high during the year, but the rapid is now fully self-sufficient in pulp, which is where the major increases in raw material costs experienced in the first half cost advantage lies.
of 2010 are showing signs of slowing.
Monthly average benchmark prices of pulp and recovered paper remained The European Corrugated business benefited from the wellrelatively unchanged in the second half with hardwood pulp operating new recycled containerboard machine at Swiecie, reflecting a slight reduction in recent months.
Wood prices restructuring and cost reduction initiatives and improved continued to increase during the latter part of the year, although product prices and volumes.
The new machine produced at a more moderate pace than in the first half of the year.
410,580 tonnes of paper in 2010 and should make good progress towards its capacity output of 470,000 tonnes Following the mothballing of a 120,000 tonne UFP machine at during 2011.
Merebank in South Africa and the completion of the Syktyvkar 20 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 21 modernisation, the Group is essentially balanced in respect of sustainability issues and drive excellence in our operations.
its pulp production and consumption.
I take great pride in being part of the team of 29,000 people throughout the world who fuel the success of the Mondi Overall, 2010 has been an extremely successful year from Group.
an operational perspective, with significant improvements in production efficiencies across the business and full year Outlook production records being set at a number of key Demand growth over the past 18 months has been very operations including Dyns, Frantschach, Richards Bay, encouraging, with volumes in most grades and geographic Ruzomber ok, St et, Swiecie and Syktyvkar.
regions back at satisfactory levels.
In 2011, further demand growth is expected, albeit at more modest rates.
Recent Our people industry capacity adjustments have also resulted in generally stronger fundamentals.
Taken together, this has led to a Safety and sustainability are critical to the Groups future and positive pricing environment.
The general economic recovery we deeply regret that two people lost their lives at our also brings cost pressures.
We are confident that the operations in the past year.
Considering the vastly improved Groups integrated low-cost position, focus on performance, safety performance we reported in 2009, this is of key and the contribution from the major investments made concern and we are therefore more committed than ever through the down cycle, position the business well for to our uncompromising focus on, and drive towards, a safe the future.
working environment for all our employees and contractors in 2011 and beyond.
None of Mondis achievements would be possible without our dedicated, committed workforce.
I regularly see examples of the talent and passion of our people as they work to David Hathorn anticipate and respond to our customers needs, focus on Chief executive officer Mondi Group 21 Directors report
