Chief Executives Report Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer 2010 was a good year for the Group, both in terms of financial performance and strategic development.
We are in a strong position to take advantage of any opportunities as they arise.
Review of the year In 2010 we made good progress against our strategic plan.
Key strategic priorities We benefited from the tough cost cutting measures we took in the first half of 2009 and the investments made in both IT and Best Products marketing during the second half of 2009.
As a result, the Groups revenue increased in 2010 by 9% from 136.9m Building strong relationships with to 148.9m and adjusted EBITDA increased by 14% from providers to ensure our customers get 36.0m to 41.0m.
great products tailored to their needs Excluding travel, we delivered robust revenue growth of 13% Providing our customers with despite the challenging economic conditions during the year.
the widest range of products Our motor insurance channel had a particularly strong year and the best deals despite the competitive market place delivering revenue growth of 18%.
Ensuring our customers can not get a better deal anywhere else Our customers experienced motor insurance policy inflation of more than 25% as motor insurers acted to recover increased costs of personal injury claims and reduced investment returns.
This trend appears to be continuing into 2011.
Our credit cards channel was the second strongest growth driver in 2010.
As the year progressed a growing range of credit cards were made available to customers.
2011 starts with more credit card products available than in January 2010.
Our home insurance and savings channels also had a good year with strong second half revenue growth after their relaunch.
Our travel business was not immune from the challenging economic conditions.
Throughout 2010, as the travel market continued to decline, we managed the business for margin with the consequence that revenue declined by 14% compared to 2009.
During the year, we reviewed the travel market, worked with our customers to understand their online travel needs, and rebuilt our package holidays channel ready for its relaunch in January 2011.
Our marketing team continued to drive efficiency through our 2010 campaigns, reducing our overall media investment from 45% of Group revenue in 2009 to 43% of Group revenue in 2010 whilst still delivering 9% revenue growth.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General This was achieved through flat online media spend but Our approach has been to engage both providers and increased offline investment focused on building our brand customers in the design process, ensuring product features awareness through TV and radio advertising.
Our haggle hero and price can be fully explored by customers, and product campaign, featuring Omid Djalili resonated with the British benefits can be promoted by providers.
Ultimately, customer public as he challenged us all to save super amounts of money feedback after launch is what counts, and on these rebuilt at moneysupermarket.
channels it has been extremely encouraging, with motor insurance, home insurance and credit cards all being voted As a sector, price comparison remained fiercely competitive, market leading.
especially in the motor insurance market.
However, we stuck to our strategy of only targeting visitors who we were confident Stocking our shop with the best products would use our services and be profitable to both ourselves and Our business is based on the success fee marketing model, our providers.
in which the majority of our providers only pay a fee for customers who purchase their product.
We constantly strive Review of the Groups strategic progress during 2010 to offer the most cost effective route to market for our providers In last years report, we outlined the Groups strategy which which requires a great understanding of their business models is also outlined in my report.
Although simple, it requires and needs.
complete focus on building a long term brand and relationships with our customers and providers.
The four elements of the Having invested in building a stronger, more experienced sales Groups strategy are to: team, I am pleased to be able to report that our relationships with our key providers are strong.
This helped to ensure that we Build the best shop received significant allocations of their marketing spend and Stock our shop with the best products were able to secure exclusive market leading deals for our Use data to make life easier for our customers customers across our business.
The result was that during Build an every day brand 2010 we increased the number of paying providers on the Groups websites.
This strategy has ensured that the Group has remained completely focused as one team on building a successful long Using data to make life easier for our customers term business.
During 2010 we have made significant progress We only want our customers to have to enter their details once against our strategy as outlined below.
so that it becomes ever easier for them to make the most of their money and to find the best and most relevant products.
Building the best shop In the second half of 2009 and the first half of 2010 we increased We spent 2010 increasing both our data analysis and customer our IT investment programme rebuilding our core channels.
The result of this New credit cards, savings, home insurance, motor insurance work is that we now look after data for more than 10 million and energy channels were launched during the year.
individuals and talk on a regular basis to many of them through our weekly MoreMoney communication and personalised marketing campaigns.
com Group PLC 11 Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives Report continued As an indication of the progress we have made, our revenue from our CRM campaigns increased by 74% in 2010 compared Key strategic priorities to 2009.
We will continue to build out our CRM capability in 2011 across our business.
Best Shop Building an every day brand Ensuring we deliver the best customer Our 2010 offline advertising campaign a great deal easier experience through our websites featuring Omid Djalili as our haggle hero proved to be very Ensuring we are open for business successful.
Our increased offline investment communicated our breadth and depth of products on both TV and radio.
whenever and wherever our customers want to visit us Online, we continued to optimise our marketing spend.
We exited or scaled back a number of portal partnership deals, Ensuring our customers have the tools which although delivering visitor numbers, were uneconomic they need to compare products based due to the lower propensity such visitors had to actually use on the features that are important our services and purchase products.
to them Our investment in paid search also continued to be optimised Data through our bid management systems resulting in a flat spend, whilst we experimented with Facebook advertising, particularly Protecting data and keeping it safe for financial products.
Enabling our customers to store their During 2010 we acquired Financial Services Net Limited FSN.
details to improve their experience FSN owns and operates a number of highly relevant financial when they visit us again services websites which provide a platform for the Group to broaden its brand offering to a wider range of customer segments in the Money and Insurance verticals.
2011 strategy I see no need for a change of strategy in 2011.
Our focus on building the best shop and stocking it with the best products has served us well over the past 18 months, we have a strong energised team and a growing brand.
Our continued investment programme means that we enter 2011 with rebuilt package holidays and stocks and shares ISA channels.
We have also completed the roll out of our innovative smart channels search tool to all credit card categories, allowing customers to check their likelihood of acceptance before applying for a card a great service to customers and providers alike.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General 2011 started with some entertaining new adverts with John Prescott promoting our motor insurance business, and Key strategic priorities Jedward relaunching travelsupermarket.
com after two years off air.
This year we are proud to be the new sponsors of ITVs Brand Britains Got Talent which gives us a unique and exciting opportunity to broaden our brand reach across the UK in a way Focusing on innovative and effective that standard advertising can not.
This is a key component of methods of communication to build our brand strategy for this year.
long term relationships with our customers We will continue to build stronger and deeper relationships with our providers ensuring we deliver a valuable and cost effective Striving to retain our customers year service to them.
after year through the provision of excellent customer service Summary 2010 was a good year for the Group, both in terms of financial Investing in effective and targeted performance and strategic development.
marketing, advertising and PR Our strong market positions, the clear strategic focus of the Ensuring our customers visit us Group, the cash generative nature of our business and our first when they need help with their diversified business model all provide a solid platform for the household bills Group to grow.
Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 13 Annual Report 2010
