Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers review Group results I am pleased to report that Morgan Crucible made encouraging progress in its performance in 2010.
The Groups well-established strategy of focusing on the right growth markets and the right growth countries generated good year-on-year improvement in both revenue and profits.
Group revenue increased by 7.9% relative to 2009 with notably good growth from our businesses in developing world economies such as China, India and Brazil.
This top-line growth allied to tight operational cost management meant that our year-on-year profit growth was strong, with Group profit before taxation up a very healthy 115.6% compared to 2009.
Mark Robertshaw Divisional highlights Chief Executive Officer Our focus has remained on the actions we ourselves can take to improve the quality and performance of our business rather than relying on the vagaries of the Looking to the future, I am economic cycle.
To this end, in July of 2010 I announced the streamlining and confident that Morgan Crucible simplification of the Groups organisational structure by rationalising the existing is well placed in 2011 and beyond business units into two Divisions.
The two new Divisions are Morgan Ceramics, to deliver further improvements comprising the Technical Ceramics and Thermal Ceramics Businesses, and Morgan to our performance.
Engineered Materials, comprising the Morgan AM&T, including NP Aerospace, and MMS Businesses.
My expectation is that the combined Businesses will deliver faster growth at higher margins through their strengthened global presence, deeper and broader end-market coverage and combined management talent.
Over and above the accelerated growth potential, the opportunity to leverage common infrastructures will provide critical mass and operational cost efficiencies.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements I am pleased to report that the programme In the intervening period, the Groups equity Looking forward to bring the Divisions together in the new stake in NP Aerospace has been increased Morgan Crucible traded resiliently through structure is progressing well and I am to 70% with the remaining 30% to be the worst downturn in global industrial confident that the Group is well on track acquired in annual 10% instalments in 2011, production for many decades.
Profits and to deliver its targeted operating cost 2012 and 2013. profit margins held up far better than in benefits of at least 5 million in 2011. previous, less severe downturns: cash The Morgan AM&T Business formerly Furthermore, opportunities continue to generation was excellent and banking known as the Carbon Division saw a good be identified to deliver additional revenue, covenant ratios were maintained even pick-up in performance in 2010 with all particularly for the Technical Ceramics in the worst of the market environment.
regions showing year-on-year profit Business in the emerging market economies.
As industrial demand has begun to recover improvements.
Of particular note was the from its trough, Morgan Crucible enters Both the Morgan Ceramics and Morgan acquisition of the Changsha Hairong New 2011 in a position of robust health.
Trading Engineered Materials Divisions delivered Materials Co. Ltd. at the end of the year performance improved progressively during improved operating profits and operating for 64 million RMB 6.2 million.
This the course of 2010, with revenue, profits margins in 2010 compared to 2009. business, which has been renamed Morgan and margins higher in the second half Morgan Ceramics revenue was up 16.9% AM&T Hairong Co. Ltd. is a recognised of the year than the first.
and divisional EBITA was up 32.8% technical leader in the production of versus 2009, reflecting a strong year of graphite materials for anodes used in lithium Furthermore, we have a number of performance across a broad spread of ion batteries for portable electronic devices initiatives in place that can continue to end-markets and geographies.
Highlights and electric vehicles which we believe to improve the performance of the Group included a strong increase in revenue have significant and exciting growth going forward.
These include fully capturing of our North American business driven by potential.
Revenue for the business is the opportunities for growth in the aerospace-related demand from our large forecast to be in excess of 52 million RMB emerging market economies and key facility in Hayward, California, coupled 5 million in 2011 at mid-teen operating end-sectors, such as renewable energy, with a broad-based pick-up across profit margins.
The Changsha Hairong delivering the cost and revenue synergies a number of our other US operations.
transaction is a sign of Morgan Crucibles of the Divisional streamlining and continuing willingness and ability to continue to invest to improve the efficiencies of our Western In the Thermal Ceramics Business we saw in profitable growth opportunities in world operations.
growing demand from our developing advanced materials both organically and world businesses in China, India, South Looking to the future, I am confident that through selected bolt-on acquisitions.
America and the Middle East, with strong Morgan Crucible is well placed in 2011 demand in particular from petrochemical It is also worth noting the very strong and beyond to deliver further improvements end-markets.
performance of the MMS Business in 2010, to our performance.
which is now part of the newly created In the Morgan Engineered Materials Mark Robertshaw Morgan Engineered Materials Division.
Division, revenue was down slightly Chief Executive Officer Revenue was up 33.9% and Divisional year-on-year following 2009s exceptional EBITA was up 600% reflecting the excellent level of defence market sales from our work that has been done by the MMS NP Aerospace business in support of the management team in repositioning the UK Ministry of Defences Urgent Operational Business and its manufacturing operations Requirements UOR for UK forces in towards higher growth, lower cost markets Afghanistan.
Despite the reduction of UOR such as China and India.
business in 2010, NP Aerospace revenue was a highly creditable 120.9 million which compares favourably to annual revenue of 51.7 million in 2007 when Morgan Crucible first acquired an initial 49% equity stake in the business.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33
