Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers strategic review Continuing our strategy The Groups well-established strategy of focusing on the right growth markets and the right growth countries supported by continued effective cost management has generated good year-on-year improvement in both Mark Robertshaw revenue and profit.
Chief Executive Officer Our goal Our aim Our goal is to continue Our aim is to create to be one of the worlds long-term sustainable very best advanced shareholder value materials companies Strategic priorities Focus on higher Be high value-added to Have a culture of growth, higher margin, our customers operational excellence non-economically and cost efficiency cyclical markets Be number one Find, keep and or number two in develop the right our chosen market people segments 28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Investing for growth Our growth strategy is predicated on R ight growth markets a three-pronged approach built around We take a medium-to long-term view to identify those identifying and actively targeting the end-markets with secular growth trends that should right growth markets, the right growth drive consistent increases in demand at levels above customers and the right growth global GDP.
For Morgan Crucible these targeted secular geographies.
Running throughout all this growth markets include aerospace, healthcare and is a single-minded focus on innovative, renewable energy.
differentiated products with a high value-added element.
R ight growth customers Our mindset is to be the development partner of choice for our customers and to seek to work with the very best and most successful companies in our target sectors.
R ight growth geographies Our strategy is explicitly focused on leveraging the significant growth opportunities in the most dynamic economies of the world such as China, India, South America and the Middle East as they rapidly develop their own capabilities and domestic markets.
Investing for efficiency In parallel to striving to deliver annual Operational excellence programmes implemented growth levels well in advance of global across all our sites to drive improved productivity GDP, we are equally focused on looking and quality.
to drive ongoing operational efficiencies throughout the Group.
The three main The increased use of low-cost manufacturing sources of this are: operations in countries such as Mexico, Hungary and China.
Streamlined organisational structures with clear accountabilities.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29
