Chief Executives Review We have emerged from a challenging year with record results for both revenue and earnings, strong cash generation and a healthy balance sheet which has enabled the board to recommend a substantial increase in the dividend for the year.
For the 52 weeks to 27 February 2010 total revenue was 690.0m, up by 4.2% from the previous year and by 3.3% on a like-for-like basis after adjusting for our new international trial in Germany and the acquisition of High & Mighty in September 2009. m % vs. Financial Highlights 2009 10 2008 9 Revenue 690.0 4.2 Operating Profit 97.6 2.2 Adjusted Pre-Tax Profit 93.1 12.6 Profit Before Tax 85.7 7.2 Total Dividend Per Share 10.79p 17.4 Adjusted Earnings Per Share 24.77p 12.8 Net Borrowings 170.1 22.1 Net Assets 319.0 12.7 Excluding fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
See Note 11 Revenue We have continued to focus on our core strengths of targeting niche customer groups and delivering relevant products with an emphasis on the correct size and fit, which is reflected in the growth across almost all of the groups core product and customer categories.
Both our established and newer brands have generated revenue growth and there has been a further increase in online sales as a result of the continued focus and investment in e-commerce.
In addition we have developed our international business with the successful launch of our Simply Be website and catalogue in Germany.
In a competitive retail market customer loyalty is more precious than ever and so I am delighted we have achieved record levels of customer satisfaction through ongoing improvements to our service offer.
Group revenue up 4.2% to Adjusted earnings per share Total dividend up 17.4% to up 12.8% to 690.0m 24.77p 10.79p Customer Groups marketing directly to the male customer Category Revenue m % Growth himself rather than his female partner.
We are recruiting customers to more than Ladieswear 356 1 20 of the brands in our portfolio, each of Footwear 73 9 In September 2009 we acquired the brand which has its own distinct target customer Menswear 67 17 profile and product offer.
Our brands are and certain assets of High & Mighty, an Home & Leisure 194 4 upmarket menswear retailer in the big grouped into three age ranges: Total 690 4 and tall niche, from the administrator for Younger targeting customers a consideration of 1.6m, and we are aged 30-45 years Ladies underwear and outerwear account delighted with the progress so far.
The for 52% of our total sales.
We offer an brand recognition is extremely high and we Midlife targeting customers extensive range of sizes, which go up to will develop the website and catalogues aged 45-65 years a size 38 with a large proportion available as complementary to the 14-strong store Older targeting customers in multiple length options.
Over half of our portfolio.
ladieswear sales are in sizes 20 and above, sizes which are hard to find on the high Older Younger street.
We have continued to see growth The older customer group saw a 5% In line with our strategy, the younger in our younger titles and hence remain decrease in sales to 53m in line with the customer group has yet again experienced focused on providing a fashionable performance of the ladieswear market in the fastest growth, with sales up 8% to offer with the availability of designer the UK.
During the year we launched Julipa 216m.
Simply Be has delivered another and branded ranges.
to provide a more substantial offering for good performance, and it remains our the over 65 age group, comprised of all the largest title within this category, delivering As a result, we have worked with designers suitable product lines which were already fashionable clothing up to size 32 to such as Caryn Franklin, Anna Sholtz and featured in other group catalogues.
Simply Bes sales Jeffrey Rogers, as well as celebrities such results have been encouraging so far, and include 2.4m of revenues from our as Mica Paris to promote our products.
it will be further developed in 2010.
German language catalogue and website.
We continue to work with fashion celebrity Operationally the launch in Germany Gok Wan, who designs a range of Customer Database has gone extremely smoothly, and the shapewear exclusively for our Simply The number of our established customers product offer has been welcomed by the Yours lingerie brand, maintaining our who ordered during the year increased by customers there.
Our younger menswear focus on providing fashionable lingerie 2% and the spend per customer also rose title, Jacamo, one of our newer brands, has for women in an extensive range of sizes.
Part of our conservative stance in doubled its sales in the year, over 70% of 2009 was to hold the level of recruitment them transacted online.
Jacamos results Menswear is a strategic area of focus expenditure at the same level as in the have been driven by an expanded range which has grown rapidly with sales up previous year, as new customers have a of branded clothing and footwear, with the 17% to 67m.
This has been driven by higher credit risk.
The change to the mix of larger sizes up to 66 chest and 64 waist the success of our Jacamo brand and recruitment between the different brands usually being supplied exclusively to us.
the expansion of our menswear offer has resulted in slightly lower sales per new in Premier Man.
Midlife success of both these menswear brands The midlife group of customers had has been the ability to persuade more Product Categories sales of 421m that grew by 4% during branded suppliers to produce garments One of the key tenets of our business is the year.
Our established brands, such as in larger sizes, up to 66 chest and 64 the provision of an extensive range of J D Williams, Ambrose Wilson, Fifty Plus waist, exclusively for our customers.
The products, with a high number of options and Oxendales, continued to provide the acquisition of High & Mighty adds to our around size, colour, length and fit.
By majority of sales in this category, although strength in this area with its upmarket storing over 150,000 options in just two the strongest growth came from another brands such as Ralph Lauren Polo, Animal distribution centres we are able to service one of our newer brands, Marisota.
Its and Paul & Shark as well as a range of demand for products even where the offer of contemporary fashion designed to casual and formal wear.
Menswear now rate of sale is low.
We have significantly fit real women has proved to be popular accounts for 10% of our total sales, but expanded the number of product lines to and over the last year its sales have it is still under-represented relative to our customers exclusively on the internet, increased by 83%.
Our menswear brand womenswear revenues and therefore which is the main reason for a 50% Premier Man achieved a 9% increase there is still scope for significant growth increase in total compared with last year.
in sales, as we switched the focus of in the future.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 Chief Executives Review PUSHING OUR BRANDS FORWARD 8 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 When it comes to our newer brands, the star performers have been Marisota and Jacamo expanding our customer base by targeting the woman in her 50s who wants solutions to her clothing and footwear problems and the men in their 30s who want branded clothing in bigger sizes.
Product innovations such as the UKs largest strapless bra have contributed to their strong performance.
Launched in early 2009, Julipa, our 65 flagship, has also attracted new customers with its new look and nine-shops-in-one catalogue.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 Chief Executives Review FIT.
Weve boosted our longstanding expertise in fit.
The new magi-fit fashion and miraclesuit swimwear ranges have been popular and weve introduced even more sizes, including womens shoes up to a 10 and our legroom boots in 4 calf widths.
Weve also introduced personal style advice via fashion stylists Carol Spencer and Joy Wilson, shape guides and outfit recommendations plus an online personalised guide for customers.
10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Menswear sales up Younger customer sales up Sales from mid-life brands up 4% to 17% 8% 421m We remain the market leader for wider retailers in the UK overall and number one selectively restricting credit availability, for ladies clothing in size 16 and above and particularly for high value items ordered by fitting footwear.
We also provide a multi-fit range for customers with oddshaped feet for ladies underwear sold over the internet.
The consequence of these actions has been to reduce and offer ladies boots with various calf and ankle fittings, emphasising our devotion The internet is becoming increasingly sales growth but it has also reduced the popular with customers as they become bad debt charge since implementation, to satisfying our customers whatever their shape or size.
This year footwear sales more confident in shopping online and resulting in an improving trend with a lower with a strong pipeline of initiatives and bad debt rate in the second half than the increased by 9% with the fastest growth coming from the range developed for systems development, we are well placed first half.
This trend has continued into the to continue to hold our position as a current year.
We have also produced some of our best selling styles market leader.
Average order values online are over 20% higher than for orders placed Overheads in standard width fittings recognising that some of our ladieswear customers will not through other channels, which is due to Stringent cost control, process the wider selection of product available improvements and the greater penetration necessarily require wider fitting footwear.
on our websites and the ease with which of online sales have restricted the customers can search and browse our increase in our distribution, selling Home and leisure sales have grown by 4%, accounting for 28% of total sales.
and administrative costs to just 2.9%.
Distribution costs benefited from a 3% Our Christmas Gifts catalogues were extremely successful and led to strong Online sales now account for 39% of increase in the average item value, due total sales compared with 34% the to the mix of sales, and the key ratio of growth in the sales of gifts and toys, ranges which had been expanded in previous year.
The internet is at the marketing costs to revenue improved centre of all our business development.
Sales of electrical products grew by 10% despite We are encouraging more of our existing customers to transact online, the Customer Service the tougher criteria we applied to our credit accounts to reduce the risk of newer brands all have over 50% We have put an even stronger emphasis online participation and the number on great customer service this year to bad debts on higher value products.
of product lines exclusive to the ensure our customers have no reasons internet has grown dramatically.
to defect to our competitors, especially We have worked with selected suppliers to enable them to upload products as there has been an increased level Gross Margin and Credit of discounting and promotions in retail directly onto our websites, enabling far more extensive ranges online than had The groups gross margin is a complex generally.
Our twice yearly survey combination of different product and demonstrated our success in this aim with previously been possible with products such as DVDs, computer games, customer segments, including the financial the record level of satisfaction achieved plants and rugs as part of an ongoing income and bad debts arising from the since the survey began in 1996.
The overall rate of gross been delivered by improvements in the margin declined by 0.7%, with a fall of supply chain, faster delivery of parcels, An important part of our strategy is to 1.6% in the first half offset by a 0.1% enhanced customer service as well as encourage our customers to shop across improvement in the second half.
favourable reviews for product quality our various product ranges.
A key measure and the choice and visual appeal of the of this is the proportion of customers who The rate of gross margin on product sales catalogues and websites.
purchase items during the year from each has been ahead of the prior year, partly of the ladies clothing, underwear and due to a lower level of dormant stock Balance Sheet footwear ranges.
These customers not to be cleared.
The policy to reduce our The group has ended the year with a only spend more but also show a higher stock levels during the recession has 12.7% increase in net assets to 319.0m level of repeat purchasing.
We are now been vindicated, and at the year end our and net borrowings which are down expanding this concept to work across all inventories were 10.6% lower than the 48.2m to 170.1m, reducing gearing from of our ranges through active cross-selling previous year at 62.4m.
The principal reasons for the programmes.
cash inflow are the significant reductions We have implemented a number of in working capital arising from only a small E-commerce changes to our credit policy during the increase in trade receivables compared With online sales of 272m last year up year, raising the threshold for new account with the prior year and lower stock levels by 21%, we remain one of the top online applications, changing payment terms and and capital expenditure.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 Chief Executives Review A BASkETFUl OF SAlES Online sales have grown strongly again this year and now account for 39% of sales.
Weve continued to innovate, with internet exclusives, online catwalks and personalised styling on our websites, as well as making the sites easier to use by improved contact management, registration, checkout and customer feedback.
The exploitation of social media and active cross-selling promotions have also enhanced this growth.
12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 Chief Executives Review Online sales up 21% to Ladieswear sales up 1% to Footwear sales up 272m 356m 9% Outlook and Current Trading Arlene Phillips, who has designed a range The current year will be no less challenging for Marisota which will also be syndicated The outlook for the UK economy but if we maintain the focus on our over the next year remains uncertain, to other midlife brands.
niche customers and products, develop whatever the outcome of the general our online activities and progress our election, as increased taxation and E-commerce is at the heart of our international trials I am sure we will enjoy revenue growth in the next few years, reduced public expenditure are bound to another good year.
In addition and we have major projects in progress to improve content management, inflationary pressure will impact input prices due to the weakness of sterling and registration, checkout and customer feedback.
In addition there is a rolling high commodity costs.
N Brown Group, however, is well placed to continue its program of tactical trading initiatives from the exploitation of social media to active growth with our flexible business model Alan White allowing us to adapt quickly to changing cross-selling promotions.
In addition, our strategy of focusing on niche customer and This year will also see further expansion product groups results in strong customer in our international offering.
Following loyalty and our increasing strength within on from our trials in Germany, we will be e-commerce gives us a strong base with launching Simply Be in the USA in late which to enter the year ahead.
summer 2010 with a fully transactional website and catalogue offer.
The plus We have already had a positive start to size market in the USA is estimated to be the year, with sales for the 8 weeks to 24 worth $35bn and we believe a gap exists April 2010 up by 4.1% in total, and 3.1% on for a younger, fashion focused offer.
Online sales continue will service the orders from our UK base their strong growth and now account for which significantly reduces the cost of the over 40% of all sales.
We continue to see development Having nursed the High & Mighty business opportunities in our core business focusing through the immediate post-administration on maximising our existing customer phase we are now looking to develop it relationships as well as launching new positively.
In 2010 we will look to open brands.
These include Williams and Brown, up to three new stores and relocate targeted at the classic, but contemporary, or refurbish at least another six of the fifty year old man, and Thats My Style a fourteen stores we acquired.
The product more contemporary brand name which synergies within our total menswear range we believe will be attractive to 60-year are being selectively exploited and we old women who want clothing solutions have started to produce catalogues which but who have not traditionally been home can be actioned through the stores, call shopping customers.
Early signs for these centre or High & Mighty website, with the new brands are positive.
We will continue latter migrating to our internet platform this to invest across our brand portfolio and summer.
expect to see continued high growth from Marisota and Jacamo in particular.
The performance of the group last year is a result of the expertise, creativity and Similarly we are using more well known endeavour of everyone who works at brands and celebrities to expand our N Brown Group, and on behalf of the product offer at the higher price points.
In directors I cannot praise them enough 2010 we will be working with Joe Calzaghe, for their efforts in guiding the business who will endorse the Jacamo range, and through a difficult external environment.
14 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 In September 2009 we acquired the retail chain, High & Mighty, for 1.6m taking 14 stores and the website.
It offers significant growth potential and the opportunity to experiment with multi-channel retailing with high street stores and also exposure to the big and tall upmarket menswear market.
We plan to triple sales and add stores in key cities.
HIGHER STREET N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 Chief Executives Review TAkING OFF OVERSEAS The launch of Simply Be into Germany marked our next step into international markets, building on our long-established business in Ireland.
Exporting an already successful range has efficiently gained us a foothold in a new territory and paved the way for our American launch later this year, looking for a share of the $35 billion plus size market.
16 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 This year weve further exploited celebrity connections.
Mica Paris with her latest trends fashion range, Joe Calzaghe endorsing the Jacamo brand and Gok Wan designing a lingerie range in partnership with us have all been a huge success.
In addition, unique partnerships with well-known labels, such as Gossard, Helly Hansen and Sergio Tacchini, who supply larger sizes exclusively to us and enhance our range.
STAR QUAlITY N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17
