04 04 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Chief Executive Officers review Tim Steiner Chief Executive Officer The past year has been a year of significant progress for Ocado.
The launch of the Ocado range touches on another key area where In the core operations we delivered a strong set of results for we have improved this year, pricing.
We have continued to invest in 2010.
Our strategy of continuously improving our market leading our price positioning over the year through both range and absolute customer offer continued to drive sales growth which has delivered pricing.
Due to our increasing scale we managed to maintain through to the bottom line.
This was a tremendous achievement by margin while making these investments in price.
We continued our all the members of the Ocado team.
commitment to match the standard prices of all identical items of the UKs largest supermarket group.
As we have expanded our range, Delivering gross sales growth of 29% to 551.1 million against the we have increased the number of Tesco Price Match items to c. 7,200. backdrop of a weak UK economy is a strong result.
As the business We also launched Switch and Save which allows our customers to grows and starts to achieve scale we are seeing the benefits of move to lower priced products with improved value as they check considerable operational leverage.
The business achieved numerous out.
This year we have run more promotions than ever before, financial milestones in the year including reporting an adjusted EBIT increasing the value of our service to our customers.
The investments profit for the second half of the year and being profitable at the EBT made in pricing over recent years have been recognised by the level for the final quarter 16 trading weeks.
consumer and have led to a broadening of our customer base from a demographic perspective.
The UK online grocery market is still at an early stage of development.
We believe the most effective way Ocado can increase We also made substantial improvements this year to our customer adoption is to continue improving our customer offering.
As in interfaces with the aim of providing the customer with the best previous years, we have worked hard to improve this on many levels, possible experience in online grocery shopping regardless of how including working on range, price, availability, accuracy, ease of use as they want to interact with Ocado, whether on the website, mobile well as other service initiatives.
This year we also upgraded the website and iPhone app and launched apps on the iPad and Android mobile devices with This year we expanded our range to 21.5k SKUs from 20.5k at the mobile checkouts reaching 12% since the New Year.
end of FY09, all of which are available to customers in the whole of our delivery geography.
To put this in context, we have now In November we launched the new version of the Ocado website.
taken our range from being among the smallest offered in any UK This has been a major operation involving teams across the business supermarket three years ago to one of the largest ranges today.
As from trading through to creative to IT.
We have had a positive we expand the capacity of the CFC further we expect to be able to reaction from our customers and its introduction has driven an offer the largest grocery range of any major UK supermarket.
increased average spend per order.
Beyond the improved customer interface the new website provides a new back end platform which A particularly important addition to our range this year has been the will allow us to continue to innovate over the coming years.
launch of the Ocado own-label range, which has been introduced to complement the Waitrose own-label products.
It offers the Ocado Ocado received numerous industry awards for its customer offer, customer a range that matches closely in price and quality the core including World Etailer of the Year 2010 at the Oracle World retail own-label ranges of the major UK supermarkets.
However, we are not resting on our laurels and there are great achievement to build the team and the supplier relationships many customer offer developments planned for the coming year.
necessary to source and develop the Ocado own-label range.
While it is still early days we have seen strong take-up with 64% of all baskets containing an Ocado product in the final four week period of the year.
The Ocado own-label range now has over 250 products and we expect this to grow substantially in the coming years.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement SKU COUNT CHECKOUTS ON MOBILE DEvICES BY MONTH 15% 10% 5% 0% 08 09 10 Jan 2010 Jul 2010 Jan 2011 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 16k 20.5k 21.5k % Checkouts Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 05 05 This was a landmark year for Ocado with gross sales up 29% for the year, we have delivered on the targets set out at the flotation.
We have continued our focus on improving the customer offer, which has led to a record number of customers and sales with the achievement of profitability in the final quarter.
Ocados growth continues to outpace the market.
Tim Steiner, Chief Executive Officer The customer offer improvements have led to both a significant The increasing scale combined with upgrades to the routing software increase in new customers using the service and an increase in spend and vans has led to drops per van per week DPv wk increasing per customer.
Average orders per week increased from 70,873 in by 10% to 133.
In the most productive week of the year we achieved FY09 to 92,916 in FY10, and exceeded 100,000 for the first time in 159 DPv wk compared to our long-term target of 175 DPv wk.
As expected, average order Outside the core operations, this has been a significant year for the size showed a slight decrease to 114.06 for the year.
Three major events occurred that are the building blocks changing customer behaviour with customers continuing to increase for the long-term success of the business.
In May, we signed a new their frequency of shop but with a slight decline in order size.
We are ten year agreement with Waitrose.
We were delighted to sign this pleased to note that we have seen the rate of decline slow over the agreement which is our fifth and longest contract with Waitrose.
ensures that we will continue our relationship, which is now in its Significant effort was also spent over the year on the behind the eleventh year.
In July, Ocado Group plc the Company listed on scenes projects which enable us to deliver capacity growth and the London Stock Exchange.
This has many benefits for the Company customer offer improvements.
These occurred in all areas of the and its shareholders but the primary benefit was to raise significant business affecting processes, software and hardware.
These will be used to fund the capital projects required to in the CFC one of the major projects was the addition of three new serve the demand we expect to see in the online grocery market.
This enabled the termination of the relatively inefficient October, we reached agreement to purchase the site for a second process of trolley picking for chilled goods.
On the software side over CFC CFC2 : this is the most substantial capital project in the plan 1,500 individual changes were made to our CFC systems.
to more than triple the capacity of the business from 2009 to 2013.
As we explained at the time of the IPO, increasing the scale of Current trading and outlook the business at this rate presents operational challenges.
The CFC As we announced on 4 March 2011 our growth has continued into capacity grew in line with expectations with a slight impact on the new financial year seeing gross sales increase by 25% in Q1.
We reintroduced a number of processes, such as We are focused on positioning ourselves to take advantage of the trolley picking, to help cope with increased demand.
This impacted significant latent demand for online grocery in the UK.
We continue CFC efficiency with units per hour UPH decreasing by 2.2% to to improve the customer offer, while at the same time build capacity 121 UPH.
As our planned capital spend is invested in CFC1 over to serve the increasing demand.
the coming years, we expect productivity to rise substantially and the long-term target of 180 UPH remains in place.
At 99% for the year, the accuracy of our offer remained at a level we believe is significantly higher than our competitors.
This is slightly down on last year and we expect the capital projects planned for the CFC will improve this.
On the delivery side of the business the progress towards the longterm target is more linear and we have seen significant improvement this year.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement CFC PrODUCTIvITY UNITS PEr HOUr DELIvErY PrODUCTIvITY DrOPS PEr vAN PEr WEEK 08 09 10 08 09 10 Long-term target Long-term target 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 114 124 121 180 106 121 133 175 Our Performance
