Chief Executive Officers Review 2010 was an important year for Pace: we built out our strategy and strengthened our core business while opening up new market and technology opportunities that will enable sustainable future growth.
We delivered strong earnings and revenue growth and made a series of strategic acquisitions that are already enhancing our earnings and market position.
Key Highlights of the Year Pace has made excellent progress this year as we continued to deliver on our core leadership position by becoming the biggest global supplier of digital set-top box technology, a very significant achievement and testament to the focus and hard work of our global teams.
But this year has also seen us create new opportunities for Pace, as we welcomed three new companies into the Group that have already made a significant contribution to our business and market leadership.
Through the acquisition of 2Wire and Bewan we now have a highly competitive product capability and deep knowledge of the telecoms space, and with Latens we have expanded our software capabilities.
All three of these acquisitions bring us access to new customers, markets and technologies that will provide additional growth opportunities for Pace in the years to come.
During the year we grew underlying earnings by 35.6%, and increased our overall revenues by 17.4%.
Our revenues, before taking into account our acquisitions, were up 9.7%, ahead of expectations, and we increased our overall return on sales to 7.8%.
This is clearly a strong result, particularly in the light of industry-wide supply chain challenges, and reflects the operating leverage and scale of our business model.
We have achieved these results through careful focus on our markets and their development: moving into 2011 and beyond we will focus on key areas to ensure that we deliver on sustained growth in the future.
05 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
indd 7 10 03 2011 16:35 Positioning for Growth We believe OTT will co-exist with payTV Our business is focused on serving the evolving needs and become part of new integrated of payTV and telecoms operators that deliver managed subscription services into consumer homes.
Today we services that our operator customers have over 160 customers that span emerging through are creating for their subscribers.
Operators shape the consumers in-home entertainment and communications experience with digital, HD, hybrid, 3D, home networking and broadband technologies.
With our global reach and expertise we have built a unique vantage point on how these markets are evolving and the opportunities they present.
Our markets are changing and there is no one absolute trend.
They are also highly competitive as operators work to attract and retain consumer subscriptions.
There is always competition, but I believe we have the necessary scale and capabilities to develop on our success with the leading global operators.
A good example is the pressure operators are under to provide competitive responses to the threat from overthe-top internet TV services.
Some believe consumers may switch from payTV subscriptions to over-the-top TV.
We believe over-the-top will co-exist with payTV and in some cases become part of the new integrated services that our operator customers are creating.
With our additional offerings in software, support and services, we are already working with operators as they provide new and innovative responses to this competitive threat and are well positioned as they evolve their businesses in this environment.
Widening Out In our established markets the set-top box and our new gateway products are at the centre of the home entertainment and communications universe and will continue on a growth trajectory.
Our platforms enable an operators service in the home and are critical to their success.
In 2010, through acquisition and organic innovation, Pace added a range of important assets: from residential gateways to software, to support services that manage the complexity and cost involved in delivering payTV and broadband.
Further development of these Pace plc Annual Report | 06 2010 R&A Front.
indd 8 10 03 2011 16:35 Chief Executive Officers Review continued assets is enabling Pace to create innovative platforms North American Market for operators in its established, emerging and advanced The North American market is a powerful example of how markets.
In doing this, Pace is evolving a proposition that we are evolving the Pace proposition.
We have strong embraces in-home devices that enable content OTT and relationships with the three leading operators in this market: linear and next generation operator services while reducing Comcast cable, DIRECTV satellite and AT&T telecoms cost of deployment and significantly improving customer and we are the only company supplying all three.
We support and the user experience.
provide a wide range of products for these customers, from basic adaptors to set-top boxes and gateways to In this context our opportunity is widening out in two software, support and customer care centres that deliver important areas.
In our more advanced markets home and manage multiple services into the home.
This is only networking and digital home convergence have been hot just part of our Americas picture as we work with over 90 topics for some time.
In the last year these developments cable operators and have continued to grow our business have become a reality for a number of our US customers across Latin America.
with the launch of our first whole home product.
In other markets, in particular Western Europe, an increasing number The 2Wire acquisition has accelerated our capability in of operators are launching hybrid services.
The Canal telecoms markets, in particular the US.
With the addition Le Cube is a leader in this space, offering subscribers a of AT&T as a key customer we now have significant compelling and easy to access combination of broadcast home networking knowledge through our work on their and on-demand broadband content.
U-Verse is a subscription service that allows consumers to access high quality content through But this is just the beginning of in-home service both wired and wireless technologies, not just via their convergence.
We are now working with operators who want television and phone, but also their PCs, laptops, mobiles to deliver a cohesive set of managed digital services, from and tablets.
video and broadband to voice over IP and new applications such as telemedicine and home security, into a home We also manage customer care centres for a range of network of multiple interconnected devices.
Our technology telecoms customers in North America, including Bell will also enable mobile and portable devices to become part Canada.
Our customer care centres support consumers of the service providers in-home network.
In addition to as they install and manage the increasingly complex set of creating platforms that can manage the complexity of these connected devices that now exist in their homes.
services within the home, we now have infrastructure and Intelligent software in our gateway devices can provide a software assets to help manage the operators subscriber complete view of the subscribers digital home and use support needs.
For example the customer care centres and real-time diagnostics to identify and solve issues.
This is consulting services acquired with the 2Wire business improve enabling operators to resolve problems by phone that customer support and have reduced some operators inpreviously would have entailed an expensive home visit and house call centre costs by millions of dollars per year.
is just part of an increasingly sophisticated set of support services we now have available and a capability we will In many of our emerging markets profound change is also offer beyond the telecoms sector.
The North American taking place as operators move from analogue to digital market will set the trend for advanced developments or launch their first high definition HD services.
In South elsewhere in the world.
America, a very successful market for Pace over the last year, operators are not yet thinking about home networking, Market Responsiveness but are just launching HD and HD PVR.
We continue to evaluate opportunities across emerging markets such as Our business structure and model is an important strength India where we recently commenced shipments to Tata Sky.
as we help make all of this happen for our customers.
Again, utilising our expanded assets, we are looking at how We have a decentralised operating structure, so we can we can create complete packaged solutions, including the develop close customer relationships across multiple and Latens software-based conditional access, to enable new highly distinctive geographic markets.
This approach, service launches in emerging markets with tier two and tier balanced with the benefits of our global supply chain scale three operators.
enables us to manage individual customer needs and 07 | Pace plc Annual Report 2010 R&A Front.
We have built teams across the world We have a decentralised operating specialising in the specific needs of their local markets: from structure, so we can develop close teams in the US with skills in software and services to our team in India that has built a capability in complete end-to customer relationships across end product development.
multiple and highly distinctive Paces customer commitment encompasses our industry geographic markets.
leading work to minimise the environmental footprint of our products and operations.
This year we took important steps forwards to reduce the carbon intensity of our activities, and, for example, we reduced average annual electrical energy consumption across new set-top box products by 12.9%.
We also reduced our CO emissions per set-top box to 56.02 2 kg CO, down from 64.31 kg in 2009, thanks to our Design 2 for Environment DFE initiative.
We have continued to evolve our structure in 2010 as we integrated our acquisitions while ensuring we stay true to our organisational philosophy of the customer at the heart of the business.
In 2010 this led us to create a new business unit known as Enterprise in which the team addresses new technologies, business and market opportunities.
Our ability to respond and develop with our market will enable us to deliver future growth.
In Summary In 2010 our market continued to grow and Pace won greater market share.
We are a fully diversified business, in terms of our geographic reach and technology and service capability.
Our organic revenues grew 10%, we added profitable acquisitions and put the Company into a stronger position for the next phase of market evolution as operators contemplate the technology innovations they need to remain competitive.
I would like to thank the entire Group workforce for these outstanding achievements in 2010.
Looking ahead into 2011 Pace has a rich group of customers and technologies that will enable the business to grow, with over 20 per cent of revenues coming from our new gateway, software and services businesses.
I look forward to another strong year of growth for our business.
Neil Gaydon Chief Executive Officer 8 March 2011 Pace plc Annual Report | 08 2010 R&A Front.
