18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Interview with the Group Chief Executive Petrofacs Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, comments on the progress made by the Company during 2010 and its plans for the future.
Business review 19 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Interview with the Group Chief Executive Petrofac has delivered another Our production enhancement services completed: the Jihar gas plant in Syria exceptional set of results.
contract for the Ticleni oilfield in Romania for the Hayan Petroleum Company, the Why was 2010 such a good year?
The 15-year Harweel cluster development for Petroleum Many factors played a part: significant contract, which we estimate will be worth Development Oman, the Mina Al-Ahmadi contract wins, moves into new geographies US$270 million in the first five years, involves refinery pipelines project for Kuwait Oil and the successful completion of a number us taking full operational responsibility Company and the In Salah Gas compression of projects.
Fundamentally, however, we for this mature field on behalf of Petrom, project for Sonatrach, BP and Statoil in Algeria.
delivered record results once again because Romanias largest oil & gas group.
It marks we remained focused on our customers, both our first production enhancement Petrofac is changing as it grows.
on attention to detail and on excellence in services contract, something we had been In 2010, for example, you extended delivery and execution.
targeting for some time, and our first project your service offering and moved into in Romania.
What is your growth What were the highlights?
The years highlights, and they occurred Another advance came with our Petrofac is still a focused oil & gas business right across the Petrofac group, were all appointment by Total to develop the operating mainly in the upstream sector.
characterised by us breaking new ground.
Laggan Tormore gas processing plant We are changing, but in an evolutionary way.
The 500 million We reaped the first rewards of our build award is our first predominantly lump-sum Our growth strategy has two main elements: and harvest strategy with the demerging engineering, procurement and construction first, it will be built on deepening our of our UK Continental Shelf UKCS assets contract in the UK, and is a significant award competencies in order to become more to EnQuest PLC where they were combined for our Offshore Engineering & Operations active across the entire value chain.
We will with the UKCS assets of Lundin Petroleum business which will also draw on the also continue to pursue opportunities in new AB in a separate listed entity.
This crystallised support of our established Engineering & countries, where we see potential for growth a significant gain for Petrofac, demonstrated Construction business to deliver the project.
the value of our investment model and also enabled Petrofac shareholders to participate Another great moment was the inauguration How do you intend to operate across as shareholders in a production and of Syrias National Training Centre, the the entire value chain?
development company which has since countrys first ever oil & gas training facility, We want to deepen and extend our capability gone on to create even more value as a which we designed, refurbished and so that we can operate much more widely public company.
The inauguration event coincided across the life cycle of an asset, from concept with our annual investor trip and around definition and drilling management to Commencing work on the second phase 50 investors and financial analysts were delivering a turnkey development.
of the South Yoloten gas processing plant present when the Syrian Prime Minister, construction project in Turkmenistan, His Excellency Mohammad Naji Ottri, That process has been under way for some a new and important market for Petrofac, inaugurated the facility.
Our gift of the centre time.
Our engineering and construction roots was another milestone.
The US$3.4 billion to the Syrian Government, in support of are now complemented by other strengths, engineering, procurement and commissioning its drive to develop more skilled oil & gas such as our strong operations management, project is the largest lump-sum turnkey personnel, was the most significant donation training and consulting businesses.
In 2010, contract that we have ever signed.
We are we have ever made and emphasised our our appointment by the Malaysian national oil very pleased to be working with Turkmengas, commitment to the communities in which company, PETRONAS to develop the SEPAT the state-owned national gas company, on we work.
offshore early production system and our this project and our initial planning and set-up move into the field development programme studies have given us confidence that we can As well as these exciting new projects and for the second phase of the Cendor project, maintain our high standards and first class awards we kept our focus on execution.
also in Malaysia, significantly expanded our project delivery for this world-scale project We successfully completed the Ebla gas offshore engineering activity.
which is due to be completed in 2013. plant in Syria for PetroCanada, two months ahead of schedule and have substantially 20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Interview with the Group Chief Executive continued We believe we can create additional How swiftly do you intend to expand value for our customers by integrating geographically?
services and delivering them through a Building foundations in new markets, as we different, service-led approach.
This will did in Turkmenistan, Nigeria and Iraq in 2010, give customers the full capability they need is a major focus.
To ensure that we get while enabling them to retain full ownership it absolutely right for our customers and of their resources.
shareholders, we are expanding in a very measured way geographically: aiming to Our contract to lead the development of the add a selected number of markets each year.
Berantai field, which we signed just after the year-end, shows the potential for this type In 2010, you made a number of integrated service contract and how it can of relatively small acquisitions.
generate additional value for both customers Are you actively looking for further and for us.
We will develop and operate the acquisitions?
Berantai field offshore Malaysia, again for We are interested in making acquisitions, PETRONAS, for seven years after the first but only those that fulfil a strong strategic production of gas.
Alongside two local rationale or offer real synergies as we grow.
partners, we will be responsible for providing Our new energy businesses, CO2DeepStore and integrating a full range of services Limited, a leading developer of CO2 storage from design and construction to subsurface projects, and TNEI Services Limited, a technical services and operations.
renewable energy specialist, for instance, offer a platform for potential future growth The innovative commercial framework, in the emerging low carbon world.
whereby PETRONAS retains full ownership of its resources while our returns are linked As you evolve, how will you maintain to the delivery of the project, illustrates our the core qualities that have made commercial flexibility and commitment to Petrofac successful?
creating true alignment with the objectives In the coming years we expect to recruit many of resource holders.
As our organisation expands, retaining our unique culture and being true to our values will be essential.
This culture or DNA encompasses important things like taking ownership of problems, keeping a relentless focus on project Business review 21 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Interview with the Group Chief Executive There is no doubt that in the last 30 years Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we stay focused on execution and delivery, as I am sure we will, we have a fantastic journey ahead.
execution, being safe and responsive to Petrofac attracted major oil & gas Although we have continued to make great our customers, and maintaining a focus on executives to its Board this year, progress, we remain vigilant to complacency, close management of costs.
If we get these in both executive and non-executive and are focused on continually developing fundamental aspects of our business right roles see page 70 for details.
our people and evolving our business to then we have a strong foundation from which What do they bring to the Company?
stay at pace with the changing needs of to grow.
They bring many things, not least a deep our customers.
knowledge of the industry and a thorough While we are developing new capabilities understanding of customer needs, having 2011 marks the 30th anniversary of and executing our differentiated business come from international oil companies.
the foundation of Petrofac and the model, particularly in the areas of offshore More importantly, they bring experience of 20th anniversary of you joining the engineering and providing integrated services how some of the worlds most successful Company.
Can Petrofac remain for resource holders, we remain as committed companies think and work.
I am sure that successful over the long-term?
to the core activities that have made us they will provide invaluable insights that will Absolutely!
The 2010 Annual Report theme successful so far.
We will go on growing help us as we continue to develop our own Weve come a long way but the journey is our lump-sum turnkey and operations organisation.
just beginning is absolutely right.
Before we management activities in both existing look forward, I would like to briefly look back and new markets.
Our new directors are building on strong and thank everyone who contributed to our foundations.
I would like to thank our journey over the last three decades, especially You have invested in strengthening outgoing Chairman, Rodney Chase, who Ralph Martin, who passed away in February your internal systems this year with, has led our Board very effectively for six this year.
As one of Petrofacs original for example, the first roll-out of years and in this time has made a significant founders Ralph was an inspiration to everyone Petrofacs group-wide enterprise contribution to our success.
Also retiring from that knew and worked with him.
We all miss resource planning ERP system our Board at the AGM is Senior Independent him a great deal.
Why was Director, Kjell Almskog.
Kjell has served on this necessary?
our Board for six years and I thank him for There is no doubt that in the last 30 years Petrofac has grown very fast.
Within six years his valued contribution during this time.
Petrofac has achieved a great deal but, if we of our initial public offering, we have achieved stay focused on execution and delivery, as I more than a seven-fold increase in market Why are major industry figures am sure we will, we have a fantastic journey capitalisation and have more than doubled attracted to Petrofac?
In the coming years, I am confident our employee headcount.
I think we are becoming an increasingly that we will continue to create value for attractive employer for staff at all levels.
our shareholders and maintain our strong So, our systems must be robust.
They must People see us as doing things differently growth trajectory.
I am looking forward to allow Petrofac to be consistent and scalable, to others in the industry.
They are joining us participating in this next stage of our journey.
support strong governance and effective risk because they want to be part of our success management, and help us to ensure we have and to contribute to our future growth.
the right people, with the right skills, both now and in the future.
What do you believe has characterised Petrofacs success The strengthening of our corporate functions to date?
and systems, so they serve as a stronger Our success is rooted in our people and our resource for the business, has been a culture.
We have a great team of exceptional Ayman Asfari continuing priority for a number of years.
individuals who are very motivated and Group Chief Executive Throughout this process, we have identified driven.
They personify the Petrofac culture what is already working well and have acted and values.
to enhance it and spread best practice throughout the organisation.
Central to this The high level of employee share ownership development is the implementation of our also helps explain why we are different new ERP system TEMPO Technology to and our success.
Almost one in three of EMpower the Petrofac Organisation, but our people participate in one or more of this was not simply imposed on the business, our share schemes and I believe that this instead we chose the very best processes creates a huge degree of alignment between from those already operating in the business employees, the Company and our external and tailored the system around them.
We shareholders: they all share one aspiration are determined that our corporate functions of building long-term sustainable value.
should support our entrepreneurial business style, not just be a bureaucratic overlay to it.
