Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Chief Executive Officers Statement Dr Pavel Maslovskiy During 2010 the Group encountered numerous challenges, but also delivered record gold production, record revenues, new mines, a strong balance sheet and significant additions to our reserves and resources.
Operating results As a vertically integrated mining business, a significant part of what we have accomplished has been planned and executed in-house.
Several achievements are worthy of particular mention this year.
The commissioning of a third milling line at our flagship Pioneer mine, has transformed the site into a significant bulk-tonnage operation, capable of processing in excess of 5 million tonnes of ore annually.
3 During 2010, 19.6 million m of material was moved at Pioneer up 116% on 2009, 3.9 million tonnes of ore were mined up 203% on 2009 and 3.9 million tonnes were milled up 263% on 2009.
In addition to the substantial expansion of capacity at Pioneer, in August 2010, our Malomir mine and plant were launched.
This was a remarkable achievement, given the remote location of the asset and the infrastructure challenges it presented.
Malomirs first line began operating in August 2010, with work on the second phase of the plant continuing in parallel.
Commissioning of the second line is scheduled for the second half of 2011.
We are proud to have delivered both of these gold projects on schedule and look forward to their contribution in years to come.
Looking ahead, we endeavour to replicate our success in commissioning quality assets with the planned launch of our fourth mine Albyn, in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Although this was a record for us, the 2010 production figure was significantly below our initial production forecast range due to operational challenges, some of which were beyond our control, and the hurdle of moving to a seamless multi-mine operation.
Whilst we faced a number of challenges, these should be kept in perspective.
At Pokrovskiy, we experienced movement in the southern wall of the main pit, the stabilisation of which impacted on the mining schedule.
8 9 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Third processing line at flagship Pioneer mine 600,000oz launched April 2010 2011 attributable gold First processing line at Malomir launched August 2010 production forecast Albyn on track for commissioning in the fourth quarter of 2011, as scheduled Successful IPO of IRC Limited on the Stock Exchange Over 2.7Moz of Hong Kong Limited of gold produced since the Significant uplift in gold Ore Reserves and Mineral Company was founded Resources At Pioneer, mining capacity suffered due to a delay in the delivery During H2 2010, the Group increased its total holding in CJSC ZRK 3 of key 15m excavator equipment and adverse weather.
Accordingly Omchak has become a subsidiary and delayed excavators translated into a lower volume of stripping work, production from Omchak during H2 2010 was 100% attributable to the temporarily delaying the Groups ability to access higher grade ore. Group.
Production from Omchak for H1 2010 and for 2009 was 50% The consequent processing of lower grade ore resulted in a production attributable to the Group.
shortfall against our initial gold production target.
I am pleased to report that the Groups former Non-Precious Production at the newly commissioned Malomir mine was lower than Metals Division, IRC, was listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong originally envisaged due to the complicated structure of the upper levels Limited in October 2010, raising gross proceeds of approximately of the Quartzitovoye ore body, surrounded by lower grade material, US$240 million.
IRCs IPO was a commercial opportunity that helped resulting in lower than expected grades being processed through the mill.
us to realise the value of our non-precious metals operations and to partially spin-off the division, leaving us to concentrate on our core Costs business of gold exploration, development and production, while retaining an interest of 65.6%.
In December 2010, a subsidiary of IRC The Groups total cash costs for hard-rock deposits in 2010 were entered into a US$340m loan facility with the Industrial and Commercial US$558 oz, an increase of 84% compared to 2009, principally due Bank of China Limited ICBC.
The loan will be used towards funding to a 55% decrease in mined and processed grades at Pioneer and the construction of IRCs mining operations at K&S with production start up costs at Malomir.
The increase in costs was partially offset commencing in 2013.
In the same month, IRC also entered into by the increase in the average gold price realised and an increase a contract with China National Electric Engineering Company Limited in the physical volume of gold sold.
CNEEC, a major Chinese state-owned contractor, for the design and construction of mining and processing operations at K&S, including New licence acquisitions a processing plant that will produce iron ore concentrate.
As an organically grown producer, the acquisition of prospective new licences and subsequent exploration of these is a key focus in our Presidential visit strategy.
During 2010, the Group acquired new licences covering an area 2 totalling c. 3,279km in the Amur, Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk and Yamal regions, In July 2010, I was delighted to welcome the Russian President, as well as the EAO.
We look forward to exploring these prospective Dmitry Medvedev, who honoured the Group with a visit to our assets in due course.
On 22 February 2011, the Group acquired a gold metallurgical test plant in Blagoveschensk in the Amur region.
2 exploration licence, covering an area of 44.6km, in Mazaruni Mining District During his visit, the President took part in a ceremony to celebrate No.
3, Guyana, for the cash consideration of US$0.15 million.
the launch of the newly commissioned line at Pioneer and the processing facility at Kuranakh.
Reserves and resources We continued to actively build our gold reserves and rescources base 2011 and beyond during 2010, with Proven and Probable Ore Reserves increasing by 2010 was a transitional year for the Group, its employees and 36% and Mineral Resources by 96%.
In accordance with the JORC shareholders.
Petropavlovsk continues to evolve from a small-scale Code 2004, Petropavlovsk now has 9.1Moz of Proven and Probable business into a multi-mine operation and this evolution has naturally Reserves compared to 6.7Moz reported in 2010, 12.8Moz of presented some challenges.
But with challenges come opportunities Measured and Indicated Resources compared to 8.2Moz reported and the progress we made during 2010 has allowed us to build on in 2010 and 10.3Moz of Inferred Resources compared to 3.7Moz our strong foundations, positioning the Group to deliver sustainable reported in 2010.
The additional reserves and resources are attributable production growth in 2011 and beyond.
to both exploration work at existing sites as well as value generating acquisitions.
As in the past, future exploration will continue to be a key driver of our strategy and an effective way to convert quality reserves and resources into cost-effective gold ounces.
Corporate highlights In February, the Group took advantage of comparatively low market interest rates by issuing a US$380 million 4.00% guaranteed convertible bond maturing February 2015.
The funds received have strengthened our balance sheet and were mostly invested in prospective exploration Dr Pavel Maslovskiy and development work to deliver future production growth.
