4 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Questions and Answers Questions and Answers Harriet Green, CEO After a year of change, Premier Farnells CEO After three years I can see a real transformation in how Harriet Green offers thoughts on the progress of the our high performance and the development of a strong Company to Andrew Cave, Business interviewer at global team is delivering the results we committed to.
The Sunday Telegraph and author of the best-selling Our assumptions behind the EDE strategy were correct, book, The Secrets of CEOs.
with the EDE market continuing to grow as expected and proving to be much more robust than other parts Q1: Its now three years since you launched your of electronics.
Weve changed the whole culture.
So has it brought about the business When we started, we had 40 technically qualified transformation that you hoped for?
employees, now we have more than 200 globally including our Global Technology Centres GTCs in Bangalore and A: Absolutely.
We developed the strategy at the start of Chengdu providing important web content and technical our significant journey to transform the business to give capability, offering 24 5 technical support to customers clarity, focus and a very clear direction to our work.
The web has probably made the most significant When I arrived, the Company had not grown profitably difference to our business, certainly to our ability to react for six years and didnt have a clear strategy in terms of its at speed to customer need.
Weve gone from transacting core customer set and its primary approach to the market.
23.0% of our business via eCommerce to achieving Our proposition for high quality execution was sound but 41.5% of sales as we exited the year, a trend that is most our differentiators were confused and not focused enough advanced in Europe where nearly 60% of sales are on the future so it was vitally important to develop what transacted online.
The web is clearly becoming our we were and were not going to concentrate on.
customers channel of choice and we now think like a web business, whilst offering customers a multi-channel We came up with four primary areas.
We will continue to invest in the latest to focus on the Electronic Design Engineering EDE eProcurement solutions and web advancements to market, which our research showed was developing ensure we continue to lead the way in this vital area.
widely to be globally strong and sustaining, with growth We also introduced innovations like our element14 web rates conservatively estimated to be between 6%8% community where engineers can work, collaborate and per year.
Secondly, we set out to make investments solve design issues online, sharing information together, and transform the organisation to become a web-based supported by our tools and industry leading experts.
business clearly the future for our space and an area where we werent strong with only a very small amount Our internationalisation strategy is perhaps the area that of Premier Farnells business being transacted via the others thought was the most risky but for the month of web, despite it being most engineers preferred source.
May 2009, nearly a year ahead of our own goal, we Not many high service distributors had really looked achieved our target of having 20% of our business coming internationally outside the mature markets so we decided from these developing regions for the first time.
to radically expand our presence in China, India and Eastern Europe all economies with huge numbers of These geographies continue to go from strength to people developing and using engineering skills.
Finally, strength, and will receive even greater focus going we wanted to focus on adding the kind of value that our forward.
Weve also made the MRO business stronger, customers want in the more traditional Maintenance, more profitable and centred on serving our customers Repair and Operations MRO sector, and ensure that better.
Having a new strategy and executing it relentlessly sector also grew profitably to enable us to invest in brought significant benefits to Premier Farnell.
So we identified the Many new investors bought our stock for the web and areas and defined clear goals and metrics to measure our internationalisation transformation stories and because performance.
By the end of the three years we targeted: they could see the results were delivering.
Even during 50% of our business from EDEs globally, 50%70% of our the downturn, our worst quarter still saw an 8.2% return business via eCommerce and 20% from the new markets on sales.
And within three quarters of tough recession we were targeting.
You can see later in this report, on pages 14 and 15, how we did information which we had returned to both operating profit and sales growth.
demonstrates clearly why our strategy is so powerful, and shows the results we have achieved.
indd 4 28 4 10 12:09:20 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Questions and Answers As a service business having the right team knowledgeable, Secondly, people began to realise the power of our capable and engaged ready to support customers and internationalisation strategy, recognising that China, suppliers alike is also critical and growing the right team India and Eastern Europe were continuing to grow and for the future was also a key part of our transformation.
invest in their economies, particularly from an engineering Our leadership team has evolved along with the strategy perspective, In China, an estimated 300,000 engineers, to have a third of the original executive team, a third including 70,000 electronic engineers, leave universities promoted from within the organisation and a third each year, while about 450,000 new engineering degrees bought in from outside to further strengthen the skills are awarded annually in India.
This continued during the and experience of the team.
We have developed a culture downturn, driving demand for our services from both of high performance, every day looking to raise the bar on indigenous businesses and the growing number of our own performance.
High performance is recognised multi-national corporations basing their technical and rewarded, and we have a defined set of attributes operations in the APAC region.
Our strategy was clearly and behaviours to remind us all what high performance still relevant for this environment and the market realised at Premier Farnell looks like.
This is how we have delivered that it was actually acutely relevant to be driving more the success of our strategy and how we will continue to business internationally.
do so in the future as we evolve and grow.
Our focus on We drove both those elements hard and, by adding so people and building a high performance team has been much content and interesting product to our proposition, a vital part of our transformation.
engineers came to us even more during the recession, looking to centralise their purchasing needs.
Undoubtedly Q2: You have obviously needed to cope with the one of the reasons we were the first distributor to post global downturn during this period.
How has it growth after the downturn in the electronics and changed your market and how did Premier Farnell technology sector, as we did in the third quarter, was our respond?
focus on and adherence to our core strategy were good at it and we know how to make it work to deliver results.
A: The electronics and technology sector began to show As we look to offer engineers so much more than just signs of slowing in October and November of our 2009 products we added tools to element14 like the DesignLink financial year, characterised initially by huge destocking.
interface, which allows electronic design engineers to Some 99.6% of everything we transact is for same or search and find parts and product specifications from next-day delivery so we dont have huge forward visibility.
within their Computer Aided Design CAD environment.
Having enjoyed good quarter-on-quarter growth, the rate We bought electronic design software business CadSoft of decline was sharp.
We were able to respond with agility, Computers so we could offer design software to support not by changing our strategy but with accelerating our our customers.
During a downturn, technology leapfrogs plans and focusing harder on the core areas we had generations of product whether in the fields of cloud identified as our future.
computing, new biometrics, medical advances or Firstly, we were able to shape our business much more developments in surveillance, alternative energy, solar around the web.
We moved quickly in our focus to reduce cells, photovoltaics and the smart grid.
We saw a surge our total wages and general administration costs as a in innovation in April and May, which translated into percentage of sales by two percentage points.
In North increased activity and our return to year-on-year profitable America we closed all but seven of our branches in the growth in November.
US and all but two in Canada and we are investing US$7 million in a new state-of-the-art contact centre, which with our local field sales representation and a network of work-at-home sales agents gives us a Our web presence and strength presence in all of the key American markets.
These werent temporary cost-saving measures but were about continues to grow and will be fundamental accelerating the new shape and order of business centred to our future.
The introduction of one touch web ordering, and a growing suite of other best-in-class eProcurement tools, like iBuy and eQuotes, have all helped fuel the rate of transition.
The same principle is behind element14, So we emerge more efficient, streamlined and very much which has grown rapidly in a short space of time and the more aligned to our strategy.
Our web presence and site is now attracting up to 3,500 design engineers a day.
strength continues to grow and will be fundamental to Thats a phenomenal number from nothing and it has our future.
I dont think its been a period that anyone become known as the Facebook for engineers, it is clear in business has particularly enjoyed but, in terms of from the discussion threads forming that this eCommunity accelerating what we needed to do, it has been very is becoming a vital part of many engineers daily work and important.
When a business is growing by 6%8%, we will continue to expand its unique offering to meet their its very hard to permanently reduce your operating needs.
So our culture of operating on more of a web expenses as a percentage of sales by two percentage basis, inline with our strategy for growth continues, points.
Its actually much easier to get everyone focused bringing efficiency and cost benefits.
around a new shape and new order when the markets are very tough.
6 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Questions and Answers Questions and Answers continued Our performance over the last three years has There will be greater competition in Asia and theres a demonstrated the strength of the assumptions which definite war for talent that will become a great deal more underpin our strategy.
We will continue to focus on acute there.
You need different talent and different execution and driving our performance towards reaching capabilities because the old construct of hierarchy has the level of sales we saw before entering the downturn, changed and people have to think in much more circular, and with the resilience of our business and the strength more connected, more viral ways of getting things done.
of our strategy, we remain confident in investing for our Theres a lot more work to be done in our areas of focus.
We are totally focused on the opportunities within The launch of our element14 store has started a new our markets and the profitable growth of our business.
channel in North America to encourage and support EDEs.
Through new branding well take element14 more Q3: What do you see as your major achievements deeply throughout the globe.
On a Group level, we last year and what will be your major challenges in remained committed to our dividend throughout the the year ahead?
downturn, something many companies have not been A: One major accomplishment is the commitment our able to do.
And we will continue to acquire.
We have people have shown to return to the size of business we bought companies in India and Eastern Europe and are were before the downturn this is what we will view as looking vigorously in China and India to add more great real success, not simply growth against weaker capability and people.
Our assumptions around the EDE market Q4: What people are calling the reset global economy continue to be borne out whilst the resilience of the has focused minds on growth opportunities in developing international markets, their continued growth emerging markets.
Whats your view of their and our ability to support it were significant.
Im also very proud that throughout the downturn, we maintained our prospects and how important are they going to gross margins because this represents the extent to be to Premier Farnell in the future?
which customers value our proposition.
Customers A: When we started the emerging markets strategy, we valued our experience, products and services and our said that by the end of year three, developing countries gross margin was stable and slightly up over that period, would contribute 20% of our revenues.
This year these thats truly differentiating in our industry and few others markets accounted for 19.8% of our total Group sales can make the same claim.
Were also pleased with the and in the next three years we expect these businesses success of element14, the acquisition of CadSoft and to contribute a minimum of 30% of our growing revenues.
the transformation of our North American business to Our business in India grew sales by 70.3% in the last accelerate EDE and the web.
Our cash generation and quarter of 2009 while there was a 76.4% increase in management of working capital improved and we Greater China and a 74.6% advance over the same period continued to hit our metrics.
In China, the number of graduates has risen 1,000% in 30 years, while in India, there are now 3,500 engineering colleges.
Indias software industry is growing at a compound annual rate of about 30% and Our business in India grew sales by employs close to 1.6 million people, while the total Indian 70.3% in the last quarter of 2009. electronics market is forecast to grow to US$363 billion by 2015.
It remains an area of high government focus and investment.
It is estimated that by 2013 there will be 2.2 billion web users globally and in India is expected to be The reset global economy following the recession is the country with the third largest web usage within the predicted to be different from other recoveries.
South Korea and Taiwan are ranked first think it will be an inexorably upwards curve.
Weve seen and fifth in terms of global web penetration.
So I feel our economies come out of other recessions and immediately internationalisation strategy, founded on engineering and return to strong growth but it wont be linear this time.
web usage, has still got much runway and Im very excited It will be variable in different markets at different times about it.
We expanded into Russia, Latvia, Bulgaria, and that will make external and internal communities Hungary and Turkey last year and in 2011 we are moving nervous.
I cant recall a recovery into South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.
out of recession that has been so variable.
Another big We have to operate differently in each new developing challenge will come internationally.
Emerging economies, market one size simply does not fit all so responding to particularly China and India, are vital markets for most local needs and conditions is vital to success.
China has global companies, so how you thrive and flourish there a very strong, extremely well-educated environment that is very important.
But a very big challenge is how you is very, very well connected physically and virtually.
manage that and we see a lot of businesses in our We ship to 130 Chinese cities on a same-day or next-day industry trying to run Asia like the more mature markets basis because the infrastructure is so solid.
In India, when its a totally different environment and requires where the infrastructure is different we need more of a leadership teams that are much more agile and branch network and have nine regionalised branches experienced in multicultural dimensions.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Questions and Answers Theres also less web penetration in India than in China so you need to adapt your strategy around the local environment.
And, clearly in Eastern Europe, it was Ours is a truly global strategy, developed vital that we offered local language capability for those markets.
Im very excited about the investments weve and driven by an aligned senior team and made in these areas and the awards weve won for our regionally executed by the best in the people and our quality of particular significance our prestigious award last year from EDN China, naming us industry.
as the engineers favourite distributor.
The votes for this were cast by industry experts, technical officers and EDN Chinas readers and online members acknowledging the strong support we provide to the engineering community.
In addition to this environmental pressure to redesign and We continue to listen carefully to our customers and recreate new electronics, consumers constant thirst for develop our technical capability to meet their needs as smaller, more aesthetically pleasing devices and the new we grow our services, product range and technical advances that tend to leapfrog other technologies in a solutions for the future.
Innovation remains at the forefront downturn all drive need.
I dont think people would be of everything we do and knowing that our target customer thinking about cloud computing quite as aggressively base recognises our work is very gratifying.
as they are if there werent such huge cost and efficiency requirements.
Theres real innovation in medical Were really reaching the people in these parts of the electronics, in biometrics, such as retina, blood and skin world that need the services and the support we offer.
scanning and in alternative energy such as photovoltaic We have also found that the core information needs cells that release energy in a way thats triggered by of EDEs vary little globally, a fact evidenced on element14 electronics and in the whole concept of the smart grid, daily as multi-lingual discussion takes place on similar or how you store and release energy.
Then there are topics across global boundaries.
Reaching and great advances in optoelectronics, such as ultra connecting our customers globally is an area where we high-brightness Light-Emitting Diodes LEDs, and in will continue to expand and enhance our offering.
The rapid pace of this technology Ours is a truly global strategy, developed and driven by an and electronics environment means we need to keep aligned senior team and regionally executed by the best in stocking, supporting and understanding these the business a healthy mix of talent grown from inside technologies.
Its because of this that weve been the Company and specialists recruited from the wider developing more products and more services for industry to add knowledge and bench strength.
engineers, such as the element14 community, CadSoft software, and DesignLink, which helps link a design to Q5: Your Electronic Design Engineering strategy the part numbers and a bill of materials that engineers must give you a great insight into future trends in the want.
We are also working on virtual prototyping where global electronics industry.
So what trends do you engineers design and create their prototypes online.
see emerging and how is Premier Farnell positioned There are so many exciting developments that have been to take advantage?
accelerated by the recession as people take things to the next level and I firmly believe that it will be via these types A: For design engineers, probably the most critical factor of innovations in technology that will help us move in their work now is time-to-market: how quickly they towards a much brighter future.
need to translate ideas into designs and prototypes.
Our research shows that, while project lifetimes on Q6: Environmental and sustainability issues are average used to be 18 months from conception to being given increasing prominence across the world.
completion, the average is now much more like 18 weeks What does being green mean to you nowadays?
so theres enormous time-to-market pressure.
One of the reasons our EDE targeted strategy has flourished is the A: Well for me, theres a really important intersection sheer pervasion of electronics nowadays: there is more between the environmental principle that things we create electronics than ever before in our kitchens, our cars, should be respectful of both people and the planet and our lives and in industry.
A lot more attention is also the growing body of younger people, generation Y or even being paid to the aesthetics of engineering and their Z, entering the workspace now whose demands are so huge environmental impact and theres a great deal different from those of their predecessors.
They expect of new legislation making sure that older products are a level of transparency, of openness and communication redesigned, re-engineered and reformatted.
Examples that I dont think people saw as their right in the past.
include the European Unions Restriction of Hazardous And after the downturn theres this huge distrust of Substances RoHS directive, Registration, Evaluation, corporations.
So, for me, green means trust and at Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals REACH, Premier Farnell our corporate social responsibility drive is the European regulations for the safe use of chemicals part of our Trust Agenda.
It includes reducing emissions and WEEE, the Waste Electrical and Electronic from our main facilities by 10%, by changing our Equipment directive.
packaging and embracing biodegradable waste.
8 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Questions and Answers Questions and Answers continued However, at its core is how our people feel about us as Its a requirement from all of our stakeholders its why an organisation and how they can use the mantle of our we developed the Premier Farnell Trust Agenda, organisation to work in the community and to volunteer.
a commitment to all those we work with.
It all connects to transparency and trust.
We have to Q7: You have placed a great priority on driving demonstrate were worthy of the trust of our people, of Premier Farnells business on the web.
How have you our customers, of our supplies and of our shareholders.
accelerated this development over the past year and We must show them that we are responsible not only in our impact on the environment but in the ways that we what impact is that having on the business?
contribute to social and community initiatives.
So as well A: The web continues to lead our transformation.
We have as reducing emissions, we give people volunteering time 44 websites around the world, of which 29 are in local to encourage them to contribute to the community.
You languages and we will be setting up 3 new local language have to be part of the communities in which you operate.
element14 sites in South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand this In the same way, our communications and employment year.
On average more than 32.5 million pages are viewed practices must reflect the world in which we live.
We use on our transactional websites each month and we have the power of networking and modern tools to spread our the element14 community and our eMobile environment, message and develop connected, collaborative ways such as our iPhone and Android applications.
We have a video site, similar to YouTube Farnell iPhone App will enable customers to search for where our people post training videos, news, awards product data and information easily wherever they are.
presentations, messages and examples of best-in-class We have become a web business.
The web is now the practice powerful for sharing globally.
Other practices primary mechanism by which we interface with our like video conferencing and Voice Over Internet Protocol customers and how we drive business internally and VOIP are all helping us to work in a global environment externally.
whilst minimising harmful air travel.
We use online training Customers continue to seek more and more quality and development tools, everyone has clear objectives information, whether technical, environmental or and the senior teams are openly shared, aligned to the legislative, the hunger for reliable, trusted information that strategy and transparent for all employees to see in this they can rely upon to support their purchasing and design environment of trust.
We can have as much as three gigabytes of information per product and we provide our customers with immediate access to over 400,000 products.
Were rapidly establishing ourselves as the We give people volunteering time to information repository that customers and suppliers want and need and will continue to focus resource in this area.
encourage them to contribute to the Some of that content and that data, we develop ourselves community.
at our GTCs in Bangalore and Chengdu.
Were a technology business and a web business.
It has been an enormous transformation.
We were recently instrumental in a survey of Small and Medium Enterprises SMEs in the The Trust Agenda also reflects the needs of our UK electronics sector and the overwhelming concern employees because the way that people want to work raised was the burden placed on small organisations has changed inexorably.
This generation has a totally by legislation we seek to support and ease this burden different view of work.
Their demands and expectations by providing easy access to the data required, all in on employers are higher than ever before and rightly so.
Opportunities to work in multi-disciplined project teams, What weve already accomplished here is very expand their horizons and develop their careers are all encouraging but I believe its only the beginning.
In the very high on the agenda of those wanting to join the future, I can imagine a world in which all design engineers modern workplace, as well as companies who actively will come to element14 to do their work.
They could work display a commitment to corporate social responsibility, on their CAD activities, link their bill of materials with their not just talk about it.
We are constantly developing our designs and ask each other questions and then hopefully employee proposition as we want to attract the best go on to buy the products and the software they need to only then can we give of our best to customers and complete their design.
It will be a real workplace where suppliers.
We were excited to be recognised recently they can have most of their needs met and well continue for the quality and performance of our global social to provide more and more support to engineers, responsibility programme by Business in The Community centralising the services and tools they need to get their BiTC.
Their CR Index sets the standard and we have now work done.
Its about more than just product and software.
achieved their platinum level with a score of over 95%.
And the web overall will drive our business.
These continue I think being trusted as a business is one of the most to be very, very exciting times, shaped by technology and important elements of the reset from the recession.
our online footprint and presence will continue to grow.
The desire for transparency, honesty and giving something back to the communities we work in is no longer just some trendy, cool thing that neat CEOs do.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Questions and Answers In this latest evolution we also took wide-ranging input from customers, suppliers, industry experts as well as specialists on the future of the web, the semiconductor industry and software to help us identify and prepare for key trends and themes.
By looking forward to the constantly changing world we operate in and listening very hard to the needs and views of our important stakeholders we are keeping our strategy alive evolving to ensure we meet the needs of our customers and suppliers, both now and in the future.
With this understanding and the flawless execution of our plans we are confident that we will continue to grow profitably and deliver return on investment to our shareholders.
In October 2010, our plans for the next three years were approved by the Board.
Its not really a new strategy: its an evolution, developing Q8: You held a strategic review in the second new areas where we can expand in the EDE and web half of last year.
Could you explain the process you environment, particularly around green energy and went through?
What were your findings and what green technology and the whole Trust Agenda that as you do you believe the 2011 financial year holds for can tell Im so passionate about.
Its about developing Premier Farnell?
services beyond products, for example the virtualisation of prototypes, and using information more as an asset.
A: I undertook a strategic review when I arrived at the We have so much information about what our customers Company in April during the 2007 financial year and, want and need and we need to get that to the right places working with a team from every part of the business, to ensure that the right products are being developed to developed this strategy for profitable growth that we meet those needs.
Its also about distributing information launched the following January.
We said then that we for our suppliers.
Making sure all the data and information would measure its success after three years and evolve is available for people to tap into is very important.
Staying it to keep it very much alive.
connected to these needs is vital to our future and well Every quarter, we review progress with our senior team continue to listen and respond helping to shape the and subject matter experts and weve embedded it into future of high service distribution, and lead the way.
all of our key performance metrics.
Weve used the same clear metrics internally and externally to ensure absolute clarity and transparency.
Developing the strategy is the easy bit the really important part is putting it into operation and delivering the results you commit to.
To succeed we must take our employees Its vital that every person in the organisation knows their with us theyre a part of our future and part in the strategy each year our employee survey an intrinsic part of our success.
measures this and we score more highly than the benchmark set by some of the most successful companies in the world in this area.
To succeed we must take all our employees with us theyre a part of our future The year ahead will not be without its issues but we have and an intrinsic part of our success.
a clear strategy and a passionate vision.
Weve spent In the last six months of financial year 2010, we were busy three years developing one of the best teams in the evolving the strategy for the next three years, something industry and Im really excited.
The recession allowed us weve termed The Next 1,000 Days.
To do this, we have to accelerate more in one year than we probably would used nearly 1,000 of our own people those who know have done in two or three normal years and I feel that our business, our customers and our market and weve were very well equipped to meet the challenges ahead.
brainstormed, held workshops, all assisted by virtual Well keep investing, innovating and listening to the technology, our video site, collaboration tools and our changing needs of our customers and well continue eLife capabilities to get deep into the organisation.
to respond with the same agility and focus weve Premier Farnell only employs 4,100 people so its really demonstrated through the last three years.
exciting to have close to 1,000 of our people contributing to our strategy with their inputs and their ideas.
During the first phase of our strategy we worked with Professor Michael Porter, a world renowned strategist from Harvard Business School whose famous quote Strategy is the area where a company seeks to be unique perfectly encapsulates our continued approach.
To view this interview live, visit www.
