Chief Executives statement Our strategy & focus.
Robert Schofield Chief Executive Officer Last year we set out the Groups business strategy and in Improve efficiency addition, at the half year, we provided details of our financial Grocery manufacturing costs in the year were reduced by 8%, being strategy.
I would now like to report on the significant progress 6% from efficiencies, ahead of our 4% per annum strategic target we have made in 2010 in implementing these strategies and and 2% from deflation in energy costs.
In Group operating expenses, also our plans for 2011. savings of 17m were found chiefly from efficiencies in distribution.
STRATEGY Cash generation Introduction Recurring cash flow was 124m, versus the 100m target set Our vision is to be the best in British food with brands that you out in our strategy.
The outperformance was generated by good really love.
management of working capital including reducing stock holding by five days cover to 36.
16m of recurring cash flow was used to The Groups business strategy is: enable the swap restructure to take place: being 8m of settlement of a mark to market liability and 8m of fee for bank approval.
After to grow our branded sales faster than their respective other non-recurring items amounting to 5m this left 103m which markets by investing in and strengthening our brands and has been used to pay down bank debt.
their relevance to todays consumers: to gain competitive advantage by utilising our consumer Derisking swap portfolio and pensions insight and scale to deliver value to customers and to work The swap portfolio was restructured to remove the elements more effectively with suppliers: and which did not provide an economic hedge to the bank debt.
These elements were diverting cash flow by increasing short term to deliver efficiency benefits such that supply chain costs interest rates and were building up a large cash call risk in 2012.
By and overheads are held flat or decline while volumes grow.
restructuring the swap portfolio, these risks have been removed.
The short term interest cost has been reduced and the cash call has The Groups financial strategy is: been fixed at the then current mark to market and deferred to the to focus on cash generation and to reduce average debt to end of the current financing period, i. e. 2013.
EBITDA to 3.25 or less: The closure of the final salary pension fund has been agreed with the to derisk the swap portfolio and pension arrangements: and trade unions and pension trustees and will be implemented in the to diversify our sources of funding.
The previous final salary offer is replaced with a market competitive career average scheme for existing pension fund members and a money purchase scheme for new starters.
Despite the continuing difficult consumer environment, we have been able to progress with both our business and financial strategies in 2010.
In conjunction with the trustees of the pension fund, we have also agreed a programme to increase the amount of hedging between the Note: All financial metrics refer to the continuing Group plus fund investments and liabilities.
This will reduce the volatility of the deficit.
the Meat-free business unless otherwise indicated.
For the purposes of the financial statements the Meat-free business is Diversifying sources of funds disclosed within discontinued operations.
The swap restructure removed a considerable risk from the Groups balance sheet which would otherwise have prevented the Group Branded sales obtaining a credit rating.
We have now obtained a credit rating of Ba2 Branded sales are up 3.1% in volume versus category markets stable outlook from Moodys and BB stable outlook from both Fitch down 0.8%.
Sales revenue was down 0.3% on 2009 in line with the and Standard & Poors.
It is our intention to access the debt capital market.
Within this total, Drive brands are up 3.0%.
markets and raise a bond during the course of 2011.
This will diversify our sources of funding and reduce our reliance on bank debt.
Competitive advantage through scale In the year, procurement gains from working more strategically with Proposed disposal of Meat-free and Canning our suppliers added 16m to the Grocery trading profit.
businesses After the year end, the Group agreed the sale of its Meat-free 12 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 12 09 03 2011 11:27:42 Our business business and its East Anglian canned grocery businesses for a total This structure will: of 387m, equivalent to 7.6 times the combined EBITDA of 51m.
manage all brands together rather than separately by division After costs and pension contributions of around 17m and, subject to allowing for better prioritisation of resources: working capital adjustments on completion, the remaining proceeds establish a Group marketing function facilitating the sharing of around 370m will be used to reduce bank facility borrowings.
of consumer insight and maximising value from marketing spend: The disposals will leave the Groups branded sales percentage largely unchanged at 66.4%.
But both the gross margin and the trading profit concentrate more resources behind innovation in our Drive margin will be improved.
The main effect will be in the Grocery business and Core brands leading to a bigger contribution from new where the branded sales percentage will increase from 74.1% to and improved products: 82.3%.
The non-branded Grocery sales will be halved and the brands manage the Defend brands and non-branded businesses sold are largely in the Core and Defend categories.
separately to ensure their contribution is maximised: and The disposal will contribute materially to our objective of deleveraging.
consolidate back office functions to simplify back office On a pro forma basis, the Groups net debt will be below 900m and processes and facilitate cost reduction.
net debt EBITDA would be around 2.87 times.
In addition, average debt EBITDA would be reduced to around 3.72 times which is well on We will elaborate on these plans at an Investor Conference in the way to achieving the Groups stated target of 3.25 times.
Once the disposals are complete, the Group expects to have Outlook recurring cash generation of at least 80m per annum.
The Group Promotional activity increased significantly in 2010.
For 2011, we do believes that the EBITDA growth prospects are largely unchanged not believe that it will continue to escalate at the same rate but we as the Meat-free business had growth prospects whereas the are cautious about whether it will decline very quickly.
Canning business faced more difficult markets.
Commodity inflation has been running at mid single digit Initially, the effect of the disposals will be to dilute EPS.
This has required us to increase prices for our Group believes this is a temporary effect.
Firstly, the initial interest products.
At this level, we believe that inflation is manageable.
saving is at the marginal cost of bank funds.
Once a bank refinancing is undertaken, the saving will increase to the average rate.
Secondly, In 2010, the most dramatic effect of pricing and commodity inflation the simplification of the business achieved by the disposals will facilitate was felt in the significant fall in profitability in our Brookes Avana improving processes which will result in cost savings.
We are talking constructively with Marks and Spencer to agree new product ranges and revised pricing and supply arrangements Corporate Social Responsibility which we believe will return the business to profitability in 2011.
Last year we also published our first stand alone CSR report setting out the progress we had made against a number of objectives and Our focus in 2011 will be: also setting out our future plans to strengthen our approach to CSR to continue to take branded market volume share: in 2010.
We have also made significant progress in aligning our commitment to CSR with our overall business strategy to deliver to grow our percentage of Grocery branded sales from new long-term and sustainable business growth.
Details of our key and improved products as our innovation pipeline matures: achievements are set out on pages 36 to 43. to continue our drive for efficiencies: and Plans for 2011 to generate at least 80m of recurring cash flow.
In 2010 we have made significant progress in resolving the balance sheet issues which have up until now weighed heavily on the We would expect our focus to result in the Group showing progress in business.
With the financial path now clear and the journey well under 2011 without any further deterioration in the consumer environment.
way, we can focus our resources more firmly on building our brands.
To achieve this, we have now implemented a new organisation structure in which Tim Kelly was appointed Chief Operating Officer Robert Schofield Chief Executive Officer with effect from January 2011.
