Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 4 Chief Executives Review Strategy and targets Premiers business model is to achieve continuous growth in our production and development portfolio, whilst offering shareholders material upside through our exploration programme.
Our business is organised in three regional units.
We seek to grow and improve the quality of each of these businesses through investment in the full range of exploration, development and production activities.
In 2009, following the successful acquisition of Oilexco, we established a production target of 75,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd for 2012.
It is pleasing to report that, with strong progress on our three principal development projects in Vietnam, Indonesia and the UK, we are on track to meet that target.
Beyond those three projects, we have a portfolio of reserves and resources around the world which will form the next generation of developments.
As a result of the progress made on many of these projects we are confident that we will reach an average of 100,000 boepd by 2014.
The pre-development work carried out during 2010 in the UK on the future Catcher and Solan oil fields and in Indonesia on the Pelikan and Naga gas fields are examples of the good progress made on these projects.
Over and above our existing reserves and resources position, we have set out a plan to add 200 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe from our exploration efforts.
This is targeted to increase the overall level of reserves to at least 400 mmboe, capable of sustaining production growth beyond 100,000 boepd.
As a result of the exploration success achieved during the year, we are also on track to achieve this ambitious target.
We expect to increase expenditure on exploration over time and our new venture teams are working hard to secure new high-quality acreage.
Critical to achieving our growth objectives is the maintenance of a strong balance sheet and good liquidity.
This funds our existing development assets, pre-funds future projects and Simon Lockett also gives us the capability to add to the portfolio where we Chief Executive see good quality acquisition opportunities.
Overriding all of our corporate growth targets is an absolute commitment to operating responsibly and meeting our health, safety and environmental standards.
We are pleased to report that all of our operations have been awarded or have retained OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications.
Our operated greenhouse gas emissions intensity now shows a consistent downwards trend and average oil in produced water declined significantly.
Additional steps have been taken to prevent hydrocarbon spills including the strengthening of our pollution prevention audit process.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 5 2010 was an excellent year for the group with exploration success and development project progress.
We have added significant value for our shareholders and are on track to meet our ambitious production growth targets.
2011 has already built on progress made with development drilling complete, further exploration successes and new licences awarded across our three regional businesses.
2010 financial and operating performance Brent oil prices averaged US$79.5 per barrel bbl in 2010, some 29 per cent higher than the average of US$61.7 bbl in 2009.
Gas prices realised in the Singapore market, which are directly linked to High Sulphur Fuel Oil HSFO prices, averaged US$13.9 per thousand standard cubic feet mscf, a 26 per cent increase on 2009.
Combined with continuing strong demand for our gas in Singapore, higher prices generated record sales revenues for the group of US$763.6 million 2009: US$621.1 million.
Though overall production remained stable at 42.8 kboepd 2009: 44.2 kboepd, profits after tax of US$129.8 million 2009: US$113.0 million also reached record levels.
Operating cash flow after tax was US$436.0 million 2009: US$347.7 million, an increase of 25 per cent.
Strong cash flows helped to fund the significant investment programme undertaken during 2010, which will drive an increase in production levels during 2011 and 2012.
Development expenditure was US$347.1 million 2009: US$192.5 million.
We also increased our exploration and appraisal programme, drilling a total of 14 wells at a cost, including seismic and other exploration activity, of US$164.7 million 2009: US$107.5 million.
We remained active in the capital markets with two increases in bank facilities during the course of the year, providing capacity not just for current investment but for continuing expansion.
At year-end, total debt facilities stood at US$1,822 million, with cash and undrawn bank and letter of credit facilities of US$1,202 million.
Our investment programmes continue to expand our reserves and resources base.
Oil and gas proven and probable reserves increased to 261 mmboe 2009: 255 mmboe.
Reserves and resources increased to 488 mmboe 2009: 468 mmboe, the principal addition being our discoveries in the Catcher area in the UK North Sea.
Our exploration and appraisal programme in 2010 delivered eight discoveries from 14 wells, most notably with four successful wells in Block 28 9 in the UK, the Catcher area.
This series of wells and the ongoing exploration programme across this block are likely to result in the largest new oil project in the UK sector of the North Sea for a number of years.
Elsewhere in the North Sea, we also had successful discoveries at West Rochelle in the UK and at Blbaer in Norway.
We continue to build on our acreage position in areas in which we have a good understanding of the geology and a database of subsurface information.
We acquired interests in nine new blocks in the 26th Licensing Round in the UK Central North Sea and a further two licences in the most recent round in Norway.
Building on our knowledge of rift plays in several parts of the world, we have taken an interest in the northern Red Sea block south of the Gulf of Suez and were recently awarded, subject to negotiation of terms, two licences offshore Kenya, further south within the African rift play fairway.
2011 outlook Our project execution teams in Asia and the North Sea remain focused on delivering our principal development projects on schedule during the coming months.
Completion of construction and upgrade work in yards and the development drilling programmes offshore are progressing well.
There is also much focus on future development projects which bring together the full range of subsurface, engineering, project management, business development and financing skills within the group.
We anticipate the achievement of further significant milestones on many of these projects during 2011.
Our exploration programme for the year targets 20 wells with unrisked resource potential of around 400 mmboe.
We have already discovered further oil and gas in the Catcher area in the UK.
The data acquired is now being integrated with our existing knowledge from prior wells on this block.
We look forward to the outcome of the ongoing programmes in Egypt, Vietnam, Indonesia, Norway and the UK and to the continuing efforts of our new venture teams to add future drilling opportunities to the portfolio.
