Business review Chairmans statement Details of our business performance in the 2010 financial year are set out in the Operational review on pages 11 to 15.
Board changes During the year Giles Thorley informed the Board of his intention to step down as Chief Executive and leave the Board.
I would like to thank Giles for the commitment and drive that he has brought to Punch Taverns during his time with the business.
His dedication did not waiver during good or bad times and he has left a business poised to benefit from an improvement in economic conditions.
We wish him every success in the next part of his career.
On 6 September 2010, just after the start of the new financial year, Ian Dyson joined us as our new Chief Executive Officer.
Ians career spans 27 years in organisations such as Marks & Spencer plc, The Rank Group plc, Hilton Group plc, Granada Forte plc and Arthur Andersen.
Ian is an exceptional hire who will add further strength to the high calibre team at Punch Taverns.
He brings a great combination of strategic, operational and financial Peter Cawdron Independent Non-executive Chairman experience having worked in some of the UKs leading businesses.
These skills will be invaluable to Punch Taverns future development.
I am delighted to welcome Ian to Punch Taverns.
Our people I would like to thank all our employees for their dedicated effort as, throughout the year, our operational teams have remained highly focused, in challenging conditions.
Peter Cawdron An introduction from the Chief Executive Officer I am delighted to have joined Punch Taverns and to have the opportunity to build on the progress made over the last year.
While we have been encouraged by more recent trends in both the leased and managed businesses, the economic environment is very difficult and there remains room for improvement across all aspects of our business.
I have started a comprehensive review of our strategy, operating performance and capital structure with a view to exploring options to create value for our shareholders.
Ian Dyson Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer from September 2010 10 www.
