Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers review QinetiQs deep customer relationships in the UK and the US, together with the world-class expertise and innovation of its employees, provide the capacity for longer term profitable growth.
Leo Quinn Chief Executive Officer During the past year, it became apparent that our markets were Our US products businesses gives us a strong route into the worlds undergoing significant changes, as Governments sought to reduce most advanced defence market and we believe that this position, their budgets and their debt, while continuing in the short-term combined with the complementary skills of our research and to conduct high levels of military operations abroad.
These expertise in the UK, has the potential for profitable growth on uncertainties had a marked impact on the Groups performance, a global basis.
but also highlighted the need for substantial internal change if we were to chart a course to profitable and sustainable growth.
Fit for the future My focus for the Group is to deliver the full potential of the That is why, immediately following my appointment in November investments which the Group has made.
This means removing 2009, I began a review of our operations and processes.
That review barriers to success and focusing rigorously on the best opportunities is now complete and the Board has agreed our priorities and actions created by our markets and our own strengths.
My objective is to to return QinetiQ to strength.
build a new trajectory for QinetiQ, one with a very clear direction and more urgent pace.
Our customers needs, the development of offerings which address those needs and their successful execution, Review of operations and processes must be our touchstone.
I am making changes to ensure that QinetiQ In recent years, QinetiQ has grown rapidly both by acquisition and by competes successfully in challenging markets.
We need to remain seeking to use its technology in industries outside its core expertise.
competitive, have robust processes which make us fit for the future, To date, these investments have not delivered their expected returns fit for growth, and that means tackling the way we all work.
We are and the Groups net debt has risen significantly.
In addition, the focused on reducing our costs, improving our efficiency, stabilising organisational structure and processes within QinetiQ have become our business and becoming more flexible and agile.
I set out my overly complex and fragmented which is a barrier to effective priorities over the following pages.
These factors, combined with challenging market conditions, make it imperative that QinetiQ ensures it has a strong I believe these changes are essential to provide the Group with a foundation on which to build.
QinetiQs deep customer relationships in the UK and the US, the two leading markets in its core areas, together with QinetiQ predominantly comprises a range of service businesses, the world-class expertise and innovation of its employees, provide positioned to advise and support customers to achieve efficiency the capacity for longer-term profitable growth once the Groups and effectiveness in the UK and the US.
These businesses are based operations and processes have been returned to strength.
on and continue to refresh QinetiQs deep customer knowledge and technical understanding of the aerospace, defence and security sectors, and are capable of providing a relatively stable and Trading environment and outlook predictable income pattern.
This capability is based on the expertise This has been a difficult year for QinetiQ, with challenging of our people and the relationships they develop in specific national conditions in our core markets and considerable internal change.
markets and, over time, should create opportunities to provide Our markets are likely to remain uncertain for some time, but similar services in other countries.
we now have a decisive programme of self-help to restore value.
We are acting to make our costs more competitive, our productivity The Group also possesses a smaller proportion of product businesses better and our debt lower.
We are changing our structure to benefit with technically advanced offerings developed in-house.
Today from QinetiQs overall strengths.
Most of all, we are working to these products are sold principally to customers in the UK and the transform our culture into one based on leadership, accountability US, but the market is potentially global.
By their nature based and empowerment of what is an outstanding group of people.
on technology these businesses have higher margins but more With these immediate steps, the Board believes that it will meet variable sales and, to date, they have been managed without its expectations for the current year.
At the same time our goal is to sufficient sharing of intellectual property or scale between the build the right foundation for a return to profitable and sustainable UK and US operations to maximise opportunities and profitability.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Our structure Our service businesses address national markets and our product businesses address a global market.
US Services UK Services Global Products Systems Engineering Managed Services Technology Test and Evaluation Group Solutions UK Aerospace Technology Advice Mission Solutions Solutions Training Delivery Group Group US Australia 80% Services Advice 20% Products Supply Nationally focused Globally targeted The My Contribution programme My Contribution, introduced in March this year, is the umbrella activity driving continuous improvement, Productivity employee engagement and operational performance One within QinetiQ.
It is a tracked QinetiQ and measured productivity programme by which all employees are able to generate and voice their My 365-days Cash ideas and, more importantly, Contribution selling convert them quickly into projects that deliver concrete business benets.
Value for Commercialisation money of innovation 6 www.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers review continued How we will operate Action plan KPIs Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches both Move to a new reporting structure comprising three Return on capital employed customer needs and core QinetiQ strength divisions: US Services, UK Services and Global Products Operating profit Operating profit margin Strategy Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, Introduce standardised management reporting Operating cash conversion removing unnecessary layers and regular reviews of key business drivers Increase transparency and control through all levels Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented mindset Employee engagement Assess the top leaders Group-wide, setting targets Customer satisfaction for performance and behaviours which reect Group objectives for profit and cash, and providing appropriate incentives Performance Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and Install a Group-wide performance management empowerment to our people system and directly engage employees in the improvement of productivity Eliminate waste and reduce costs with better Operating profit margin Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future competitiveness business processes and a unied QinetiQ approach Employee engagement Ensure a more unied approach Group-wide to exploit key opportunities Reduce debt by driving cash generation, including Net debt EBITDA ratio Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Group's balance sheet tight measurement of working capital to reduce Operating cash conversion the ratio of net debt EBITDA to below 2.0x KPIs Suspend payment of dividend on QinetiQ's ordinary shares for 12 months Our priorities Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, To strengthen our foundations and build a future path to sustainable removing unnecessary layers The Groups current fragmented and profitable growth, the following priorities to create value have structure has hindered development of its full potential.
operating model and management of the service businesses, which comprise approximately 80% of our total sales, differ Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches markedly from that of our product businesses, which currently both customer needs and core QinetiQ strength Going forward, account for about 20% of sales.
A new structure comprising three our investment decisions will be guided by building on our divisions US Services, UK Services and Global Products will known strengths.
Some parts of the original QinetiQ strategy enable greater focus to leverage QinetiQs expertise, technology, have proven successful over recent years focusing on the needs customer relationships and business development skills to enable of existing customers, exploiting the potential of our expert sustainable and profitable growth.
technical services and the decision to enter the US marketplace, the largest defence market in the world.
However, we have not Increase transparency and control through all levels Following been successful at commercialising our technology or exploiting a period of growth, it is essential to put disciplined standard it in adjacent markets.
As yet, we have not achieved the potential processes which aid transparency and management visibility into from extending into defence markets beyond the UK and the US, the operations.
This includes standard reporting of performance and from fully integrating and developing some of our acquisitions.
information across the Group and regular reviews of talent, Unquestionably, QinetiQs strength lies in its ability to provide innovation and cost reduction.
customers with trusted advice, working in close partnership, and using its expertise in both technology and specific markets to Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented enable customers to have greater efficiencies and to take effective mindset Given the challenges ahead for the business, it is decisions.
This work, including the research we conduct on vital we have the right strength of team in place and remove customers behalf, in turn continually refreshes the knowledge unnecessary management layers.
Continually evaluating and and value of our people to provide innovative services.
upgrading the top leaders, setting clear expectations which align performance and behaviours with the Groups overall objectives, with appropriate incentives to drive profit and cash, are key to our achievement of success.
Increased communications and engagement by leaders, both with their own teams and customers, and the delivery of value for our shareholders, will be laid out in personalised leadership charters and published throughout the organisation.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 How we will operate Action plan KPIs Set a clear direction which reduces the span of focus and matches both Move to a new reporting structure comprising three Return on capital employed customer needs and core QinetiQ strength divisions: US Services, UK Services and Global Products Operating profit Operating profit margin Strategy Simplify and align our operating structure with the new direction, Introduce standardised management reporting Operating cash conversion removing unnecessary layers and regular reviews of key business drivers Increase transparency and control through all levels Upgrade leadership to ensure a commercial, value-oriented mindset Employee engagement Assess the top leaders Group-wide, setting targets Customer satisfaction for performance and behaviours which reect Group objectives for profit and cash, and providing appropriate incentives Performance Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and Install a Group-wide performance management empowerment to our people system and directly engage employees in the improvement of productivity Eliminate waste and reduce costs with better Operating profit margin Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future competitiveness business processes and a unied QinetiQ approach Employee engagement Ensure a more unied approach Group-wide to exploit key opportunities Reduce debt by driving cash generation, including Net debt EBITDA ratio Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Group's balance sheet tight measurement of working capital to reduce Operating cash conversion the ratio of net debt EBITDA to below 2.0x KPIs Suspend payment of dividend on QinetiQ's ordinary shares for 12 months Create a strong performance culture of both accountability and Ensure a more unified approach Group-wide to exploit key empowerment to our people QinetiQ needs to build a culture opportunities We need a more unified approach to exploit key which embraces individual contribution and responsibility opportunities, so that we leverage our customer knowledge and through measurement.
A new performance management system, technical expertise better, including our approach to untapped My Personal Success Plan, will focus on identifying our top leaders opportunities in smaller international markets outside the UK and of the future and helping each person to develop their potential.
Through a more unified approach to working as one team We will actively enrol the knowledge and ideas of our teams and making key decisions on a global basis, we can develop our through the roll-out of My Contribution, a tracked and measured best opportunities and most effective routes to market to build productivity programme which embeds the concept of employee QinetiQs reputation and position.
engagement to improve business performance.
We are refreshing our focus on Health and Safety as this is fundamental not only Drive for cash generation to strengthen the Groups balance to employee well-being but also to the nature of the work that sheet We intend to reduce our indebtedness.
We have identified we undertake.
As part of this, in response to the findings of the a number of self-help measures to drive cash generation harder, Haddon-Cave report, we are recruiting a new Group Safety including the reduction of working capital, lowering costs and the Director to the Executive Team.
Establish a lower level of cost base to ensure future competitiveness Our customers are all under increasing pressure to gain better value for their investments and, as a supplier to these markets, we must have a competitive cost base.
We are therefore re-examining and streamlining our business processes through a programme called Fit4Growth, focused on improving our systems and procedures to ensure we reduce and retain tight control of our costs, eliminate inefficiencies and address loss-making activities.
And, whilst we will continue to invest in developing our businesses and our people, this must be financed by rigorously reducing other costs.
The gearing ratio is net debt to adjusted EBITDA and the definition is in the glossary on page 98.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9
