Chief executives review GROWING OUR BUSINESS PROFITABLY Profit increased and key Forecast group consolidated production 000oz 1 400 1 200 development targets met in 1 000 challenging year 800 600 400 Significant production increases 200 0 and cost reductions forecast 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Morila 40% Loulo-Gounkoto complex 100% Tongon 100% Kibali 50% Massawa 100% It is just over 10 years ago that we poured the first gold at Morila, marking the start of a period of spectacular growth for this company.
Five years later, Loulo was brought into production, followed at the end of 2010 by Tongon.
All three mines were based on orebodies discovered by our own geologists and built by our own project teams, and none was without its challenges: Morila coincided with the lowest gold price in history: Loulo needed debt and hedging: and Tongon was developed in a country struggling to emerge from a decade of internal conflict.
At the start of this year, we had substantially grown our asset base through the continuing expansion of the Loulo complex, the acquisition of a 45% interest in the Kibali project and two major new discoveries in the form of Gounkoto and Massawa.
We fully recognised that 2010 would be a critical period in the history of Randgold - one in which we needed to consolidate our business and strengthen our teams in order to deliver on our ambitious growth plans, without losing our core competitive advantage of being one of the most successful discoverers of multimillion ounce gold deposits in our industry.
As it happened, the year proved to be even more challenging than we had anticipated, but despite some daunting operational and political obstacles, the company increased its profit by 43%.
More importantly, it kept intact its strategy of creating real stakeholder value in the African gold industry, delivered on some very demanding objectives and remained firmly on course to achieve its future growth targets.
Our one real disappointment was the underperformance at Loulo, which resulted from the continuing delay in the development of the Yalea underground mine.
By mid-year we decided that the time had come for a top-level intervention, and what is virtually a new team is now driving the turnaround.
The team is being led by Ted fide Villiers, who joined our group executive in December in the newly created position of group general manager: mining.
While there is much to be done in the way of remedial action the entire underground mining schedule is in effect being redeveloped the team believes that Yalea could start delivering its full scheduled production by the middle of this year.
Far outweighing Loulos lack of delivery, however, are the very substantial achievements of 2010: We rapidly advanced Gounkoto from an electromagnetic anomaly to a major mine, which is expected to be contributing to production by the middle of this year.
Randgold Resources 8 Annual report 2010 We commissioned Tongon virtually on time in an Gounkoto complex.
We are currently working on a strategy to environment seriously disrupted by political contention, identify our management risks and to drive skills development, and it is running well in these difficult circumstances, particularly at the supervisory and junior management levels.
posting a profit in its first quarter of operation.
We completed the feasibility update on Kibali, which The strength, depth and breadth of our teams will stand us in has been rescoped as a significantly larger operation, good stead in the coming year, which is going to be another and good progress at the pre-development stage has very challenging one for the company.
Rapid growth inevitably enabled us to speed up the planned start of construction brings stress, which will be intensified by the fact that we have by six months.
a number of large projects that are at critical stages.
The key The development of Gara, the second underground objectives we have set ourselves for this period are: mine at Loulo, is on track and up to standard.
The Yalea underground mine to achieve its full targeted Morila beat its production and cost targets.
Our exploration teams continued to find more ore for Gounkoto to start delivering ore to the Loulo plant for Loulo, and to expand the value of Gounkoto and Kibali, processing on a toll basis by mid-year.
while still feeding a constant flow of new targets into our The Relocation Action Programme at Kibali to be prospect pipeline.
successfully implemented and construction of the mine Consequently there was another significant increase in to start by mid-year.
our resources and reserves, which grew by 16%.
The orebody development at the Gara mine to start as The sale of Volta Resources shares, acquired on the sale scheduled at the end of March.
of Kiaka, delivered a further profit tranche.
The second mill stream at Tongon to be commissioned Both Loulo and Morila posted significant improvements in anticipation of full production when the political in their safety and environmental performance, with situation in Cte dIvoire has settled down.
Loulo achieving its ISO 14001 environmental certification and is on track for ISO 18001 safety certification.
The setbacks of 2010 will not dent our overall growth profile, which projects significant production increases and cash cost Among these highlights, Gounkoto, Tongon and Kibali merit reductions over the next five years.
Particularly in the first special mention.
half of 2011, however, our focus on efficiencies and costs will have to be even tighter than usual.
Loulos 2011 production The 5.5 million ounce Gounkoto deposit is a vivid illustration of is expected to be in line with the forecast of 420 000 to the effectiveness of Randgolds exploration-driven strategy of 440 000 ounces, of which some 120 000 ounces will be organic growth, as well as of its ability to fast-track promising contributed by Gounkoto in the latter half of the year.
In fact, it took just 26 months to start mining there is scheduled to produce around 200 000 to 210 000 ounces, from the day the first borehole returned 46 metres at 13g t. while Tongon should contribute 260 000 to 270 000 ounces, The discovery and development of this orebody, located just provided the political situation in Cte dIvoire does not impact 25 kilometres from the Loulo plant, has immediately catapulted on the mine much longer.
On the basis of these projections, the Loulo complex into the mega-mine league.
group production for 2011 is forecast to be between 750 000 and 790 000 ounces - an increase of more than 70% on last At Tongon, weve been dealing, diplomatically and year.
Management is targeting total cash costs per ounce, productively, for years with the factions that now constitute after royalties and taxes, of less than US$600 oz for the group, the Cte dIvoires rival governments.
Our team continues to subject to exchange rates and input costs remaining in line do a great job of steering the operation sensitively through with levels seen at the start of the year.
a complex and dynamic set of circumstances.
It is a tribute to them that they are so ably dealing with the impact of the The past year has tested the mettle of Randgolds people like political fallout on their operating environment while keeping none before.
I thank them all for the unquenchable can-do the project on track, albeit at a slower pace.
spirit they displayed in the face of some very tough odds.
I would also like to thank our chairman and the other members It is only 12 months since we closed the Kibali deal and of the board for the clear-eyed perspective and sage guidance in that time our teams have made enormous progress they provided at the strategic level.
Finally, ours is a business there, significantly expanding the reserves, processing a based on partnerships, and we are very appreciative of the comprehensive commercial and technical assessment and value we gain from the support of our stakeholders, associates, advancing the pre-development programme, including its advisors and the regulatory authorities of our host countries.
We have also developed a We look forward to the further development of these mutually constructive, transparent and committed relationship with advantageous relationships in the years to come.
The updated feasibility study points to an operation of 4 million tonnes per annum with the possibility of On a personal note, I would like to thank the companys further boosting this, which puts Kibali in the Loulo Gounkoto suppliers and other sponsors who so generously supported league, with a lot of upside still to come.
the motorbike ride I undertook with a number of my colleagues to raise funds for humanitarian projects in Burkina As the chairman noted earlier in this report, Randgolds success Faso, Cte dIvoire, Mali and Senegal.
Combined with our is based on the quality and commitment of its people and in exploration teams annual tour of the companys projects, its ability to build productive relationships with stakeholders the month-long ride from Dakar to Abidjan generated some and business partners.
We remain acutely aware of the need US$300 000 in cash and considerably more in kind for a to attract, retain and develop the best people in our business.
wide range of small local community initiatives of a kind often overlooked by social responsibility and aid programmes.
Over the past two years we have strengthened and expanded our top management team, appointing Samba Toure and Willem Jacobs to the new positions of operational managers for West and Central Africa respectively, and adding Ted fide Villiers to the group executive to head the mining function.
We have also staffed two complete new business units at Tongon and Kibali, improved financial management Mark Bristow across the group and beefed up the management of the Loulo Chief executive Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 9
