Chairmans statement Anthony Habgood Chairman I am pleased to report that Reed Elsevier has made significant Considerable progress has been made progress in 2010 as our markets strengthened and we saw the during the year resulting in improvements benefit of the actions which management has taken in the business.
Underlying revenues were 2% higher in constant currencies with in trading performance with underlying the return to growth reecting improved performance in our more sales returning to positive organic growth.
cyclical markets, together with a sustained commitment to new product development and a focus on sales & marketing initiatives.
Reported profits are strongly ahead Our reported revenues were at at 6,055m expressed in sterling with the bulk of our major restructuring and increased by 4% to 7,084m expressed in euros.
During the year, action was taken to divest low return assets, such that total programmes now behind us.
Management revenues were 1% lower in constant currencies.
has put in place business unit teams to sharpen the focus on value creation and Firm action on costs and further innovations in our operational processes has meant that total costs at constant exchange rates operational execution.
I am confident that declined 1% and adjusted operating margins at 25.7% were just the good progress which is being made 0.2 percentage points lower than in 2009, despite the increased spending on new product development and sales & marketing.
on individual business priorities will deliver Adjusted operating profits were 1% lower at 1,555m up 3% further improvements.
Adjusted profit before tax was at at 1,279m up 4% at 1,496m.
Adjusted earnings per share were down 5% for Reed Elsevier PLC at 43.4p and 1% lower for Reed Elsevier NV at 0.78, taking into account 4% dilution from the July 2009 equity placing.
Reported operating profit was up 39% to 1,090m 45% to 1,275m.
This reects the absence of intangible asset and goodwill impairment in 2010 and much lower exceptional restructuring charges as we get these programmes behind us.
Reported earnings per share for Reed Elsevier PLC were up 58% at 27.3p and for Reed Elsevier NV up 62% at 0.51.
4 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Dividends In April 2010, Dien fide Boer-Kruyt retired from the Reed Elsevier NV The Boards are recommending equalised final dividends of 15.0p Supervisory Board.
At the Annual General Meetings in April 2011, for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.303 for Reed Elsevier NV, at and up Lord Sharman will also be stepping down as a non-executive director 3% respectively against the prior year.
This brings the total for the of our Boards.
Both completed more than nine years of valuable year to 20.4p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.412 for Reed Elsevier NV, Board service.
Colin Sharman also served for all this period as an respectively unchanged and an increase of 3%.
The differing growth important member of the Audit Committees, eight years as their rates reect movements in the sterling-euro exchange rate between chairman, and was a key member of the Nominations Committee.
I would like to thank both Dien and Colin for their substantial contributions to the Boards through a period of significant change Balance Sheet for Reed Elsevier.
During the year our net debt, which is principally denominated in US dollars, reduced from $6.3 billion to $5.4 billion reecting Marike van Lier Lels joined the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board the excellent cash generation in the year and capital discipline.
in January 2010 in anticipation of Diens retirement and I am pleased Our financial position is strong and our balance sheet is well placed to say that Mr Adrian Hennah will join our Boards as a non-executive to support our business strategies.
director, to succeed Lord Sharman, subject to shareholder approval at the respective Annual General Meetings in April.
Adrian is a Management and Boards serving Chief Financial officer of a FTSE 100 company with over Over the past twelve months, our Chief Executive officer, 25 years experience in finance and operations in the medical Erik Engstrom, has been reshaping the management organisation.
devices, technology and pharmaceuticals industries and he will bring LexisNexis, with effect from January 2011, has been divided highly relevant experience to our board discussions.
On appointment, into the Risk Solutions and Legal & Professional businesses, he will become a member of our Audit Committees and of the with distinct management teams reporting directly to him.
Reed Business Information has undergone a major restructuring of its portfolio and operations during the year and is now organised Going forward by key asset groups, each with its own specic strategic priorities Our markets have stabilised or are showing improvement.
These changes will further improve the of our businesses is focused on value creation and operational focus of each business in their respective markets and accelerate execution.
I am confident that the good progress which is being our progress.
made on individual business priorities will deliver further improvements.
In December 2010, Andrew Prozes retired from our Boards and as Chief Executive officer of LexisNexis after 10 years of service.
Anthony Habgood During that time, Andy built a leading Risk Solutions business, Chairman led the transition of the legal businesses from publishers of content to providers of online solutions, and developed a leadership position in online legal solutions outside the US.
I would like to thank Andy for his contribution to the development of LexisNexis and Reed Elsevier over many years.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 5 Chief Executive Ofcers report on product development and sales & marketing, particularly in the legal & professional business, was funded largely by cost actions across the businesses with continuing focus on process innovation.
Adjusted pre-tax profits were at at 1,279m up 4% at 1,496m, and 1% lower at constant currencies.
Adjusted operating cash ow continued to be strong at 1,519m 1,777m with an excellent 98% conversion of adjusted operating profits into cash.
The post tax return on capital employed improved to 10.6%, 0.2 percentage points higher reecting the strong cash generation and increased capital efficiency.
Adjusted earnings per share were down 5% to 43.4p for Reed Elsevier PLC, 1% lower at 0.78 for Reed Elsevier NV, and 6% lower Erik Engstrom at constant currencies.
This included a 4% dilutive effect from the Chief Executive officer July 2009 equity placing.
We use adjusted gures as key performance measures, and these The year has seen improved trading are stated principally before amortisation on acquired intangible assets, exceptional restructuring charges and acquisition related performance, with 2% organic revenue costs, and disposal gains and losses.
Including these items, growth against a 6% decline last year.
reported operating profit and pre-tax profit were 39% and 77% higher in sterling and 45% and 84% higher in euros, reecting Increased spend on product development no intangible asset and goodwill impairment and much lower and sales & marketing was largely offset exceptional charges as our major restructuring programmes completed, with charges in 2010 relating to Reed Business by cost efficiency gains.
Reported earnings per share were 58% higher at 27.3p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 62% higher at 0.51 for During 2010, we also made good progress against the key priorities Reed Elsevier NV.
we outlined for each of the businesses at the start of the year.
In Elsevier, subscription renewals for 2010 were completed in line The Elsevier science and medical business 46% of adjusted with our expectations and the renewals process for 2011 is well operating profit saw modest growth reecting a constrained progressed.
We continued to develop new content and innovative customer budget environment.
Elsevier has continued to develop tools, including the launch of SciVerse, an integrated platform innovative new content and tools, with the initial launch in 2010 for researchers.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions captured the benefit of SciVerse, an integrated platform for accessing ScienceDirect, of increased market activity and growing demand for data and Scopus and scientific web content.
Also launched in beta version is analytics.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional added new features and the SciVerse Application Marketplace which facilitates collaboration content sets, including the initial launch of Lexis Advance for Solos, across the scientific community in the development of customised the first of a series of tools for specic legal segments.
Effective from search and discovery applications.
Further institutional planning January 2011, we reorganised LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Legal & and performance tools are also being developed to help academic Professional to operate as separate businesses, reporting directly to and government institutions evaluate their research performance me, to sharpen the management focus on their respective markets.
In Health Sciences, the focus Reed Exhibitions signicantly stepped up its launch programme of development is in clinical decision support point-of-care solutions, with 35 new shows, particularly targeting high growth sectors clinical practice guidelines and predictive analytics to address and emerging markets and continued to invest in technology the demand to make healthcare more efficient and to improve and innovation.
Within Reed Business Information, we reshaped medical outcomes.
the portfolio, signicantly reduced costs, and invested behind the successful data services business, including in early January this LexisNexis 38% of adjusted operating profit returned to overall year the acquisition of a majority share in the leading petrochemical revenue growth, with strong growth in the risk business.
Subscription and energy information service CBI China.
revenues in the legal business continued to reect the lower levels of law rm activity and employment.
Adjusted operating margin was Financial results lower due to the weaker revenues and increased spending in the Total revenues were at at 6,055m up 4% to 7,084m and down legal business on new product development, related infrastructure 1% at constant currencies, as the portfolio was reshaped through and sales & marketing.
disposal and closure, most notably in Reed Business Information.
Importantly on an underlying basis, excluding acquisitions and In the risk solutions business, strong growth in the insurance divestments, revenues returned to growth, up 2%, reecting both business is supported by high transactional activity in the US auto the progress against our business priorities made during the year and property markets.
A continuous pipeline of new data and and our more cyclical markets stabilising.
analytics products also drives growth, ranging from helping insurers better assess underwriting risk to reducing cost and improving the Adjusted operating profit was lower by 1% at 1,555m up 3% at effectiveness of the insurers workow, from initial potential customer contact to policy renewal.
Recently introduced products include 1,819m and down 2% at constant currencies: on an underlying Data Pre-Fill, which provides accurate information directly into the basis adjusted operating profit was down 1%.
Increased spend 6 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information insurance workow on customers, potential customers and their 40 shows in each of Brazil and China.
Reed Exhibitions also auto ownership, and Insurance Exchange, which is directed at continued to develop websites, analytics and other innovative improving the efficiency and transparency of communications online tools to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of events between insurance agents, brokers and carriers through the sharing for both exhibitors and attendees.
Reed Business Information 6% of adjusted operating profit saw In the legal & professional business, continued good progress good growth in data services and online marketing solutions and is being made in the development of the next generation of legal signicantly moderated declines in advertising markets.
The portfolio was signicantly reshaped and refocused.
The sale and closure products and advanced operational infrastructure, which will be of the US controlled circulation magazines and certain other titles progressively introduced over the next few years.
2010 saw the initial were completed, together with the sale of clusters of titles in Europe market introduction, on version 1.0 of the new LexisNexis research and Asia.
The business was redened by asset group and clear, platform, of Lexis Advance for Solos, a legal research tool specically for US solo attorneys.
This is the first of a series of tools for specic distinct value creation plans were developed for each group.
segments of the legal market.
Features and content are also being We invested in data services and in January 2011, we increased our progressively added to existing services such as Lexis for Microsoft investment to a majority position in the leading petrochemical and Ofce, which enables lawyers to conduct their Lexis searches within energy information service in CBI China.
There was also a significant Microsoft applications, and LexisNexis Verdict & Settlement Analyzer, restructuring of the business with the consolidation of operations, which provides data and analytics on previous settlements.
In the procurement savings and tight cost control.
UK, LexisNexis continued to build out its practical guidance service LexisPSL, with the introduction of further practice areas, including The business and financial reviews set out in pages 8 to 37 describe company commercial.
The increased spend on supporting these in more detail our markets, businesses and the performance and important developments has in part been mitigated by continuing outlook by business.
cost efficiencies, including further outsourcing of production and engineering activities, supply chain management and operational Outlook streamlining.
Going forward we will continue to focus on creating value for our customers, in each business unit and across Reed Elsevier.
As we Reed Exhibitions 10% of adjusted operating profit saw good go into 2011, most of our markets are stable or improving and we revenue growth with the net cycling in of biennial exhibitions and are building on the actions taken in 2010 to strengthen the business a signicantly moderated decline in annual show revenues.
Overall, we expect a gradual recovery and a continued shows have seen overall success, with growing attendances at the improvement in performance.
majority of annual events and exhibitor numbers up 4% in the top 50 annual shows.
While recovery in the larger markets has taken longer We are focused on creating value for our professional customers to materialise, by contrast, the shows in China, Russia, the Middle through helping them to deliver better outcomes more efficiently.
East and Brazil grew strongly.
Reed Exhibitions signicantly stepped The business units have well dened priorities designed to capture up its launch programme in 2010 with 35 new events of which growth and deliver good returns targeting high growth markets 14 were in Asia, including the successful Cloud Computing show in supported by a commitment to new product development and Japan, and the PAX East games event in Boston.
Reed Exhibitions increased sales & marketing.
Across Reed Elsevier, we enhance now operates nearly 100 shows in emerging markets with approximately these initiatives through the building and leveraging of institutional skills, including professional customer analysis and product development, knowledge, methods and people as well as sharing resources in software, technology and infrastructure.
We have a strong management team in place, with a sharpened Revenue by format focus on value creation and operational execution.
Our employees are knowledgeable and passionate about the customers they serve and are critical to achieving our goals over the coming years.
I would like to thank them for their continuing enthusiasm and commitment 25% to our customers and to creating value for Reed Elsevier.
64% 14% Erik Engstrom Chief Executive officer 61% 14% 22% 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Completion of Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct training Electronic Face to face Print We prioritise employee ethics training Reed Elsevier has seen a significant migration from print as part of our ongoing commitment products to electronic content and tools over the last to implementing the highest standards 93% 93% ten years, so that print revenues now account for only of corporate and individual behaviour 25% of revenues.
across Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 7
