Chief Executive Officers review of operations Introduction 2010 turned out to be another challenging year for The Our core objective continues to Restaurant Group, partly due to factors that we had be growth in shareholder value anticipated and partly as a result of some that we had not.
and our strategy to achieve this Although the UK economic recovery gained momentum is to build a business capable of during the year, the backdrop for domestic consumer-facing businesses remained difficult.
As anticipated, consumer delivering long-term, sustainable confidence was fragile as a result of a number of factors and growing cashflows.
including the shock from the recession, ongoing tighter credit conditions, levels of unemployment and the fear of unemployment, inflation, higher taxes and negative real earnings growth.
2010 also threw up two unexpected challenges the Eyjafjallajkull volcano ash cloud in April and one of the worst winters on record at the end of the year.
Both of these unusual meteorological events caused significant disruption to our business and, although we were able to take some mitigating actions, adversely impacted sales and profits.
Notwithstanding those challenges, the Group continued to make further good progress increasing sales, profits and cash flow.
Both of our divisions performed well, with our Leisure division delivering a solid increase in profits and our Concessions division delivering a significant profit increase.
Margins also held up well with both EBITDA and operating margins improving on the previous year.
Total sales were 7% ahead of the previous year like-for-like sales were 1% below and adjusted earnings per share increased by 14%.
Against a challenging backdrop this represents an impressive performance and bodes well for the future.
The TRG business model and rationale Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing cash flows.
The Group has a consistent record of converting profits into cash at a very healthy rate, and delivering increasing cash flows each year, and in 2010 this was again the case.
TRGs business model enables the Group to grow in a predominantly organic and highly valueaccretive way, funded from its internally generated funds.
Our touchstones are cash flow and return on investment.
This model enables our shareholders to enjoy the benefits of high returns on capital, growth in profits and cash flow and sizeable income distributions from our progressive dividend policy.
06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Occupying leading market positions Our key criteria in determining where to invest our capital is In the meantime, we will continue to identify and judiciously to operate restaurants in locations with high barriers to entry, pursue other opportunities which we are confident will meet good growth prospects and where we are confident that we our returns criteria.
This is likely to mean that new openings can secure high returns on investment.
Our focus is on edge for 2011 will be at a broadly similar level to last years and, for of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport locations the time being, we plan to continue to apply our surplus cash and we occupy leading market positions in these segments.
flow towards reducing net debt: this fell by a further 20m over the past year to 47m.
The footprint that the Group occupies in edge and out of town leisure and airport locations is comprehensive and, from Results Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items a market positioning perspective, very formidable.
It would refer to note 2 be virtually impossible to replicate this footprint from scratch and the Group is well placed to continue to roll out more TRGs trading metrics performed well for the 53 week period new restaurants.
to 2 January 2011: Total sales increased by 7% like-for-like sales were Capital expenditure and TRG opening programme 1% lower and we sold 37 million meals: Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains Adjusted EBITDA increased by 8% to 86m: consistent we focus on cash generation and on securing Adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 12% to 56m: a return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRGs weighted Group operating profit margins increased by 40bp to average cost of capital.
We have continued to apply the 12.6%: and same levels of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, Net debt, at 0.55x Group adjusted EBITDA, fell by 20m experience and risk adjustment to each capital project to 47m.
This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to deviate from it.
Our free cash flow generation is sufficient to enable the Group to fund 35 to 45 new restaurants per annum whilst maintaining maintenance capital expenditure at the appropriate level and pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
However, the level of new development activity particularly edge and out of town developments within our sector is still well below the levels we saw prior to the onset of the recession.
At this stage of the economic cycle this is not unusual and whilst there has been a pick up in new development activity in some sectors, this has not yet gathered pace within our sector.
However, there is a significant number of schemes that developers have in the pipeline and we are confident that, at some point, these will be activated.
The catalysts for this are likely to be evidence of the consumer marketplace returning to steady growth and appropriate funding being available.
At this stage it is difficult to predict when this might be but, if the pattern of previous economic recoveries is followed, it is likely to be within the next two years.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 07 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Pub restaurants 43 units Leisure Pub restaurants traded well during 2010, increasing margins 2010 2009 and profits.
We have continued our programme of modifying the former Blubeckers sites to bring them more into line with Total revenue 373.7m 353.6m the Brunning & Price style of operation and the subsequent Operating profit 72.9m 69.1m results have been very encouraging.
We expect to complete 19.5% this programme during 2011.
In December we opened a new Operating margin 19.5% pub restaurant, the Nevill Crest & Gun, near Tunbridge Wells.
Frankie & Bennys 197 units It is trading superbly and is set to deliver strong returns.
Frankie & Bennys performed well in 2010, increasing During 2011 we expect to open 2-3 new pub restaurants.
We opened nine new restaurants of which five were on non-cinema sites.
All of Garfunkels 23 units our new openings are trading superbly and are set to deliver Garfunkels performed superbly during 2010 delivering strong returns.
Our focus continues to be directed towards a significant increase in margins and profits.
The business providing our customers with a great dining experience trades predominantly in Central London close to theatres, plenty of choice across the price points, offerings geared shopping districts and other tourist attractions.
During the towards specific parts of the day, good value and superb year we opened two new restaurants and these are trading hospitality and service.
As with all our brands, we eschewed well and are set to deliver strong returns.
We expect to open deep discounting and this helped to deliver a strong margin up to three new Garfunkels restaurants during 2011. and profit performance.
We anticipate opening between 12 and 15 new Frankie & Bennys restaurants in 2011.
Chiquito 68 units Chiquito performed solidly during 2010 although profits were a little below the prior years level.
During the year we absorbed input cost increases in order to maintain menu prices at a level appropriate for the locations in which most of our Chiquito restaurants operate.
We opened five new Consistently Chiquito restaurants during the year all of which are located alongside Frankie & Bennys.
This dual roll out strategy has worked well and we expect it to continue in 2011.
The new good value, openings are performing ahead of our expectations and are set to deliver strong returns.
During 2011 we expect to open service and 3-4 new Chiquito restaurants.
hospitality 08 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Sticking to our areas of expertise We occupy the leading market position in the UK airports and Concessions 58 units have a consistent track record of delivering excellent results.
2010 2009 As economic growth resumes, we anticipate an improving trend in pax and this will benefit our Concessions business.
Total revenue 92.0m 82.2m During the year we opened seven new sites these are Operating profit 14.2m 11.0m trading well and are set to deliver good returns.
We expect Operating margin 15.5% 13.4% to open between two and four new concessions sites in 2011.
Our Concessions business, despite having to cope with declining passenger numbers pax and exceptional meteorological events, had an excellent year and delivered a record level of profits.
Trading in the airports marketplace remained tough in 2010 with pax declining for a third year albeit at a much slower rate of decline compared to 2009.
Our efforts have been focused on improving our offering, high levels of customer service and tight cost controls with the objective of improving margins and growing profits.
This approach served us well during 2010 and the Concessions division produced a record level of EBITDA 18.8m and profits of 14.2m, representing an increase of 29% on the previous year.
Our ability to operate effectively and profitably in this market segment, and in challenging conditions, demonstrates our high levels of expertise and our commitment to the airports marketplace.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 09 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Market dynamics and the economy The government has committed to significant changes in For most people, eating out has become a habitual activity spending and taxation and the impact of these will be felt and is something that they are reluctant to give up.
A large part of the fiscal squeeze is being the challenging economic conditions that have characterised effected through spending cuts which, in real terms, look the UK since 2008, the propensity for people to eat away quite deep although these are less draconian in nominal from their homes has continued.
This is a secular trend, terms.
It is likely that these cuts will have an impact upon driven largely by socio-economic factors.
Eating out employment levels in the public sector and, potentially, constitutes a small ticket item which absorbs a relatively those parts of the private sector where there is a high level small proportion of disposable income.
We expect this of dependency upon government contracts.
There is trend to continue and this augurs well for the future.
a clear expectation that the slack which this may create will be absorbed by the private sector.
Certainly, corporations During 2010, our sector continued to be characterised have significantly stepped up capital spending, and many by significant and often deep discounting.
Buy One Get exporters are thriving, which should be positive for One Free and similar types of promotions have been employment.
However, expectations for growth in consumer commonplace and continue to be used frequently by many spend are, in the short-term, more modest.
Our approach has been to avoid the several factors impacting consumer spend, including higher deep discounting treadmill, rather, to give our customers levels of taxation both direct and indirect, unemployment consistently good value, service and hospitality and to levels approaching 8% the fear of unemployment also broaden the audience of potential customers, predominantly remains a concern for many UK households and rising through increased use of digital marketing techniques.
This latter point has become very During 2010 we significantly increased marketing across topical recently and conventional wisdom would suggest social networking websites, e-marketers and smartphone an increase in interest rates to counter inflation.
However, applications and these have had a positive impact on it appears that, as the economic recovery is still in its early revenues.
This approach has meant that we have continued stages and with the inflation indices being significantly to focus on maintaining and improving margins, growing impacted by VAT increases and imported inflation, the profits and cash flows and, very importantly, securing high Monetary Policy Committee MPC appears inclined to returns on our invested capital.
maintain a relaxed monetary stance, perhaps in part to reduce the risk of precipitating a sharp slowdown in As the UK climbs out of recession, the macro-economic economic growth with the concomitant risk of deflation.
Although it is not an immediately If interest rates rise only modestly and mortgage rates attractive landscape it is a much less dark and bleak scenario remain at low levels this will, to a significant degree, continue than the one faced at the beginning of 2009.
The UK has to support households discretionary spend levels and, started to emerge from the deepest recession seen for providing employment levels do not deteriorate, this should several generations and, although during the final quarter enable consumer confidence to build.
Initially this is likely of 2010 the recovery lost some traction mainly due to the to be gradual, although once it becomes evident that severe UK weather, the pattern seems to be following unemployment levels are not dramatically increasing a broadly similar trend to that seen in the early 1990s.
and as the fear of unemployment diminishes the recovery in consumer confidence should gather pace.
10 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements A robust and well proven business model Cost inflation also poses challenges for our sector: although By so doing, our aims are to continue to strengthen our this is not a new phenomenon.
During much of the last market positions and deliver long-term and sustainable decade, our sector often experienced cost pressures profitable growth.
especially with the significant annual increases in the minimum wage and in 2007 and 2008 food input costs The difficulties our team faced during 2010 were significant increased quite quickly.
Currently there is relatively low but, as always, our people rose to the challenge and delivered wage cost pressure, but also some risk that inflationary a very impressive performance.
We are very fortunate expectations could feed through into UK wage bargaining.
to have an outstanding and loyal team at TRG and I am Commodity prices including food and oil have risen and confident that they will be working towards delivering another this trend is expected to continue.
TRGs approach has, for strong performance this year.
The current year has started several years, been to protect the business from rising input well, with like-for-like sales growing in each of the first two costs by taking out fixed or capped price contracts with months and, after nine weeks, total sales are 8% ahead of suppliers.
At present over 50% of our input costs have fixed last year like-for-like sales up 3%.
We are looking to build or capped prices for one year, and approximately one third further on this as the year progresses.
are fixed or capped for two years.
This approach has served us well and is one that we intend to continue.
Andrew Page Chief Executive Officer Future prospects 9 March 2011 We are planning on the basis that the outlook for consumer-facing businesses continues to remain as challenging during 2011 as it was last year and we have framed our plans accordingly.
Our business has experienced some very tough trading conditions over the past two years and during that time sales, profits and cash flow all grew.
TRG is well placed to cope with challenging conditions and, very importantly, to benefit substantially from the upturn in consumer confidence that will, in due course, prevail.
TRGs businesses command strong market positions in each of our chosen segments and our brands are well recognised for the quality and value of our offerings.
We have a robust and well proven business model, a strong balance sheet and we are well positioned to continue our expansion.
Just as we did in 2010, during 2011 we will continue to: Stick to our areas of expertise: Focus on our customers by providing excellent value and service: M aintain high standards of operational efficiency and execution: Carefully control our costs: Add high quality new restaurants to our portfolio: and Continue to focus on cash flow and returns.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 11
