12 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report chief executives review 2010 was a year of focusing on the fundamentals controlling costs, optimising cash and improving our return on capital employed.
Before turning our attention to the longer term, and thoughts of expansion, we needed to strengthen our foundations today in order to create a solid platform for growth tomorrow.
You will see in the operating and financial reviews on pages 20 to 25 and 26 to 33 respectively that this focus delivered excellent results for the year: record profit and cash performances, resulting in return on capital employed ROCE of over 12% and a strengthened balance sheet.
These results allow us to consider the future from a stronger position than a year ago.
Our vision is to be the best global consumer packaging company, with the aim of enhancing shareholder value.
This will be delivered through the generation of profitable revenue growth slightly above GDP which, together with operational cost efficiencies, will drive an improved ROCE.
In the next three years, our target is to achieve Group ROCE in a range of 12% to 15%.
our vision We will maintain a focus on the key factors for success.
Strong customer and supplier relationships are necessary to consolidate and grow sales, including in new markets.
Operational excellence Our vision is to be the best global consumer is essential if we are going to utilise our assets effectively and efficiently, to make the best choices regarding our portfolio of packaging company.
This means balancing operations and to innovate.
And, to achieve the best performance, profitable revenue growth, cash generation we need the best people working in a winning organisation.
In this annual report there are a number of case studies that illustrate our and the appropriate risk profile for the progress in these areas.
Group to deliver an improving return on Underpinning everything we do are the Rexam Way values: continuous improvement, recognition, teamwork and trust.
These capital and a steady increase in profits core values reflect who we are, and how we want to approach year on year.
each other and everyone we deal with.
They are aligned with the Rexam leadership practices which have been developed to drive Graham Chipchase enhanced performance throughout the organisation.
chief executive These common values and practices unite us.
We are nurturing throughout the Company a sense of One Rexam that the whole of Rexam is greater than the sum of the individual parts.
This will be key to achieving our vision.
13 We delivered an excellent set of results in 2010, with record profits and cash flow, improved ROCE and we strengthened our balance sheet.
Graham Chipchase chief executive creating value going forward achieving best performance driving operational excellence The best does not mean the largest, nor does it mean the fastest This element of our strategy is about a lot more than manufacturing growing in a particular time period.
We believe it means efficiencies.
Our record on cost savings and on safety are world balancing profitable revenue growth, cash generation and the class but we can always improve further.
We shall continue to appropriate risk profile for the Group to deliver strong returns enhance our performance through leveraging operational and and a steady increase in profits year on year.
It is also about business best practices across the Group, and will seek to improve ensuring that across our operations we excel commercially and our environmental performance every year.
We aim to deliver operationally, and that we secure the long term future of Rexam consistently improved results using consistently reduced resources.
by developing a sustainable business model which will stand the test of time.
strengthening customer and supplier relationships building a winning organisation Deep and sustainable relationships with our customers and This means fostering a culture which enables the achievement of all suppliers are critical to creating a sustainable business and aspects of our Group strategy.
It is about the way we work together delivering excellent financial results.
Our customer base across the businesses and functions as one team, our shared Rexam predominantly comprises large international and regional Way values and culture, and a common understanding of our consumer products companies who are frequently considered best purpose and goals with our people having the right skills and in their class.
They focus mainly on quality, service and cost, often tools to be the best.
looking to align themselves with partners who truly understand their business needs and can meet their global and local requirements.
They also require their suppliers to demonstrate a true understanding of future trends affecting their businesses, and an ability to innovate.
We cannot do this without support from our own suppliers we need to work in partnership with them too.
best performance speed counts Cycle time is a key measure of operational excellence in injection moulding.
Our plastic packaging operations target improvement in this measure using training and education to optimise injection process techniques.
If the results of a pilot exercise at Healthcares Brookville, Pennsylvania, facility are any indication, the programme is bearing fruit.
Upon completion of the training, which included best practice sharing of improvement techniques and process development software, the Brookville team delivered a 10% reduction in overall cycle time on 27 of their moulds.
In addition to faster machines, they are seeing improved quality and reduction in waste, which also supports our key efficiency and sustainability objectives.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 14 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report chief executives review improving returns going forward improve asset utilisation increased focus on innovation Prior to the global economic downturn, we had invested in For us to succeed, our customers need to view Rexam as being increased capacity in much of the business.
In 2009, with demand at the forefront of the packaging industry, and as a committed falling, our returns declined as volumes reduced.
We have largely partner with an established track record of delivering value through reversed this trend and, looking forward, we believe the balance innovative products, services and processes.
We have a history between our asset base and projected demand augurs well.
In our of innovation ranging in the past few years from our development beverage can operations, recent contract negotiations confirm that of the Sleek can launched initially in North America in 2003, we shall see improved capacity utilisation in Europe and Asia, but now available to customers throughout our global operations, while in North America we know that in the medium term the through to 2007s launch of the one litre King Can in Russia and balance between capacity and expected volumes will benefit from the XD11 fine mist pump, through to 2010s commercial launch of the diversification of our customer base.
We shall continue to invest the Fusion aluminium bottle and the Novelia preservative free in South America to meet demand.
In our plastic packaging multidose eyedropper.
We will continue to develop our market businesses, we have restructured the operations, taking out fixed insight and to invest in innovation and new product development.
costs, so we shall reap greater benefits from the improved momentum in the economy, especially in Personal Care.
manage portfolio further expansion in emerging markets We constantly review all aspects of the business to evaluate While we already have some 30% of our sales in emerging whether the constituent parts add value to the whole.
We seek markets, we believe the proportion of our business in the a balanced portfolio of operations, which together deliver steady developing world with faster, albeit at times more risky, growth profitable revenue growth and improved returns the highly prospects can be higher.
Our cash generative operations are in cash generative businesses, often with slower growth rates, a position to underpin an increased presence in emerging markets.
underpinning the faster growing operations.
As part of our review We shall move gradually down this path identifying organic of returns across the Group, we are currently marketing the capital investment opportunities, forming joint ventures with beverage and specialty operations of the Closures division knowledgeable local partners and, in time, looking to make bolt for disposal.
on acquisitions with good growth and high return profiles.
We are not expecting any transformational activity, but rather a steady progress in increasing the proportion of our sales in these attractive growth markets.
operational excellence optimising assets 2010 was a remarkable year for our Brazilian can operations.
With the market growing at 18%, can making capacity was stretched to the full.
To manage this increase, we focused on our manufacturing processes to squeeze more out of our assets.
Day by day, month by month production records were beaten and by year end we had made 500 million more cans than the previous year with minimal investment in new equipment equivalent to the production of an extra line.
What we did invest in was the integration and alignment of the manufacturing teams and best practice exchange between the local plants and sister plants in North America.
The keys to success were a commitment to safety and our people channeling all their energy in the same direction to create an environment of cooperation and engagement.
15 key performance indicators 2011 and going forward As indicated in last years annual report, we have taken the opportunity of reviewing the range of key performance indicators KPIs we shall report going forward.
Some of our historic KPIs will remain in place, but importantly we have identified certain other measures which relate directly to our long term plans.
Although 2011 will be a year for collating base data for some of these measures, we believe it is important to share now what the ongoing KPIs will be: best performance customer and supplier relationships Organic sales growth Customer satisfaction score Underlying operating profit growth Emerging markets sales as a percentage of total sales Free cash flow Investment in research and new product development Return on capital employed net assets operational excellence winning organisation Annual cost savings and efficiencies Employee engagement survey score Lost time accident rate LTAR Rexam incident rate RIR Values and leadership practices score Emissions millions of metric tonnes CO2 equivalent Training and development spend as a percentage of payroll Existing KPI.
2010 For 2010, we continued to use the historic range of KPIs to measure our performance, and they are set out below: 1 1 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 shareholder value 2 Sales m 4,962 4,866 4,618 3,611 3,301 2 Underlying operating profit m 535 446 466 354 375 2 Underlying earnings per share p 32.8 25.4 31.5 24.9 31.7 Free cash flow m 316 290 128 24 173 Ordinary dividends per share p 12.0 8.0 18.7 17.8 16.9 Capital expenditure gross m 206 184 389 311 214 3 Return on capital employed % 12.3 9.5 11.0 11.9 15.6 2 Underlying operating profit margin % 10.8 9.2 10.1 9.8 11.4 2 Annual cost efficiencies and savings m 39 42 35 32 28 safety 4 Lost time accident rate LTAR 0.30 0.63 0.76 1.13 1.12 Plants verified against appropriate international standards plants 41 40 42 34 environment Significant uncontrolled or abnormal releases releases nil nil nil nil 1 6 5 Emissions CO2e tm 1.17 1.23 1.24 Plants verified against appropriate international standards plants 48 46 37 32 1 Sales and underlying performance exclude the Glass business which was sold in 2007.
2 Underlying business performance is continuing and discontinued operations excluding Glass before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangibles and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
3 Underlying operating profit plus share of associates profit after tax divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders equity after adding back retirement benefit obligations net of tax and net borrowings.
4 LTAR restated as the number of lost time accidents x 200,000 total hours worked.
5 Carbon Disclosure Project baseline year.
6 2009 restated for new greenhouse gas conversion factors issued by UK Department for Environmental, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in October 2010. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
