Chief executives statement Strong momentum and value adding growth From a position of increased strength and with growth firmly on our agenda, we are making significant progress towards our vision of global sector leadership.
Tom Albanese 2010 saw Rio Tinto move steadily towards its vision of global sector Strategy leadership, recording exceptional performance and creating a Our strategy has remained absolutely consistent to invest in clear pathway for sustainable growth.
and operate large, long term, cost competitive mines and assets, We are now financially stronger and have greater optionality, driven not by the choice of commodity but rather by the quality thanks to significant progress with our divestment programme, of each opportunity.
efficiencies derived from our business transformation initiatives To achieve this, we focus on a portfolio of Tier 1 assets diversified by and record annual production in our iron ore business.
This approach has underpinned Improved pricing and market conditions also enhanced our flexibility our ability to overcome the challenges of previous years.
I am greatly and enabled us to approve US$11 billion in major capital projects encouraged by the Groups performance, which is a testament to our during 2010.
Growth is firmly on our agenda.
focus on creating shareholder value in the long term.
These achievements are a credit to the 77,000 employees who 2010 objectives work for Rio Tinto across the world and I would like to thank As a result of the investments announced during the year, we have them for their ongoing commitment.
significantly enhanced our global presence in key operational areas.
In 2010, we increased our focus on operational efficiency and In 2010, to support the execution of our strategy, we focused risk management, with a particular emphasis on compliance and the business on five short term priorities: operational delivery: continuous improvement.
Running operations which are safe, prudent balance sheet management: pursuing our growth path: reliable and injury and illness free is our number one priority.
completing the proposed Western Australian iron ore production We are proud to have improved our safety record, with an joint venture: and strengthening our relationship with China.
18 per cent decrease in the all injury frequency rate.
However, I must record with sorrow the deaths of three people in our I am pleased to say we made significant progress in almost all managed facilities.
We have increased our focus on process and contractor safety, Our focus on operational delivery helped us break production records.
remaining absolutely committed to safety in the workplace.
We We took steps to optimise our financial position and, as a result, our are determined to achieve zero harm in all of our operations.
We grew organically, reflecting confidence in our business and the outlook for our markets.
All injury frequency rate The cessation of our plans to form a Western Australian iron ore Per 200,000 hours worked production joint venture with BHP Billiton was a disappointment, Including former Alcan but we respect the regulators views.
We remain focused on a more 1.21 than 50 per cent expansion of our iron ore business in the Pilbara, 1.09 leveraging our world class assets and organisational capability.
0.66 0.95 We began 2010 with a difficult period in China, but went on to 2009: 0.81 0.81 make significant progress in developing stronger ties there.
In 0.66 March 2010, four employees based in Shanghai were convicted of receiving bribes and obtaining commercial secrets.
This disappointing and unacceptable behaviour violated the Groups strong ethical culture as well as Chinese law, hence their employment was terminated.
The independent forensic investigation found that any illegal activities were conducted entirely outside the Groups systems.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 10 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information We also looked towards the future.
In July, we signed a joint venture Financial recovery agreement with Chalco for the development and operation of the We will meet that demand from a strong financial position.
Simandou iron ore project in Guinea and we continue to have In the past year we have transformed the Groups balance sheet.
discussions with the Government of Guinea.
At the end of the Our robust operating performance, including record annual year, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Chinalco to production in iron ore, led to record cash flows and underlying establish a landmark exploration joint venture in China, and also earnings in 2010.
We completed a number of disposals, making agreed to extend our Channar Mining joint venture in the Pilbara asset sales totalling US$4.2 billion in 2010.
This takes the total with our partner, Sinosteel Corporation.
divestments completed since 2008 to more than US$11 billion In a year of considerable progress across the Group, several and largely completes the disposal programme launched in 2007. projects stand out: our iron ore expansion plans in the Pilbara: Achieving our vision our increased interest in the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project in Mongolia and the signing of an agreement to become the With a focus on organic growth, we will also consider strategic development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi: and progress merger and acquisition opportunities of moderate size that fit towards modernising and expanding our Canadian aluminium our overall direction and help us achieve our vision.
At the end of the year we announced a recommended As we move into 2011 we have established a longer term vision offer for Riversdale Mining Limited, which, if successful, would for global sector leadership, reflecting the long term nature of our provide us with a substantial Tier 1 coking coal development business.
Our strategy and business model are explained in detail pipeline in Mozambique.
This is an example of the small to on p18.
medium sized acquisitions that we are currently focused on.
The people who make it all happen A strong framework for sustainable development We are fortunate in the Group that our geographic spread gives Wherever we operate, whatever we do, sustainable development us access to the skills and talents of a highly diverse workforce.
Our sustainable development approach gives But there is much more we have to do and we have set ambitious governments confidence that we will develop resources in a way plans to foster greater diversity.
that will benefit their economies and communities and will protect their environments.
It is our policy to offer our employees career opportunities that are rewarding and stimulating with real opportunities for personal The mining and natural resource sector occupies an increasingly and professional development.
For example, training and recruitment strategic and exposed position in the thinking of governments programmes are under way in a number of countries in which and other stakeholders.
While these factors can lead to tensions, we have embarked on major development opportunities.
These with effective management, new opportunities will emerge.
include Madagascar, Mongolia and Guinea.
Through proactive leadership, and by building relationships with all our stakeholders, we can turn this area of challenge We recognise that given our ambitious growth plans, our and complexity into a source of competitive advantage.
recruitment challenge will be substantial, particularly in some We will continue to show leadership in areas such as employee of our more competitive labour markets.
We will not fulfil this health and safety: community engagement: and in global issues vital requirement without a concerted effort to make Rio Tinto the to the future of the worlds environment such as carbon, water use employer of choice, something we are committed to achieving.
I want to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders, my leadership team and all of our employees across the world.
It has Well placed to meet rising demand been a year of exceptional performance and momentum, which Prices for many of our products recovered during the year driven was truly a team effort.
I am looking forward to building principally by demand growth in China and the OECD countries.
Iron ore and copper prices were particularly strong.
While government stimulus measures generally supported a gradual In a world of increasing commodity demand and growing return to normalised global trade, the improvement in developed sustainable development challenges I believe Rio Tinto will economies faded slightly during the latter part of 2010. set itself apart through its leadership in operational delivery, exploration, technology and innovation and sustainable We believe the recovery momentum of the major economies will development to become the preferred industry partner remain uncertain and volatile as the impact of the fiscal and and developer.
Therefore, we remain cautious about the short term view of the economy.
Globally, we expect GDP growth in 2011 to continue at broadly healthy levels of around 4.5 per cent.
However, the pace of economic recovery will vary between the different markets we supply.
In the longer term, we believe the fundamentals are strong, but we will not be complacent.
Much of the anticipated growth in Tom Albanese, chief executive demand for minerals will be driven by China and other emerging economies.
Implementation of our established strategy will enable us to take advantage of increasing demand from these fast growing regions.
