Business review ChIeF exeCutIVeS ReVIew Rolls-Royce has maintained progress.
our financial position was further strengthened in 2010. this is my fifteenth and final Chief executives review, and shareholders while at the same time we have invested so it is a particular pleasure to report that Rolls-Royce has more than 4 billion in the business.
total Shareholder delivered a strong performance in 2010 despite Return tSR during this period has been 27 per cent, challenging economic conditions.
which compares to an average tSR of four per cent for the FtSe all Share index.
underlying revenue has grown seven per cent to 10.9 billion and underlying profit before tax has Investing for the long term increased by four per cent to 955 million.
our financial during 2010, we have continued our programme of position has also continued to improve with average net investment, funding world-class facilities in all major cash balances reaching 960 million, an improvement of geographies, providing capacity for future growth, 325 million over the same period in 2009. this contributing to improved productivity and delivering demonstrates once again the strength and resilience of products with operational lives which may well extend to the group and the progress that we have made in recent half a century.
we remain confident in our ability to years.
It is a measure of this progress that the civil, double revenues in the coming decade through organic defence and marine businesses now each generate growth alone.
however, we also have the management underlying profits of more than 300 million.
and financial capability to accelerate growth through acquisition and partnership.
I was an early pessimist about the condition of the world economy and I expect to be a late optimist.
the situation Strategy remains fragile, recovery has been asymmetric and the our consistent strategy, applied over many years, has global financial system retains the capacity to surprise helped deliver a more broadly based, better balanced and unpleasantly.
however, our consistent investment in a more resilient portfolio.
this strategy has five key broad portfolio of products and services and our strong elements: customer relationships have given us access to a wide address four global markets, civil aerospace, defence range of global markets.
aerospace, marine and energy: invest in technology, infrastructure and capability: this breadth has allowed Rolls-Royce to maintain develop a competitive portfolio of products and progress through the downturn and the disruption to the services: world economy which began in 2007.
Since then the grow market share and our installed product base: and business has grown its order book, revenues, profits and add value for customers through the provision of average net cash, and increased payments to product-related services.
04 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review we have high barriers to entry as a result of the and asia.
we continue to invest in improving our technology required for the design, systems integration, supply chain management, to integrate these suppliers 59.2bn manufacture and support of our products.
In addition we into our worldwide operations and to improve our order book work hard to transfer intellectual property, products and quality and capabilities.
innovation across businesses to achieve competitive advantage in the markets which we serve.
Our business today our business is conducted through four major customer An increasingly global business focused businesses: the business today is the consequence of decisions and investments made over many years.
when I first joined Civil aerospace the Company in 1984, Rolls-Royce had a narrow product we have seen signs of recovery in the civil aerospace range and its business was mainly uK focused with some sector, although the strength of this recovery varies presence in the uS.
this position has changed between regions.
Nonetheless, we have continued to fundamentally.
we are now able to trade successfully on a sign significant new orders, particularly with customers global basis and are developing our presence around the based in asia and the middle east.
this brings us closer to customers and allows us individual orders worth more than 1 billion from China access to funding and skills.
our customer insight and our and the middle east.
In all, new orders amounted to ability to develop technologies and integrate them into 7.5 billion during 2010, demonstrating the continued 38.73p complex power systems, give us access to markets where confidence of our customers in our portfolio.
underlying earnings per demand remains strong for the products and services ordinary share that we provide.
the two new members of the trent family continued their development programmes through 2010. the trent 1000 the decision to locate the head office of our marine is powering the boeing 787 on the aircrafts flight test business in Singapore will have a profound impact on our schedule.
the engine for the airbus a350 xwb, which is ability to develop a global view.
we now manage about due to enter service in 2013, ran for the first time in June.
one third of our revenue from Singapore, a further third this promises to be the most successful member of the from North america and the balance from the united trent family with 1,150 engines already on order.
this means that management the portfolio, our order book requires us to more than teams, running businesses that in themselves are the size double our output of trent engines by the middle of of FtSe 100 companies, will think about challenges and this decade.
this will be of huge benefit to the group as we respond to customer an uncontained disc release occurred on a trent 900 requirements and competition.
engine on board a Qantas operated airbus a380 in November 2010. this regrettable incident attracted In 2010, rapid progress was made in the construction of widespread attention.
uncontained disc failures happen our major new aerospace facilities at Crosspointe in the uS with a frequency of about once a year on the worlds to manufacture discs and at Seletar in Singapore where we large civil aircraft fleet.
however, this was the first time an will assemble and test large civil engines and manufacture event of this nature had occurred on a large civil wide-chord fan blades.
during the year, we also opened a Rolls-Royce engine since 1994. new mechanical test complex at dahlewitz in germany to conduct testing for our businesses worldwide.
the safety of our products is our highest priority and each time a serious incident happens Rolls-Royce and the we continue to expand our marine services.
we already aviation industry learns lessons.
these are embedded in have 34 facilities around the world and the network is the rigorous certification requirements, safety procedures growing fast, ensuring that our locations match our and standards of regulation which make flying an customers requirements.
of course our supply chain extraordinarily safe form of transport.
In line with this has also become increasingly global with around regime, Rolls-Royce worked closely with the regulators, 8,000 suppliers in North and South america, europe 05 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review airbus and our customers to put in place an effective continue to benefit from our investment in a broad inspection programme, to identify root cause and product and services portfolio, all of which have global to achieve a rapid return of the trent 900 fleet to applications.
In particular, we see growth opportunities normal operation.
in emerging economies in asia, the middle east and South america.
Marine the growth of our marine business over the past decade In the uK, the Strategic defence and Security Review has has been a major feature in the broadening of our impacted a number of long-standing programmes, portfolio.
In that time revenues have grown by six times, including the harrier jump jet, which was taken out of and we now have equipment on board 30,000 vessels.
service during 2010. however, new products and our this growth is a consequence of our focus on power substantial service activities will both ensure the systems integration for increasingly complex and resilience of this part of the defence business and create efficient vessels.
Rolls-Royce has a strong position in the offshore support New european collaborative ventures are progressing industry with production facilities in nine countries and a well and are expected to have a strong export market.
the acquisition of odIm aSa particular, the tp400 turboprop on the airbus a400m has during 2010, has added significantly to our systems now successfully completed 3,000 hours of flight testing.
capability and gives us greater access to the growing Rolls-Royce is also the leading supplier of engines for markets of seismic surveying and subsea deepwater transport aircraft globally, powering large fleets such as installation.
this will be particularly important as oil and the C-130, C-130J, Spartan C-27 and osprey V-22.
gas exploration moves into ever deeper waters, for instance in brazil, where more complex and capable In the uS, the government approved 2010 funding for the vessels are required.
development of the F136 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter.
we believe this is an important programme not our naval business secured a breakthrough order from just for the aircraft but to ensure competition and value the uS Navy to power ten littoral Combat Ships with for taxpayers and customers.
this represents the largest naval surface vessel contract the group has we are also involved in major research projects such as signed.
In the uK, all six type 45 destroyers for the Royal adoptive Versatile engine technology adVeNt, which is Navy have now been launched, equipped with our designed to significantly reduce fuel consumption.
these highly-efficient wR-21 gas turbine power system.
position us well for future military programmes.
In the merchant sector, our technology enables us to energy and nuclear respond to the growing demand for improved our energy business has two main activities.
these are environmental performance of marine engines.
as just supplying power to the oil and gas sector and the one example of this, in 2010 we signed a contract for the provision of power generation products and services.
worlds largest gas-powered ferry which will operate in the environmentally sensitive coastal waters of Norway, Rolls-Royce has been a major supplier of power systems fuelled by liquefied natural gas.
this technology for rigs and platforms since the earliest days of offshore oil dramatically reduces Co emissions and virtually and gas production.
our gas turbines and compressors 2 eliminates soot and sulphur emissions.
operate in harsh conditions and remote locations on behalf of major oil companies.
For example, our industrial Defence aerospace Rb211, avon and trent units are now employed on 60 our defence aerospace business is highly diversified with major pipelines around the world.
New discoveries and 160 customers in more than 100 countries.
despite the the associated distribution of their output are creating pressure on public spending in its traditional markets we strong demand for our products and services.
06 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review the power generation market continues to be restrained over the past five years the group has committed 150 by weak demand for electricity in our traditional markets.
million to this area alone.
our uK apprenticeship scheme however, we have secured significant new orders in has been awarded beacon Status by the office for emerging economies including India and Venezuela and Standards in education ofsted and we have schemes of we see good opportunities for long-term growth for both similar quality globally.
our gas turbine and reciprocating engine portfolio.
It is clear that future developments in this sector are likely to we benefit from the diversity that our global presence be driven by the need for affordable, efficient, distributed brings, recognising that a clear understanding of multi-fuel systems.
our gas turbine and reciprocating developing customer requirements, world-class engine portfolio provides a good basis to address technology and exceptional teamwork are the keys to our these markets.
In addition, over the past decade, the group has invested Prospects in new technologies such as tidal power and fuel cells.
the long-term disciplined application of our strategy has during 2010, we conducted a full scale test of a tidal created a broad portfolio of products, services and power turbine, anchored on the sea bed off the coast of capabilities that ensures a wide range of options for Scotland.
this has generated 500kw at full power and has future growth.
the expected doubling of revenue over been successfully linked into the national grid.
the next decade is underpinned by a record order book, which gives good visibility of the future, and a strong we continue to expand our activities in civil nuclear balance sheet which enables us to invest in the people, power generation.
during 2010, we secured contracts to technology and capability that will enhance provide nuclear safety systems in France and in China and competitiveness.
have developed supply relationships with reactor vendors and utilities both in the uK and globally.
these areas of In the short term we expect demand in some markets to investment enable us to address the particular remain subdued.
however, we have access to the faster requirements of low or zero carbon power generation growing global markets and our large installed base with solutions that build on our core capabilities.
allows us to benefit from an increasing emphasis on the services we can provide to our customers.
Strength through teamwork the successful development of our portfolio depends last September, when I announced my intention to retire, critically on world-class people and teamwork.
the I said there were three considerations that made me global nature of our business means that our people comfortable with my decision: I know Rolls-Royce is in a must work effectively across time zones, geographies strong position with more choices than we have had in and cultures.
of the 38,900 men and women we employ, the past: we have a world-class team: and I am confident 45 per cent are now based outside the uK.
this makes in the boards appointment of John Rishton as my communications and shared values critical.
he will be an outstanding Chief executive.
this year we built on the success of our annual strategy Rolls-Royce has been my working life for 27 years.
storyboard with a televised presentation to most of the wherever I have gone in the world, I have always been senior managers in the group.
the managers who proud to be Chief executive of this Company.
It has been attended this event have been responsible for presenting an extraordinary privilege to work with so many the storyboard to every employee of the group.
this has outstanding people and to contribute to the enabled people at all levels and in every location in the development of a business that has been at the forefront organisation to understand our objectives and to feed of engineering and technology for over 100 years.
I wish back their own thoughts.
Rolls-Royce, its employees and its shareholders continued success.
we believe that effective recruitment and continuous training are critical to our success.
this year, we recruited 220 apprentices and over 300 graduates from 25 Sir John Rose countries.
we devote significant resource to the Chief executive continuous development and training of our people.
February 9, 2011 07 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
