10 Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives review Contributing to our success this year have been our inbuilt resilience, our strong operational management and a strategy that serves the business equally well in good times and in bad.
I ended last years report by pointing to a testing period ahead.
Nonetheless, our inbuilt resilience and strong operational management have produced another successful year.
Our volume performance was solid and compared well with that of our competitors with share gains in some of our key markets.
On an organic basis, lager volumes for the year were level with the prior year while soft drinks volumes grew 2% on the same basis.
Firm pricing, an improving sales mix and a tight grip on costs delivered organic, constant currency EBITA growth of 6%.
The strength of our leading local brands stood us in good stead, supporting a 4% rise in group revenue on an organic, constant currency basis with all regions increasing their revenue per hectolitre.
We managed costs even more tightly, protecting profitability and, in some cases, funding increased marketing investment.
EBITA margin was up 30 basis points to 16.7% on the same basis.
Review of operations The most pleasing performer this year was Latin America where, despite difficult economic and trading conditions, our efforts to upgrade the beer category, build our brands and brand portfolios and win in the marketplace delivered 3% growth in lager volumes.
Growth resumed in Colombia towards the end of the year and EBITA margin rose 270 basis points.
In Peru, we improved our mix and pushed back the competition to regain market share.
Ecuador grew robustly, underpinned by the further development of sales and distribution.
Organic, constant currency EBITA for the region grew 17%.
Against a backdrop of severe economic conditions across the region, lager volumes in Europe fell 5%.
Nevertheless, we gained or held market share in Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic and Russia.
We were particularly pleased to increase our share of the premium market across our European business testimony to many years work in building brand equities.
Robust pricing, largely implemented in the prior year, along with cost efficiencies and the benefits of business restructuring contributed to constant currency EBITA growth of 4% and an organic, constant currency margin expansion of 60 basis points.
Graham Mackay Chief Executive Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives review 11 Were present in 75 countries on six continents.
Were also well rooted: 94% of our lager volume comes from countries in which were either number one or number two in terms of our market share.
North America delivered EBITA growth of 7% compared Our strategy with a prior year which included one quarters results from Our performance this year is largely the result of sticking the Miller Brewing Company.
Despite difficult economic to a strategy honed over many years and designed to 1 conditions, MillerCoors produced pro forma EBITA advance the business both in good times and in bad.
This was driven by favourable pricing, We measure our progress against our strategic priorities incremental synergy benefits of US$248 million and using a range of key performance indicators.
These are further savings in marketing and fixed costs, partly offset listed in the table on pages 22 to 23, along with our by pressures on commodity costs and lower volumes progress against each one.
over which to spread fixed costs.
On a pro forma basis, As markets evolve and the consumer and competitive domestic sales to wholesalers and retailers were both landscape changes, we review our various strategic down 2%.
priorities and adjust the relative emphases between them as indicated below.
Under our first priority, creating a balanced and attractive 6% global spread of businesses, we believe weve emerged strongly from the recent industry consolidation.
From 19% EBITA growth organic, constant currency in 2000, the worlds top four brewers now account for just under 50% of the market.
Having actively participated Beer markets in Africa were broadly resilient and lager in the process and sometimes led it were now volumes rose by 6%.
Our strategy of widening our present in 75 countries on six continents.
And as well as brand portfolios produced strong growth in the premium being widely spread, were well rooted: 94% of our lager category and further share gains in the affordable segment.
volume comes from countries in which we have either Investments in new breweries and extra capacity began number one or number two market share positions.
The opening of a new brewery in Mozambique, for example, contributed to sales growth of A further strength of our geographic portfolio is its 11% while Uganda expanded its capacity and saw volumes weighting towards developing countries.
We benefited from an excise tax reduction three years some 80% of group EBITA was attributable in Zambia but saw sales in Botswana negatively affected to developing or emerging markets.
With populations in by the social levy on alcohol introduced in November emerging markets set to expand rapidly in the period to 2008.
While organic, constant currency EBITA grew 2015, lager volumes are projected to show a compound by 4%, margins declined to 20.8% as a result of higher annual growth rate of over 2% in more than half the countries raw material costs caused by the depreciation of some in our portfolio and to exceed 5% in over a quarter of our local currencies and higher fixed costs linked to recently countries.
These trends provide favourable momentum commissioned brewery facilities and supply chain difficulties that good management can build on and accelerate.
In Asia, good growth in lager volumes in China, Australia and Vietnam, offset by declines in India, resulted in a 7% 20% organic increase in lager volumes.
China led the way with growth of 10% and further share gains in a growing market Market share in China for its Snow brand.
CR Snows share of the market is estimated to exceed 20%.
Volumes in India fell 14% with Given that consolidation within the global industry is some loss of market share due to regulatory issues and well advanced, our emphasis this year has been less on higher taxes in some states.
Conditions improved, however, adding new countries and more on realising the potential towards the end of the year.
Vietnam and Australia both of the portfolio we have.
Where demand is growing, we performed well.
continue to add brewing capacity.
As the Chairman has stated, the past year has seen a spate of acquisitions Despite increasing competition, SABs lager volumes and new construction in China and Africa.
Our Chinese in South Africa were only 1% below the prior year.
associate, CR Snow, has bought three more breweries Soft drinks volumes were hit by the difficult economic and built a further four the greenfield projects reinforcing environment and poor weather with sales falling 1%.
an already strong presence in Jilin, Inner Mongolia and The business stepped up its investment in sales and Zhejiang and taking the business into the important marketing and was rewarded with higher volumes and Shanghai province.
In Africa in the past year, weve a better competitive performance.
This investment was invested in new breweries in Tanzania, Mozambique, partly funded by a reduction in costs in non-market-facing Angola and Southern Sudan and carried out expansions activities which delivered savings of almost US$80 million.
and upgrades in Uganda and Zambia.
Margins declined modestly due to the lower volumes, higher input costs and the increase in investment.
Organic, constant currency EBITA was up 2%.
1 MillerCoors pro forma is defined on page 29 note 3.
12 Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives review continued As industry consolidation slows, competitive advantage depends increasingly on realising the potential of our business portfolio.
Hence our emphasis on organic growth through understanding the consumer and constantly enhancing our brand portfolios.
On the African continent were also looking at products The Latin American businesses have achieved particular other than beer where it makes sense to do so.
As one success by revitalising existing brands and introducing of the worlds largest bottlers of Coca-Cola, we have new ones, making bottles and labels more attractive long experience of managing both beer and soft drinks and overhauling the route to market so as to enhance in markets where the cost and operational benefits make our ability to deliver the right brands to the right outlets it advantageous.
This year weve pushed the strategy at the right time.
Recent innovations include Aguila Light further by acquiring a Zambian maheu business a nonsuitable for drinking at home with meals, flavoured beer alcoholic traditional beverage and two water companies alternatives Redds in Colombia, for example and the covering Uganda and Ethiopia.
Weve also added soft development of non-alcoholic soft drinks, all helping drinks capacity in Ghana, Angola and Southern Sudan.
to address new and different drinking occasions.
In developing our business portfolio, we benefit from Around the group, were also benefiting from brand valuable partnerships with China Resources Enterprise, portfolios that offer affordable options to price-conscious Castel in Africa and Molson Coors in North America.
Our Colombian business, for example, has year weve further strengthened our relationship with our made it cheaper to buy a beer by offering its Aguila brand partners in China with managers from CR Snow making in smaller bottles.
Our operations in Africa continue to a number of visits to other parts of the SABMiller group develop new, low-cost products based on indigenous crops to share learning and best practice.
such as sorghum and cassava that can then be marketed as affordable alternatives to traditional home brews.
As the pace of consolidation in the global brewing industry slows, competitive advantage depends increasingly on generating organic growth.
For SABMiller, this means a sharper focus on the commercial imperatives of understanding 270 bps the consumer, enhancing our brand portfolios and getting our products into the market efficiently and effectively.
EBITA margin increase in Colombia Against this background, our strategic priority of Nor are we forgetting consumers who aspire to a developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that luxury brand on special occasions but find international win in the local market comes more to the fore.
The premium beers too expensive.
To meet this need, weve conviction that we stand or fall by the success of our championed the concept of the local premium brand to brands finds expression in our group mission to own offer the cachet of a premium beer at a more affordable and nurture local and international brands that are the price.
Selling at attractive margins, these have proved first choice of the consumer.
very successful in Latin America, Africa, Europe and even Our performance owes much to SABMillers powerful the USA in the form of craft beers such as Blue Moon.
portfolio of over 200 local brands whose consumer appeal Development of our four international premium brands and brand equity have made it possible in many markets is continuing, but this is a longer-term process requiring to gain share and assume price leadership at the same the seeding of the brands into the marketplace over time.
This year group revenues rose 4% on an organic, several years.
constant currency basis with all regions increasing their revenue per hectolitre.
Developing successful brand portfolios requires the right interplay of global and local skills.
Through The Marketing Way, a group-wide initiative to codify and disseminate best practice, were building our marketing and sales expertise 4% around the world.
Now, through our 5 to Drive initiative, we have an improved global system for monitoring progress Group revenue growth and highlighting the potential for further organic growth organic, constant currency in our existing operations.
In implementing these global initiatives, however, we remain aware that beer is In developing our brand portfolios, were able to draw essentially a local product, embedded in communities on our deep understanding of local consumers, our ability and cultures.
Its one of our competitive strengths that we to match specific needs and occasions with differentiated understand the local dimension and that group businesses brands and the excitement that comes from constantly are able to address local needs within the global framework.
upgrading and enhancing the portfolio.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives review 13 Beer is essentially a local product, embedded in communities and cultures.
Its one of our strengths that we understand the local dimension and that group businesses can address local needs in a sustainable way within the global framework.
To free up local management for the task of winning in This year we tightened our management of cash and their own markets, were running a number of projects re-examined all our capital expenditure, applying stringent to simplify and streamline the organisation, reduce criteria based on the risks and opportunities in each country.
complexity and capitalise on the spread and expertise of As a result, capital expenditure, including the purchase of the worldwide group which brings us to another of our intangible assets, at US$1,528 million, was US$619 million strategic priorities, namely leveraging our skills and lower than in the prior year and the group generated free global scale.
Following a period of rapid growth in which many new In difficult times, its easy to take actions that protect operations have joined the group, we believe the time short-term profitability at the expense of long-term is right for a step-change in our global processes and sustainability.
We do not believe that this is the best way systems.
A major business capability programme, now to generate value for our stakeholders.
For this reason, under way, will standardise information and processes weve reworded this particular strategic priority to include based on a single, integrated IT system across finance, the word sustainably.
Sales, distribution In line with this imperative, we continue to work on the and supply chain management processes will also be 10 sustainable development priorities detailed on pages streamlined and moved onto common, regional systems 42 to 43.
Our breweries are making good progress platforms.
A new global procurement organisation based towards our targets to reduce water use and fossil fuel in Switzerland will capitalise on SABMillers worldwide emissions per hectolitre of beer produced.
Water used purchasing power by centralising the groups procurement per hectolitre of beer produced fell 0.2hl to 4.3hl and where its in our interests to do so.
fossil fuel emissions per hectolitre were 0.6 kg CO e 2 These various initiatives are based on proven technologies down at 13.3 kg CO e. As repeated studies have shown, 2 and systems and will take four years to complete.
As well we continue to make a valuable social and economic as creating a more connected global organisation, theyre contribution to the communities in which we operate.
expected to produce ongoing cost benefits of US$300 Weve also been addressing public concerns about million a year by 2014.
This year, we have realised total the harmful consumption of alcohol, both in the way financial benefits of US$350 million, US$333 million we conduct our own business and in projects jointly of which were from improved working capital, while undertaken with other stakeholders.
Further details recognising exceptional costs of US$342 million relating of what we are doing in this area are contained in the to the programme.
sustainable development report on pages 40 to 41.
Addressing risks Like any organisation, we face a variety of risks.
Recognising US$2,010m that risk is a fact of business, presenting opportunity as well as threat, we aim to manage it in a way that generates Free cash flow the best return for our shareholders.
The well-developed risk management process described on pages 57 and 58 Our businesses around the world continue to demonstrate helps us to identify and monitor the principal risks to the tight operational management and cost control, in line business and deal with them appropriately.
The principal with our next strategic priority of constantly raising risks we face are set out on pages 24 and 25. the profitability of local businesses, sustainably.
The acquisitions of the last few years in China are starting Looking ahead to generate the expected synergies and economies We expect the coming year to be another testing one of scale.
In the USA, MillerCoors is making excellent with consumers in developed markets, in particular, still progress in its three-year cost-management programme.
feeling the effects of the global recession.
Against this In South Africa, SAB is extracting further efficiencies background, the actions weve taken to position our from its production, supply chain and administration and business around the world, to invest in our brands and reinvesting the savings in growth generating activities to develop our operational capabilities will continue to such as marketing, distribution and developing its brand underpin our medium-term growth.
In response to severe economic conditions in Europe, weve restructured some of our businesses and Graham Mackay announced the closure of a number of breweries and Chief Executive distribution centres.
