Chief Executives review High quality customerservice andour cultureof innovation means our products and services are well positioned inthe market.
The Sage Group plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Support contract renewals, a key measure of Overview of the year The web the underlying performance of our business We are pleased to report that the Group SMEs are increasingly looking at the business model, were maintained at 81% 2009: 81% returned to organic revenue growth in the benefits of using the web in running their in line with the long-term average renewal second half of the year, with 3% organic businesses.
As a trusted partner to SMEs, rates.
Premium support continues to revenue growth in the second half offsetting through, for example 1.8 million maintenance resonate with our customers, with premium a contraction of 2% in the first half, and support contracts, we are well placed contracts making up 68% of maintenance leaving us flat for the year year ended to deliver those benefits to SMEs.
Our approach to the web reflects our need to cater for our large installed base of For the year as a whole, we attracted Our customers customers, as well as our desire to attract 252,000 first time customers to Sage.
We therefore have In the same way that SMEs entered the Our customers continued to renew recession later than larger businesses, two strands to our web strategy.
The first maintenance and support contracts at is to introduce web-based connected theyhave lagged larger businesses in seeing historical rates, reflecting the high quality confidence return to their markets.
We are services into our existing products.
of our maintenance and support.
The second is to release online business seeing signs of more optimism from Further benefits from cost reductions SMEs, although this has to be balanced with solutions including SaaS which will appeal achieved in 2009 were realised in the year, particularly to new customers.
In addition lack of visibility over the economic recovery.
with an increase in the EBITA margin to 25% SMEs are prepared to invest in business to this strategy, the web is becoming from 24% excluding FY09 restructuring an intrinsic part of all our products with, management products and services where costs.
At the same time as increasing they see real business benefits and we are for example, auto updates and product margins, we have continued to invest in key usage feedback mechanisms increasingly pleased to report growth in software and areas of the business, for example preparing software-related services revenues of 2% being utilised within our standard products.
our products for the web, and building an inthe second half of the year.
This is the international team to support the sale of firstperiod of growth in software and Connected services Sage ERP X3 across Sage following its software-related services since the second Sage now offers a number of web-based successful global launch in January 2010. half of 2007. services which extend the reach of our on-premise applications into the cloud.
Our business partner channel remains Key metrics highly relevant to SMEs, particularly in the These are grouped within the categories of We saw an improving market for software mid-market, bringing their deep domain data services, mobile and remote access, knowledge of SMEs business processes e-Commerce, employee services, financial and software-related services over the year with revenue contracting by 4% organically to ensure our solutions are implemented services, customer management including and, if appropriate, customised in the most CRM, and payment processing.
Connected compared to a 16% contraction for the year ended 30 September 2009.
We have seen the trend of services offer the potential to increase partner consolidation continue, and we average revenue per customer and average customers purchased software solutions in the year, demonstrating the value that our have focused our resources and sales leads life of a customer due to the deepening of on high quality partners who are able to the customers relationship with Sage.
products and services offer to SMEs.
Organic subscription revenues grew by win new business in a competitive market.
A significant amount of R&D resource As well as Sage developing new and 2% year ended 30 September 2009: 2% across the Group has been dedicated to with good demand for customer support.
adapting existing products and services for the integration of products and allowing data the web, our partners also have adapted to to transfer seamlessly between connected Cash generated from operations represented bring the benefits of the web to customers services and applications.
One example is 117% of EBITA reflecting the continued and we consider our business partner Sage Exchange, a North American payment strong cash generation in the business, channel will remain a key asset in the future.
platform facilitating the exchange of payment andunderlying EPS grew by 14% to 19.22p.
data to and from business software and Excluding prior year restructuring costs, related applications.
Whilst this was only underlying EPS grew by 5%.
launched in May 2010, it has been very well received by customers and industry analysts and Sage now has market leading functionality in this area.
Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2009 have been retranslated based onthe average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2010 of $1.56 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
The Sage Group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives review continued Online business solutions Pascal Houillon, currently CEO of Sage includingSaaS France, will succeed Sue Swenson upon herretirement, at which time he will also Across our markets we see demand for joinSages Executive Committee.
SaaS being led by small and micro businesses who have relatively simple needsand, Paul Stobart, Executive Director, and particularly for start-ups, havenoexisting currently CEO of Sage UK and Ireland, on-premise infrastructure.
Our SaaS willbecome CEO of Sage Northern Europe launches are targeted at that segment of encompassing UK, Ireland, Germany, the market, with several products launched Poland and Switzerland.
such as Contaonline in Spain, MyBusiness lvaro Ramrez, currently CEO of Sage Online in South Africa and Billing Boss in Spain, will become CEO of Sage Southern North America, and a number of other Europe encompassing France, Spain, releases planned in the future.
OurSaaS Portugal and Belgium, and will join Sages offers include products targeting the Executive Committee.
small business payroll market, such as Ivan Epstein, currently CEO for Africa and einfachLohn in Germany and Ciel Paye Australia, will also assume responsibility for inFrance.
the Middle East and Asian regions.
In the mid-market, our products can be David Clayton, Executive Director, and hosted by Sage or by business partners currently Strategy and M&A Director, will andoffered as a service.
For example, become Director of Strategy and Corporate SageLogic Class in Spain now has over Development.
David will spearhead the 200mid-market customers hosted by strategic development of new businesses, Sage, and SalesLogix Cloud edition was particularly in relation to the web, and will be launched in May 2010 to address this responsible for the expansion of Sage Pay market.
As part of this, the rental model for into Europe.
consuming software is increasingly being offered across our mid-market products.
Paul Harrisons role as Executive Director and Group Finance Director will be expanded In addition to being a connected service, to encompass M&A responsibilities previously ourpayment processing products may also held by David Clayton.
be utilised by customers on a stand-alone Message from Paul Walker online basis.
We thank Sue for the significant contribution she has made to Sage.
Against a difficult economic backdrop, she has consolidated Board and management the North American business after an intense changes period of acquisition, driven a significant On 1 October 2010 I took over as CEO from improvement in margin and developed our Paul Walker, who had been CEO for 16 years.
connected services strategy in the region.
She leaves the business on a firm footing In addition, as separately announced on 1December 2010, we are making for future growth, as demonstrated in our results for this year.
We wish her well for a the following changes to Sages Executive Committee.
All changes are effective as of happy retirement.
I am proud to have served as CEO of 1January 2011 unless otherwise stated.
Sage for 16 years and as an employee for Sue Swenson, President and CEO of Sage 23 years in total, and in that time seen Sage North America since March 2008, has grow into the market leading international decided to retire and will leave the business business it is today.
Our key assets of a in mid 2011. large customer base, well known products and brands, strong channel and skilled and committed people, all remain as relevant as ever, andIleave a business which is well positioned for future growth.
Paul Walker Retired Chief Executive The Sage Group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 We are delighted that Pascal has agreed Acquisitions Outlook to lead the North American business after During the year we completed the Our commitment to high quality customer Sue.
Under his leadership, Sage has grown acquisition of Netcash Pty Ltd, a business service and our culture of innovation rapidly to become a major force in France providing payment processing services means our products and services are well and the second largest business in the in South Africa, for 8.5m consideration.
Pascal is a great talent with an With our substantial and growing customer outlook remains uncertain, we are seeing in-depth understanding of the small, base in South Africa, the acquisition offers some signs of improving markets for mid-market and vertical sectors, an eye Sage an attractive opportunity to extend our customers, although this varies by for innovation and the operational skills integrated and secure transaction geography.
Together, these factors have and vision to drive Sage North America processing services to those customers.
contributed to the revenue momentum we to the next level of growth.
have seen in the second half of the year.
We continue to evaluate acquisitions as Concerning David Claytons expanded part of our strategy.
Acquisition opportunities Our focus is on improving organic revenue corporate development role, as Sage looks lie in both existing and new geographical growth, particularly in North America, in to increase its share of revenues from markets.
They also lie in markets such as driving our web strategy, and in growing our connected services and online business the provision of accounting and payroll margin in the medium term whilst continuing solutions, there will be a stronger focus software to SMEs and in new markets such to invest in higher growth initiatives such as on developing web-based businesses as the provision of web-related products payment processing and Sage ERP X3.
that extend over multiple countries and are and services.
We continue to apply Thenew organisation structure announced complementary to Sages core accountancy rigorous discipline to the evaluation of on 1 December 2010 will enable us to and ERP business.
These businesses are these opportunities, with appraisal models capitalise fully on the many growth likely to operate under different business clearly linked to shareholder value.
opportunities we have, and we look forward models to Sages traditional business.
with cautious optimism, whilst managing our They will therefore be ring-fenced, incubated costs prudently in these uncertain times.
and supervised centrally as they grow.
This structure leverages the experience Guy Berruyer Chief Executive from 1 October 2010 of our current executives and also brings through a new generation of leaders.
The new team better reflects the international and entrepreneurial nature of the business and exploits our operational expertise.
It will enable us to collaborate better, to drive innovation and to maximise the opportunities we have to deliver outstanding software and services to our customers and partners.
The Sage Group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
