Asset development Chairmans and Chief Executives review Within the Groups broad portfolio, we have been focussing on developing our position within selected regional plays where we have large, material operated The past year has seen the Group positions, with discovered resources or current deliver production growth, broaden its production that offer both further upside and room operations and further consolidate its to grow.
We see competitive advantage for the position as a prominent Asian oil and gas Group in these areas due to our acreage position exploration and production company.
has a highly distinctive blend of operating expertise, During the period we consolidated our position in commercial skills and regional focus, which together the Gulf of Thailand, through the acquisition of the with well developed relationships with government 40% minority interest in the B8 38 production licence organisations, national oil companies and partners containing the Bualuang oil field, providing further across the Asian region, will continue to provide production and greater exposure to exploration the platform for further value creation.
Recently we have seen the reserves increase We continue to see Asia as having a highly dynamic in the Bualuang field and the contract award for the and resilient macro-economic environment.
This is Bravo platform which are key steps in order to further reflected in both the attractive regional growth rates exploit the field and deliver future production growth.
and the buoyant energy markets in particular the The Group deepened its position in East Kalimantan, increasing demand for indigenous gas, as evidenced Indonesia, through the acquisition of our minority by rising domestic gas prices in our key markets of non-operating partner in the Bontang PSC, taking Thailand and Indonesia.
Having traded in an unusually our interest to 100% in that PSC, and through the stable range for most of 2010, oil prices broke out acquisition of a 69% operated interest in the of this range towards the end of the year and have Bangkanai PSC, containing the Kerendan gas field.
increased rapidly during the first quarter of 2011 During December we announced an oil and gas due in part to political uncertainty in the Middle discovery in the Bontang PSC with the Angklung-1 East and North Africa.
We believe this to be an important discovery, proving up a gas play with a high quality Financial results reservoir and significant resource potential located Increased production and higher commodity some 60 km from the Bontang LNG plant, which prices were reflected in the Groups financial results is currently short of gas supply.
We were also with revenue increasing by 106% to $323.4 million encouraged to discover an Upper Miocene oil play 2009: $157.1 million and operating cash flow before which offers a substantial additional prize above working capital adjustments growing by 108% and beyond the gas potential.
The Group reports a loss before Finally, in the Khorat basin, onshore north east tax of $113.7 million 2009: $3.0 million, after net Thailand we have seen encouragement in the impairment charges of $48.6 million and exploration Dao Ruang-2 well, which has encountered fractures expenses of $95.9 million.
Before charging these and seen gas while drilling.
We have now started non-cash items, the Groups profit before tax was testing operations on this well and will announce $30.8 million 2009: 8.4 million.
the results in due course.
This well was located Average realisations of $73.16 per bbl 2009: $51.37 and planned on the basis of our high resolution 3D and $5.12 per Mscf 2009: $4.03 were achieved seismic dataset, which has been instrumental in during the year.
understanding the sub-surface architecture and in locating the productive fracture networks in these gas accumulations.
The Group holds a leading acreage position in the onshore Khorat basin and, in the event of a commercial flow rate from Dao Ruang-2, has a number of follow up opportunities on which to utilise its knowledge and experience of the play.
2 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational performance Outlook The first half of 2010 saw some disappointments We forecast average daily production for 2011 will as the Group drilled high risk, frontier wells in be between 22,000 and 23,000 boepd.
We are taking Lao PDR and Vietnam and experienced a reserve a conservative approach to managing the balance downgrade on the Kambuna field.
Operational sheet and plan to deliver the current years capital performance improved in the second half with programme below forecast post tax cash generation.
a minor discovery recorded in the Southern Kutei As part of that work programme, the Group continues basin and a clear exploration success delivered to pursue an extensive exploration and appraisal with the Angklung discovery.
The Company has programme with a lower risk profile relative to 2010. started 2011 in positive fashion, delivering reserves We believe the Group will demonstrate its ability upgrades on the Bualuang field.
to create further value through focussing on selected On the production front we are pleased to report regional plays offshore and onshore Thailand and in 2010 daily average production of 20,300 boepd, East Kalimantan.
Additionally, exposure to targeted up 49% from the 2009 average production rate.
exploration plays, in particular our position in offshore 2010 saw all production assets perform well with northern Vietnam, offers major upside potential.
the exception of Kambuna field, which was shut Importantly, we see the potential to reach in for a period during the first half of the year due 30,000 boepd by 2013 from our current asset base, to downstream pipeline maintenance.
We expect this production growth to lead to substantial revenue People and cash flow growth in the same period.
Our people are central to delivering the successful While we have had a strong start to the year, results we are starting to see from the business, and the Board believes the Company is only just on behalf of the Board we would like to thank them beginning to reveal the enormous potential we for their efforts.
We have strengthened the senior see in our people, our assets, and in the wider management team this year with a number of high operating platform we have developed in the quality additions and have built one of the leading heart of one of the most vibrant and dynamic and most capable teams in the region.
economic regions in the world today.
The whole team shares managements commitment to excellence in all matters related to health and safety.
HSE practices in the industry have come under increased scrutiny in 2010 and more detail on Group performance can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report.
Whilst it was disappointing that the Group recorded its first lost Charles Jamieson time incident during 2010, the overall safety record Chairman is excellent and the Board and employees are 23 March 2011 committed to maintaining this.
James Menzies Chief Executive Officer 23 March 2011 3 Overview Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
