Section 3 Chief Executives Statement Overview of the year 2010 was a successful year for Serco, thanks to the commitment of our people to delivering quality essential services that matter to millions of people.
Our continued focus on excellent service for our customers resulted in high win rates and strong operational and financial performance in very challenging times.
6WURQJ QDQFLDO SHUIRUPDQFH Serco delivered a strong financial performance in 2010, with revenue growth of 9.0% to 4,326.7m.
Organic growth was 7.6%, excluding currency effects.
This growth demonstrated the capability, resilience and benets of our portfolio, and our ability to develop new sectors and geographies as economic headwinds began to be felt in the UK.
Revenue growth was particularly strong in AMEAA and we achieved a very good second half in the Americas.
In the UK, good momentum from wins in 2009 drove growth in civil government markets while austerity measures began to Our colleagues across the be felt, particularly in the defence and local government markets.
world deliver essential services and their achievements have Adjusted operating profit rose by 12.6% to led to a strong financial 258.7m, reecting a 19 basis point increase performance in very challenging in Adjusted operating profit margin to 6.0% 16 basis points increase excluding currency.
We expect Sercos position in new, diverse and The Group delivered exceptionally strong expanding international markets free cash ow of 185.8m, compared with to deliver ongoing benets.
Cash benefited by around 20m from asset sale proceeds, a particularly Our agility and capacity high level of joint venture dividends and low to innovate underpin our tax payments.
confidence in continued growth across all our regions.
Our policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
Adjusted earnings per share rose 17.5% to 34.69p per share.
Reecting this growth, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 5.15p per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 7.35p, up 17.6% compared with the previous year.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 17 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 11 March 2011.
18 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 18 15 03 2011 13:35 EQ FRQWUDFW DZDUGV O a 200m, eight-year strategic partnership VSUHDG LQWHUQDWLRQDOO with Hertfordshire County Council, and In 2010, we signed contracts valued at 4.2bn across a wide range of markets, O a five-year transportation management and were appointed preferred bidder for contract with the State of Georgia a further 1.4bn of contracts.
Our wins Department of Transportation, valued included significant contract extensions at US 50m.
and expansions, as well as new contracts in existing and new geographies and sectors.
Transferring our skills and capabilities across The value of these wins does not include our business helps us to expand into new a number of indefinite Delivery, indefinite geographies and sectors, and we had further 4uantity IDI4 contracts in the US, which success during 2010.
Of particular note, we qualied for and which have a combined we were: ceiling value of US 4bn.
These enable us to compete against other appointed companies O awarded our first home affairs contract for one or more of the specic task orders in New Zealand, to manage the Mt Eden within the IDI4.
and Auckland Central Remand Prison, valued at up to NZ 300m 140m over Among the notable expansions and ten years, and extensions to contracts during the year were: O appointed preferred bidder for our first O a two-year extension to our joint ventures contract in the Australian health market Northern Rail contract, valued to Serco a substantial ten-year contract to provide at approximately 530m services at Fiona Stanley Hospital in Perth.
O a renewed and expanded ten-year 100m In addition there were many smaller contracts contract to provide services at RAF Halton won by transferring capabilities, including and RAF High Wycombe a five-year contract with a new US customer, the Department of Veterans Affairs, to provide O a renewed and expanded US 170m, human capital solutions, and transport five-year air trafc control contract with consultancy including a contract for the the US Federal Aviation Administration Makkah Metro in Saudi Arabia.
For more details of these and other contract O one renewed contract and one new awards, see the operating review on pages contract with the US Navy to provide 26 to 51 hazardous materials management, valued at approximately US 84m over For details of some of the many smaller and 3 years and US 88m over five years, medium-sized contract wins, see our contract respectively, and news updates O a renewed ten-year contract with the Royal We launched the Barclays Cycle Hire 6XEVWDQWLDO JOREDO GHPDQG IRU scheme just 11 months after winning the Australian Navy for our 50:50 joint venture HIFLHQW GHOLYHU RI HVVHQWLDO contract.
with P O, valued to Serco at A 250m.
IURQWOLQH VHUYLFHV The economic environment, reform of public We had a number of important contract wins services and nation building are driving strong during 2010.
These included: demand for the efficient delivery of essential frontline services, creating opportunities for O a 25-year, 650m environmental services Serco in both new and existing markets.
Our contract with Sandwell Metropolitan broad capabilities and track record of delivery Borough Council allow us to support customers as they look for help in transforming the quality and O a 415m, 26 year contract to provide efficiency of these services, and in tackling and operate a new prison at Belmarsh key challenges such as economic stability West, London and development, congestion, security, health and climate change.
O a ten-year contract with Kings College We continue to grow our presence in the Australasian home affairs market.
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust for our GSTS Pathology joint venture, valued at around 110m to Serco Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 19 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 19 14 03 2011 14:20 Section 3 Chief Executives Statement In the UK, the Governments Comprehensive international platforms from which to grow Spending Review has created a pressing organically and benefit from the potential for need for public services to increase their rapid expansion of those markets.
We also efficiency in the face of reduced budgets see significant potential in India, where we and our markets are not immune.
We signed have recently established our presence.
a Memorandum of Understanding with the Cabinet Ofce in November to deliver cost The US is the largest government contracting savings on a number of contracts this year, market in the world and our skills and further developing our strong partnership capabilities, enhanced by those of our 2008 with the UK Government.
While these savings acquisition of SI International, enable us to are not material to the Group results, they participate successfully.
combine with other headwinds, including the cancellation of one prison, the phasing out of We are well positioned to grow our share the Business Link contracts and the pending of the addressable federal services market, developments in public service reform, which is valued at over US 150bn per to create a challenging environment in 2011. annum.
While the Government is seeking to reduce expenditure in certain areas, such The UK Government has stated that the public as large weapons programmes, we expect sector does not have to deliver the services to see substantial opportunities in emerging it commissions.
This is paving the way for the priority areas such as IT infrastructure, private and voluntary sectors to participate cybersecurity, federal health and energymore fully in newer markets, such as welfare efficient IT.
to work and offender rehabilitation, and for the development of new delivery models, In Asia Pacic, we have an active bid pipeline, such as mutual organisations.
We also expect driven by the need for better infrastructure to see service providers increasingly paid for and services, in a scally conservative the results they deliver, a model with which environment.
Governments in Australia we already have considerable experience, are aiming to return their budgets to particularly in the Flexible New Deal contracts surplus, helping to build a solid pipeline which are now planned to end in of opportunities in areas such as health, June 2011.
These are to be replaced by the justice and defence.
Work Programme framework and we have been selected as a bidder for contracts in In markets such as the Middle East and India, seven of the 11 regions.
we continue to expect further opportunities arising from the demand for new services, We continue to work positively with our including public transport systems, facilities customers in the UK as they look for solutions management, education, health services to their financial and operational challenges.
We are confident that our opportunities to support those needs will become clearer later While we are primarily focused on organic We are well positioned to grow our share of this year and we expect these to drive further growth, we will continue to acquire new the addressable US federal services market.
We are anticipating that a skills and capabilities where they bring forthcoming parliamentary white paper on opportunities for growth in new markets Open Public Services will outline in more and sectors, such as the US federal market depth how private and voluntary sector and international BPO markets.
organisations could deliver additional UK public services.
%ULQJLQJ VHUYLFH WR OLIH During 2010, we set a new vision for Serco Our international portfolio, spread across to be the worlds greatest service company.
many expanding economies and markets, remains an important and proven element Being the greatest is not about the size of our strategy.
Our businesses outside the of our revenues, profits or growth.
It means UK now account for 40% of our revenues being the best at what we do and how we and we are benefiting from the broader do it, so we deliver maximum benefit for capabilities and contract portfolios we have our customers.
Everyone in Serco discovers We expect further opportunities in the Middle developed in recent years.
Our progress their own interpretation of greatest, which East arising from the demand for new in establishing home markets in the US, supports what they do every day bringing services.
Australia and the Middle East gives us strong service to life.
20 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 20 14 03 2011 14:20 Bringing service to life describes what we do in two ways.
It captures how we breathe new life into services, transforming their efficiency, productivity and effectiveness.
And it recognises that the services we deliver make a difference to millions of lives around the world.
In this report, we have highlighted just a few examples of how we bring service to life.
These examples typify our approach to service, the commitment and passion of our people and the outcomes we deliver for our customers.
Our Northern Rail joint venture was 2010 Train Operator of the year.
People Serco has some 70,000 people delivering We have excellent visibility of future revenue essential services around the world.
Our due to the signed contracts that make up success is not only the result of their hard our order book, contracts we expect to work but also their commitment to our values extend and rebid, and contracts at the and service ethos.
I thank them for their preferred bidder stage which we expect to outstanding contribution to Serco and to sign.
At 31 December 2010, our order book our customers in 2010. stood at 16.6bn, compared with 17.1bn at the end of 2009, reecting our contract We have a clear strategy for managing and signings during year, the ending of our UK developing our people, which in turn supports Flexible New Deal contracts and the cost our overall strategy and vision: to be the savings on a number of contracts we have worlds greatest service company, we have delivered to the UK Cabinet Ofce.
We had to be the best at managing people.
visibility, at 31 December, of 92% of planned revenue for 2011, 77% for 2012 and 66% Our people strategy is to: for 2013.
Our pipeline of opportunities is currently 29bn.
O develop leaders who are t for the future and who will thrive as Serco grows For 2011, we expect good organic revenue growth and progress towards our 2012 O have people who bring service to life, margin guidance.
Whilst this reects the who are fully integrated and engaged contracts we have won in 2010 and the with Serco, and whom we can develop opportunities we expect to see across our to achieve their full potential, and regions during 2011, we have also taken into account the headwinds in the UK.
We expect O make it easier to manage our people, the opportunities arising from the changed Sercos success is a result of the hard work, values and service ethos of our people.
by continually enhancing our systems economic environment in the UK to begin and processes.
We made further good progress against each Prospects beyond the current year are part of this strategy in 2010. encouraging and we continue to expect, by the end of 2012, an increase in revenue to approximately 5bn and in Adjusted operating For more information on our people, see profit margin to approximately 6.3%.
pages 60 to 63 Christopher Hyman CBE Reiterating guidance Chief Executive Our guidance reects the growth potential we see across all our regions, supported by our high revenue visibility and substantial pipeline Note: excluding material acquisitions, disposals and currency effects, and based on 2008 exchange rates.
We help UK councils increase recycling rates and reduce waste sent to landll.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 21 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 21 14 03 2011 18:11 Section 3 Market opportunities and drivers At the start of 2010, we created The competed public services market has potential to increase signicantly in pursuit five new divisions based of efficiency: it was estimated in 2008 to around our principal markets.
be valued at some 80bn, representing only This allowed us to maximise one third of the Governments expenditure our focus on growth and on services.
opportunities and maintain We are anticipating headwinds in the current a exible and devolved year whilst decisions on reform are resolved organisation which responds and customers develop their plans for future to our customers needs.
However, a number of government reviews including those into defence and Both the sections on market opportunities security, transport and welfare, and a and drivers, and the operating review, forthcoming parliamentary white paper on are presented according to these divisions: Open Public Services, may result in new opportunities for the private and voluntary O Civil Government sector organisations to deliver services.
We expect further clarity as the year progresses.
O Defence, Science and Nuclear &LYLO RYHUQPHQW O Local Government and Commercial Welfare is an area of significant UK Government expenditure.
The Work O Americas, and Programme is Britains biggest employment programme for decades and will also be the O AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia, first major move to a system of payment by and Australasia.
The contracts are substantially larger, longer and have greater scope than the Our markets offer a broad range of current Flexible New Deal contracts, as they opportunities, as governments address will extend support to other groups including substantial budget deficits and face continued the 2.5 million people claiming Incapacity pressure to improve public services.
The Work Programme will be let governments are implementing deficit through framework agreements to allow for reduction programmes and require ongoing faster and more exible procurement, and efficiencies in the delivery of essential will adopt the model we have successfully frontline services, which others are seeking pioneered of subcontracting frontline delivery to invest in creating or improving services.
There is also All are addressing significant challenges potential for other employment-related including unemployment and economic support services contracts to be let through development, ageing and growing this framework over the next five years, populations, migration, security, congestion including subsequent contracts that attract Serco has made a successful start in the and climate change.
growing welfare to work market.
Faced with this, governments are increasingly In home affairs, the first three existing recognising the benets of opening new public-sector prisons are being market-tested areas of public service to competition.
We also see opportunities arising Studies have demonstrated that competition from the drive to manage the existing prison can reduce the cost of public services by estate more effectively, reduce re-offending 10-30% and stimulate innovation in delivery.
and improve the efficiency of probation, where a 1.6bn market is opening up.
UK In addition, we are well placed to help with In the UK, the economic environment has the proposed move to more community created a pressing need for more efficient sentences for offenders, for example through public services in the face of reduced our capabilities in electronic monitoring and budgets.
In its Comprehensive Spending rehabilitation of offenders.
Review, the Government stated its intention We see opportunities to grow our pathology to move from being a deliverer of services The UK health budget is approximately joint venture.
to becoming a procurer, and is now looking 20% of government spending, at more than to promote choice, increase accountability 100bn per annum, and reforms are focused and devolve powers away from the centre.
on greater efficiency and improved 22 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3a.
We see opportunities to grow also exploring how we can apply our our pathology joint venture and provide operations and maintenance capability in facilities management and support services critical national infrastructure to the wider to healthcare establishments and GP renewable energy market and establishing commissioners.
We will also look at further a Centre for Carbon Measurement.
opportunities to manage NHS hospitals and expand in offender healthcare.
RFDO RYHUQPHQW DQG &RPPHUFLDO In UK local government, councils are under 'HIHQFH 6FLHQFH DQG 1XFOHDU significant pressure from reductions in central In the UK defence market, the Government government grants, a freeze on council tax has moved to a National Security policy increases, reductions in business rates and with the publication of the Strategic Defence increased service demands from citizens.
and Security Review SDSR in October 2010, This is driving interest in strategic partnering, bringing together a number of markets service sharing, process re-engineering, in which we currently have presence and are personalisation of services and in some increasing our potential.
The SDSR also areas, engagement with the voluntary sector.
identied target reductions to the number We are currently in discussions with more of civil servants and the armed forces over than 20 local authorities about how we can the next five years, involving new ways of help them to transform service delivery.
Our working and a more radical approach to successful bids into Eneld Borough Council, the delivery of both back-ofce services Hertfordshire County Council and Sandwell and procurement.
Implementation of these Metropolitan Borough Council are examples changes is likely to provide opportunities of how we have applied our broad and deep for Serco to support the Ministry of Defence capabilities.
We are committed to partnering MOD in change management, transition with the voluntary sector and small and and the provision of complex integrated medium-sized enterprises, to develop services.
We are one of two bidders awaiting solutions which address our customers needs.
the decision on the Recruiting Partnering Project for the Army, and one of three bidders We are also engaging actively with a number on the Future Outsourced Activities of local authorities to discuss models for Programme for Royal Navy recruits.
the outsourcing of education and childrens services, in the wake of the spending review In wider security and civil resilience markets, and Education white papers.
Our partnership we are pursuing opportunities such as the models, offering shared revenue and profit, long-term provision of outsourced training have been well received.
We anticipate a services to the London Fire and Emergency number of opportunities coming to market Planning Authority.
The UKs scientific establishments have a We are seeing a revolution in the way critical role in addressing challenges such health services are delivered, increased as economic recovery, climate change and opportunities to build on our integrated UK councils are looking for help with transforming service delivery.
We are in a facilities management offering to acute strong position to contribute given our hospital trusts and reaching into middle ofce experience of managing the National Physical services such as human resources and Laboratory, the National Nuclear Laboratory, finance.
Our success in transferring these the Atomic Weapons Establishment and our skills as part of our proposition for Fiona nuclear assurance business.
Our partnership Stanley Hospital in Australia, where we are with the MOD on the Chemical, Biological, preferred bidder, demonstrates the value of Radiological and Nuclear Protection Delivery our experience.
Team also enables us to bid for further partnerships within the MOD.
In the energy sector, the UK Government faces significant challenges in securing the countrys long-term needs while tackling climate change.
Our participation ranges from The scientific establishments we run will help the UK Government address challenges delivering regulatory and technical services in such as climate change and energy security.
the nuclear new-build programme to reducing the radar interference of windfarms.
We are Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 23 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 23 14 03 2011 14:21 Section 3 Market opportunities and drivers $PHULFDV AMEAA The US market, which is the largest In Australia and New Zealand, there government contracting market in the world, is a growing range of opportunities.
offers Serco opportunities in both the federal defense and federal civilian markets.
In the justice sector, we are seeing a number of new-build and existing prisons being In the US federal services market, of which put to the market, as governments challenge our addressable share is valued at US 150bn the traditional approach.
per annum out of a total of US 300bn, we expect the increasing reliance on information We also continue to pursue the emerging technology to continue to present significant health market in both Australia and Hong opportunities for Serco.
IT is essential for Kong, as governments encourage the private successful government operations and we and voluntary sectors to challenge traditional expect increasing demand in areas where service delivery models for the build, finance we have strong capabilities, such as systems and operation of hospitals.
engineering, cybersecurity, program management, command and control, Our defence strategy in Australia continues and logistics systems modernisation.
to develop, with opportunities in areas such as logistics and garrison support.
Additionally, the federal government The Governments Strategic Reform continues to face workforce shortages and to Programme will support the creation rely on contractors.
Serco expects to grow in of some of these opportunities, through managed services including human capital reviews of warehousing, distribution and management, military personnel support equipment maintenance.
services, records management, business process outsourcing and logistics supply Sercos operations in the Middle East centre operations.
With our scale, capabilities and on the United Arab Emirates.
This region past performance, we are well positioned to remains buoyant for Serco as governments bid and win larger contracts.
progress with infrastructure and public service projects in transport, education and We qualied on a number of indefinite health.
We continue to build on our core Delivery, indefinite 4uantity IDI4 contract markets in the region, particularly in facilities vehicles, where we are one of a number of management, transport and aviation, and companies able to bid for specic task orders are well placed to move into new markets within the IDI4.
Notable examples awarded of health, education and defence with a during 2010 included a five-year personnel strong pipeline of opportunities for the support services IDI4 contract with the US foreseeable future.
Army, allowing us to compete with 16 other awardees for up to US 2.6bn of task orders.
In India, we continue to develop our presence We are also eligible to compete with 11 other in the domestic BPO market.
In addition, The US is the worlds largest government awardees for task orders within a studies our Global Transport team is shaping contracting market.
and analysis IDI4 contract with the US Army, significant opportunities in both the Middle amounting to US 1.3bn over five years.
In East and India including rail, road and trafc addition, we, along with 13 other companies, management, marine services and aviation.
are signed up to a five-year Recruiting and Retention IDI4 contract for up to US 274m of task orders, to provide program analysis, information technology, counselling and training with the US Army.
Since the year end, the US Navys Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command has named Serco as one of four winners for an IDI4 contract to support the Navy in the installation and testing of Command, Control, Transport is one of the markets where we Communications, Computers, Intelligence, see further opportunities in the Middle East.
The contract has a ceiling value of US 1.4bn over a three-year base period, with a two-year option period.
24 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 24 14 03 2011 14:21 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 25 Serco AR10 Section3a.
