Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Chief Executives review regulatory period, backed by significant lead-in investments to improve our processes and the capabilities of our people.
Along the way we have invested in systems and technologies, implementing SAP and building our new telemetry systems to improve monitoring of our network and lower our operating costs.
We rolled out our Safer Better Faster SBF process improvement programme to more areas of our business to ensure we work in smarter and leaner ways.
We made early progress with our future capital plans, and the new Severn Trent Centre in Coventry is already close to completion and ready for us to move in some 1,700 staff this autumn.
All of which means we enter AMP5 with our plans for the period well advanced.
Severn Trent Services The global economic downturn made this a challenging year for Severn Trent Services.
Nevertheless, by continuing to focus on longer term growth, our complementary non-regulated business maintained customer confidence and remains in good shape.
Operating Services performed well, and continued to grow.
Water Tony Wray, Chief Executive Purification and Analytical Services were harder hit by the recession, effectively losing a year of growth.
That said, the order book remains high at Water Purification and by the end of the year performance was moving back on a growth track.
At Analytical Services we look forward to starting the new 10 year Yorkshire We head into the first year of AMP5 confident Water contract, building on a restructured and lower cost base.
that the hard work our people have been doing Looking to the long term in recent years makes us well prepared to meet As we make the transition from one regulatory period to another, the water industry in England and Wales is reaching a critical point.
the challenges of the future.
At Severn Trent we believe we are in a strong position to deal with the challenges ahead.
Our operational performance, financial strength, geography and low cost base differentiate us from other companies.
We relish the challenge of finding innovative solutions to tough problems and are firmly committed to delivering the lowest charges in In 2009 10 we continued to deliver what we set out to do in our KPIs England and Wales for our customers.
We will also continue to and business strategy, focusing on improving our performance and support our complementary business Severn Trent Services.
At the same time we set about preparing our businesses for the next regulatory period and gearing We are, of course, committed to responsible business conduct.
up for the longer term issues facing the water industry as a whole.
Every day were delivering water and waste water services and treatment solutions to customers globally, were investing in local, Improving performance across our group regional and national economies, and were doing this with a focus In 2009 10 we faced pressures on two fronts continuing impact on minimising our carbon footprint.
This is the real heart of corporate from the economic downturn and the additional challenge of responsibility and for us its business as usual.
Its about keeping our coping with the coldest winter for 30 years.
Nevertheless, we prices down for our customers, being a good, safe and attractive performed well on the financial front, continued to make process employer and safeguarding the environments in which we work.
and efficiency improvements throughout our businesses and delivered excellent service.
Last, but by no means least, we have a great team of people in both Severn Trent and in our supply chain partners.
Wherever I go in our As we reach the end of the regulatory period our performance has business Im impressed by the motivation and commitment of our improved to position us better for AMP5.
AMP4 was not without its people, whether theyre keeping our customers supplied with quality difficulties but we used our learning to transform our business, water, reducing pollution incidents and sewer flooding, producing putting our performance and our company in a strong position to record levels of renewables, improving customer service metrics in meet the challenges of the next five years and beyond.
a tough economic environment, or delivering technological solutions Severn Trent Water and getting it right first time.
Its thanks to them that we move into Over the past five years we have been setting ever higher standards AMP5 with confidence and the kind of strength you would expect to achieve better levels of customer satisfaction and improve our from a company with ambitions to be the best water and waste water environmental, financial and regulatory performance.
We delivered company in the UK.
good results and maintained our dividend promise.
We significantly Finally, may I take this opportunity to thank Sir John for his huge reduced customer complaints, tackling sewer flooding and contribution to Severn Trent over the past five years, and his increasing the reliability of water supplies across our region.
We exemplary leadership through some challenging as well as achieved our own financial targets and those set by Ofwat to meet successful times for our company.
I wish him all the best for the our ongoing commitment to be the best water and waste water future, and give him my personal thanks for the unstinting support company in the UK, with the highest standards, the lowest possible that he has given to me in my role as Chief Executive.
charges for our customers and with great people.
In December 2009, our journey of continuous improvement was recognised by our peers in the utility sector who named us Utility Company of the Year, a prestigious award, one we feel very proud of winning.
That journey has been paving the way for the next Overview
