Year in Review Chief Executives Statement continued We have continued our progress towards establishing a culture that is characterised as entrepreneurial within a clear central framework and direction 3.
Share our core capabilities and technologies within 5.
Continue to use acquisitions to improve asset the Group utilisation and re-orient the portfolio to high growth markets Orgaworld has supported the launch of our organics Given the economic conditions we have not made any business in the UK and has designed the new plant we significant acquisitions this year.
They have also assisted the UK team in making operational improvements to our Culture MBT plants.
we have continued our progress towards establishing a culture that is characterised as entrepreneurial within a in the Benelux we have seen improving co-operation in the clear central framework and direction.
Our local managers management of wood waste across the region.
As there have demonstrated this attitude through their innovative has been a shortage of waste in the Netherlands we were approach to realising cost savings and their ability to the first company to secure a licence to export pre-treated retain their customers during the downturn.
Alongside waste from the UK to the Netherlands where it is being this we have moved, through our Fit for the Future processed into fuel pellets at our icova facility.
programme, towards a more consistent way of managing 4.
Maximise asset utilisation and minimise unit costs resources across the Group.
we have also begun to implement a more structured performance and programme i am pleased with the progress made in both our management framework that will allow us to deliver more Netherlands and Belgian operations to move from a plant consistently and effectively.
based view of asset utilisation to a country level view.
This has allowed us to move waste across various facilities Outlook and either mothball existing plants or avoid new capital in the face of some very challenging economic conditions, expenditure.
As an example we are now feeding our Ghent we have made good progress on the delivery of our key recycling facility with waste from Brussels, avoiding priorities and delivered a robust performance.
capital investment in Brussels and improving substantially the utilisation at Ghent which now runs on a twenty four in the near term we will continue to focus on maintaining hour basis.
i expect further progress in this area this our strong customer relationships, investing in our year as we become more sophisticated in measuring and strategy and protecting our balance sheet strength.
A robust performance Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 18 YEAR iN REViEw 107% free cash flow conversion we are encouraged by preliminary indications towards the end of our final quarter that we are through the worst of the downturn in waste volumes with recyclate prices also on an upward trend.
However, we expect conditions to remain challenging in the near term for our construction related businesses.
Furthermore, the significant impact of the expected decline in Belgian Landfill following the introduction of the new tax regime and potential currency headwinds will constrain the growth potential in the near term.
Overall we anticipate trading for 2010 11 to be in line with the Boards expectations.
in the medium term, we remain confident that a combination of returns from our strategic investments and relatively high margins on incremental volumes arising from the economic recovery will generate strong growth.
Tom Drury Group Chief Executive The Greenmills wet Anaerobic Digestion AD facility in Amsterdam will be the largest in Europe 19 YEAR iN REViEw
