8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 4 4 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Chief Executive Ofcers review Angus Russell, Chief Executive Officer At Shire we spent much of 2010 in the company of physicians, patients, and payorsasking them questions about the challenges they face, listening to the needs that concern them, and working to deliver sustainable value.
It is, I think, our willingness to listen and our desire to make an actual difference that enabled us to achieve, and in many ways surpass, the goals we set for ourselves.
We had numerous challenges facing us as the year began.
To begin with, there were the global macroeconomic forceshealthcare reform, payor pressures, recessionary conditionsthat faced all pharmaceutical organizations.
Beyond that, we at Shire were facing our first full year where ADDERALL XR faced generic competition, the ADHD product that had been so key to our growth in recent years.
We more than met those challenges.
Throughout the year we continued to build our global presenceopening a new international hub in Nyon, just outside Geneva, Switzerland as well as new offices in Sydney, Australia: So Paulo, Brazil: Berlin, Germany: Warsaw, Poland: and Istanbul, Turkey.
Concurrently, we promoted existing products in new territorieslaunching VYVANSE, our ADHD product, in Canada and LIALDA MEZAVANT, our ulcerative colitis product, in eight new countries.
And when manufacturing problems at a Online at http: ar2010.
com Review of our business 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 5 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 2010 product highlights VYVANSE: potential non-ADHD indicationsnew value in pipeline INTUNIV: approaching 3% US market share in the first full year REPLAGAL: sales growth 81% ELAPRASE: sales growth 14% Movetis acquisition brings RESOLOR, new therapy for chronic constipation, in women, launched in three countries LIALDA MEZAVANT: 20% market share Data provided by IMS Health National Prescription Audit.
Exit market share represents the average monthly US market share in the month ended December 31, 2010. competitor precipitated a global shortfall of medicines for no other treatment option.
A licensing deal with Acceleron, patients with Type 1 Gaucher disease and Fabry disease, meanwhile, granted us ex-North American rights to Act RIIB Shire responded with herculean effortsaccelerating the molecules, which could become an exciting new platform approval and launch of VPRIV for the former, and meeting technology: these molecules include ACE-031, which increased demand for REPLAGAL so that Fabry patients is in development for the treatment of Duchenne muscular would have uninterrupted supply of their medications.
dystrophy, a severe form of muscular dystrophy in males that ultimately leads to muscle failure and, sadly, to death.
Our global expansion was mirrored by gains achieved through lifecycle management, organic growth, and acquisition.
Internally, work continued on intrathecal delivery mechanisms We gained agreements to broaden the label for VYVANSE, designed to deliver proteins across the blood brain barrier for making VYVANSE the first oral, long-acting stimulant for patients with central nervous system-manifested rare orphan ADHD proven to enhance attention at 14 hours post dose in diseases: key opinion leaders have expressed great optimism adults.
VYVANSE was also approved, over the course of the based on the trials weve undertaken thus far.
At the same year, for use in the US in adolescents, and for use in pediatrics time, we explored the possible application of VYVANSE in Brazil: well be launching both indications in 2011 and in both major depressive disorder and excessive daytime well be continuing to broaden understanding of the disease sleepiness and are pleased with the promising results of early through new education and disease awareness programs.
Work continued, also, on expanding the label of and applications for INTUNIV, our non-stimulant ADHD By acquiring Belgium-based Movetis, we were able to add product that works particularly well in combination with RESOLOR to our portfolio, a new chemical entity with other stimulant ADHD products.
significant composition of matter patent protection indicated for symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation in women The year also saw us completing our $500 million in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.
RESOLOR investment in manufacturing facilitiesfacilities that will is in early launch phase in the United Kingdom and Germany enable us to enhance the production of medicines for and our newly expanded gastrointestinal GI team is rare orphan diseases.
We built new internal systems preparing further rollouts across Europe.
This drug is throughout the year, developed more efficient ways specifically targeted to deliver benefit to patients who have to manage promotional materials and product supplies, 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 6 6 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Chief Executive Ofcers review You have to want to beand work to bethe company that physicians, patients, policymakers, payors, and investors all trust to responsibly deliver value.
You have to keep patients at the heart of all you do.
broadened our compliance programs, and made When I travel the world, I am eager to listento find out how responsible business thinking and practices an integral part the pricing authorities in Australia and Brazil, for example, of everyday operations.
And Shire itself became a stronger are managing complex demands, or how policymakers in company as we hired talented new people all around the United States and Europe are responding to healthcare the world, supported existing employees with training, needs and pressures.
I am committed to taking what I hear performance management, and leadership development and learn and, together with my great leadership team and programs, and acknowledged some of the best of our the more than 4,000 people of Shire, developing the right best through the annual CEO Awards program.
Brave culture continues to inspire broad thinking and extraordinary action.
It remains our firm foundation.
We are well on our way to meeting the aspirational goals that we defined for ourselves back in 2008.
Were now We emerged from the year in a particularly favorable position looking ahead with optimismguided by our belief that from which to look around, to ask hard questions, and whenever we are meeting the needs of patients and to imagine our future ten years on.
Our world, of course, families with innovative, truly valued products, we are also is changing.
Government budgets delivering value for our stakeholders, and improving the are under pressure.
Chronic world in which we live.
illnesses beset greater numbers of individuals.
Those tasked with paying for healthcare in this new environment have reached a tipping point.
They are demanding that new products demonstrate actual medical and societal value.
They are making it clear that they Angus Russell will no longer be paying for me-too products, no longer Chief Executive Officer supporting medicines that are not adding real value.
You have to be brave in this new environment: you have to be innovative.
You have to develop products that meet genuine needs and be willing to test them against every conceivable measure.
You have to want to beand work to bethe company that physicians, patients, policymakers, payors, and investors all trust to responsibly deliver value.
Review of our business 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 7 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 R&D pipeline Development status The Companys Product Disease area at December 31, 2010 territorial rights SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS Treatments for ADHD INTUNIV extended release guanfacine For use in combination with Registration in US Global other ADHD treatments VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate ADHD Phase 3 in EU Global INTUNIV ADHD Phase 3 in EU Global SPD 547 ADHD Phase 1 Global Treatments for Gastrointestinal diseases LIALDA mesalamine Maintenance of remission Registration in US Global in ulcerative colitis and Canada excluding Italy and 1 Latin America LIALDA mesalamine Diverticulitis Phase 3 globally Global MEZAVANT mesalazine excluding Italy and 1 Latin America RESOLOR prucalopride Chronic Constipation Males Phase 3 in EU Europe SPD 556 M0002 Ascites Phase 2 Global SPD 557 M0003 Refractory gastroesophageal Phase 2 EU and reux disease North America Treatments for diseases in other therapeutic areas FOSRENOL lanthanum carbonate Chronic kidney disease Pre-registration in the US Global in pre-dialysis patients XAGRID Essential thrombocythaemia Phase 3 in Japan Global 2 JUVISTA Improvement of Phase 2 US, Canada scar appearance and Mexico VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate For Excessive Phase 2 Global Daytime Sleepiness VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Adjunctive therapy in Phase 2 Global Major Depressive Disorder VYVANSE lisdexamfetamine dimesylate Other non ADHD Phase 2 Global indications in adults SPD 535 Arteriovenous grafts Phase 1 Global in hemodialysis patients HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES Treatment for Angioedema FIRAZYR icatibant Acute hereditary angioedema Registration in the US Global Treatment for Duchenne muscular dystrophy HGT-4510 DMD Phase 2a Global excluding 3 North America Enzyme Replacement Therapies 4 HGT-2310 Hunter Syndrome with central Phase 1 2 Global nervous system symptoms, idursulfase-IT HGT-1410 Sanlippo Syndrome Phase 1 2 Global  IIIA HGT-1110 Metachromatic Pre-clinical Global Leukodystrophy 1 Mochida Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd has rights to develop and sell LIALDA in Japan under license with Shire.
2 Phase 3 studies being conducted by Renovo in Europe.
3 As a result of a license and collaboration agreement with Acceleron.
4 Genzyme has rights to manage marketing and distribution in Japan and certain other Asia Pacific countries under a license with Shire.
