smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 8 Chief Executives statement These strong results have been achieved in a tough economic environment and demonstrate our substantial progress in delivering operational improvements and generating strong cash-flows.
We have also benefited from the strength and breadth of being a  company, with our portfolio of leading-edge, technology-driven businesses serving a broad range of geographies and markets.
The major restructuring programme and other cost saving initiatives that began some two years ago have delivered strong margin improvement despite the difficult sales environment.
While we have been effective in cutting costs, we have also continued to invest in growth opportunities such as new product development and bolt-on acquisitions.
All businesses in the Group delivered margin improvement as a result of our actions to restructure andcutcosts.
TheGroups focus on working capital management has also delivered strong free cash-flows.
Smiths Detection has achieved double-digit sales growth following difficult trading last year as it benefited from a good order flow from transportation, ports and borders and military customers.
As a result, margins have rebounded rapidly with the higher volumes.
Through its strong technology, Smiths Detection is well placed to take advantage of future market growth.
Smiths Medical has benefited substantially from the performance improvement programme initiated over two years ago.
The business has returned to growth, adjusting for the diabetes exit, and its margins are back in their target range at 21.5%.
More importantly, the operational platform is now stable and provides a sound base from which to grow the business.
John Crane has improved its underlying margins by 260 basis points to a record 20.7%.
This was achieved through cost savings and despite the pressure on sales during the period.
However, the order intake strengthened as the year progressed and second half sales were ahead by almost 4% on the prior year.
Smiths Interconnect also delivered improved second half sales driven by the military and aerospace markets, while margins Philip Bowman benefited from the restructuring programme.
Flex-Tek is heavily Chief Executive exposed to the US housing and domestic appliances markets which, for the first time in several years, showed signs of growth during the second half.
Flex-Tek increased margins through continued focus on cost reduction and site rationalisation.
8 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 9 Investing in new product development A key driver of future sales and margin growth is the launch of new products which command higher margins and deliver superior returns.
This commitment to innovation also sustains our technology leadership in many areas.
We raised company-funded investment in R&D by 5% to 93m and were successful in securing a further 13m of customerfunded investment to bring our total spend to 106m, or 3.9% of sales.
We launched a range of new products in John Crane, including a specialised bearing for power generation turbines and seals designed for the supercritical CO2 sealing needs of the growing carbon capture and enhanced oil recovery markets.
Sales in Smiths Medical benefited from the continued success of our ambulatory smart pump, CADDSolis, which is now being sold in additional markets.
In Smiths Detection, we continue to develop eqo, our body image scanner, with airport and regulatory trials underway to improve security and passenger experience.
In the past year, Smiths Detection also entered into development partnerships with Analogic, to design the next generation of checked baggage screening equipment, and with Novartis Diagnostics to develop a range of clinical tests for bacterial and viral pathogens using the established Bio-Seeq platform.
Smiths Interconnect launched a new broadband antenna, KuStream, for commercial aircraft, which is currently being installed by Row44 on the Southwest Airlines fleet to provide passengers with a variety of high data rate applications.
A focus on performance improvement Across the Group, the major restructuring programme has generated Headline earnings per share 17% further savings of 24m in the period, well ahead of our original plans.
84.6p To date, we have delivered savings of 41m and have spent 36m, with 8m in the year.
Together, the programmes are expected to produce annual savings of 50m when completed in 2011.
The total cost of these Statutory earnings per share 6% programmes is expected to be 45m.
75.3p We have also enhanced the information flow in the business through significant investment in new information systems over recent years.
Dividend per share The implementation of ERP systems at Smiths Detection, John Crane and Smith Medical were substantially completed during the year.
The 34.0p better data at Group and divisional levels has highlighted opportunities to leverage the Groups scale through Group-wide procurement Free cash-flow up 75m initiatives.
In the year, this programme generated 11m savings, 331 m principally from IT, raw materials, machine parts, utilities and freight.
Overall, the programme has delivered 20m of savings to date.
Employees around the world We have identified a further tranche of cost savings to be realised from a rationalisation of certain back-office functions to reduce overheads 23,550 across the Group.
This will also help to drive further efficiencies and benefits from the ERP systems now they are implemented.
These benefits will be achieved by using shared service centres and removing duplication across these functions within divisions.
The programme is estimated to deliver 20m of annual benefits by the financial year ending July 2013, at a cost of 19m, which will be treated as an exceptional item, with 13m of costs expected in the financial year ahead.
9 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 10 Chief Executives statement continued Efficient balance sheet management Dividend During the year, we improved significantly our cash generation and The Board has recommended a final dividend in line with last year of strengthened the balance sheet.
Following the successful issue of US 23.5p per share, making a total dividend for the year of 34.0p per share.
dollar-denominated debt last year, the maturity profile was further The final dividend will be paid on 19 November to shareholders extended through a 300m bond issue.
These notes have a seven-year registered at the close of business on 22 October.
The ex-dividend date maturity and were priced at a fixed coupon of 4.125%.
maturityis now over six years, which gives the Group long-term certainty Since March 2008, the Board has pursued a policy to rebuild dividend over its future financing.
cover to around 2.5 times over the medium term, a goal we have now Investing in growth and driving returns almost reached.
As a result, the Board intends to adopt a progressive We continued to enhance the portfolio through a targeted acquisition dividend policy for future payouts while maintaining this prudent level of programme.
Over the past three years, we have made 12 acquisitions.
We believe that this policy will enable us to retain sufficient cashSix of them have extended our footprint in the faster growing Asian flow to finance our investment in the drivers of growth.
The acquisition strategy seeks to add complementary Outlook technologies, to support geographic expansion in faster growth markets The economic environment remains uncertain and delivering sales and to leverage existing infrastructure such as sales and service centres.
growth in the short to medium term is likely to remain challenging, In October 2009, Smiths Interconnect acquired Channel Microwave, a although the Group is well positioned to benefit from a recovery California-based microwave components business, focused on the whenever that occurs.
Our focus for the year ahead is to drive margin defence and homeland security markets.
In April 2010, Smiths enhancement through the further cost savings due from our $188m, InterconnectDevices, Inc. aleading restructuring and site rationalisation programmes.
As we have already connector company with an international presence, and a strong base accelerated the delivery of some of the benefits from these in North America and China.
The integration of both these acquisitions programmes, however, the effect on the rate of future profit growth will is substantially complete, with both performing ahead of expectations.
be more muted in the coming year.
We will also seek to maintain strong The Group has continued to focus on improving returns on capital by cash generation which will enable us to continue investing in the enhancing margins while operating an efficient capital base.
This has long-term growth drivers of new product development, acquisitions, delivered a significant improvement in headline return on capital and expansion in faster growing developing markets.
employed, up 190 basis points to 16.6%.
Targeting performance improvement In September 2008, we set out ranges for sales growth and margins for each of the divisions based on what we believed the businesses could achieve over the medium term in an economic environment consistent with that of recent years.
Since then we have seen a fundamental deterioration in world economies and, although it will be harder to operate within these ranges in the near term, those targets remain in place.
In the current environment it will take longer to achieve them: particularly sales growth, which will be harder to deliver than improved margins where we have greater control over driving cost reductions and operating efficiencies.
Nonetheless, we have made good progress this year, with three divisions delivering margins within their target ranges, and we remain focused on driving further improvements.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010
