Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace In 2010, the top five pharmaceutical markets in the world remained The world pharmaceutical market grew by the US, Japan, Germany, France and China, with the US representing 5.2%in 2010 and more people than ever 40.9% of global prescription pharmaceutical sales 2009: 41.2%.
around the world had access to modern Growth drivers medicines, including more patients in emerging Expanding patient populations markets.
Indeed, as the World pharmaceutical The world population has doubled in the last 50 years from three markets gure below shows, average revenue billion to over six billion and is expected to reach nine billion by 2050.
In addition, the number of people who can access modern growth in Emerging Markets was, at nearly standards of healthcare continues to increase, particularly among 14%, more than three times the rate in the elderly, who represent a rising proportion of populations in Established Markets.
Furthermore, faster-developing economies, such as China, India While demand for medicines and world pharmaceutical markets, and Brazil, offer new opportunities for the industry to help an especially Emerging Markets, continued to grow in 2010, researchexpanding number of patients who can benefit from medicines.
based pharmaceutical companies faced a challenging marketplace.
Emerging Markets now represent approximately 85% of the world Pricing pressures intensied in most Established Markets with population.
In addition, their pharmaceutical revenues grew increased competition from generic medicines and greater signicantly faster than those in Established Markets in 2010 and, constraints being placed on our business by payers.
In addition, as the Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014 gure industry-wide R&D productivity continued to decline.
opposite shows, it is estimated that this trend will continue.
10 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2009-2014 Key Estimated sales 2014 Estimated growth 2009-2014 compound annual growth rate North America Sales $398.1bn Growth 4.4% CIS Sales $26.6bn Growth 10.5% Europe EU countries Sales $261.7bn Growth 3.0% Europe Non EU countries Sales $26.3bn Growth 4.8% South East & East Asia Sales $132.0bn Growth 17.7% South Asia Sales $26.1bn Growth 14.2% Japan Sales $115.5bn Growth 4.0% Africa Sales $20.9bn Growth 8.6% Latin America Sales $94.4bn Growth 13.4% Oceania Sales $15.0bn Growth 4.6% Middle East Sales $13.3bn Growth 8.6% Source: IMS Health.
Unmet medical need design and testing of novel compounds, new opportunities also In most established markets, ageing populations and certain exist for the use of innovative small molecules as new medicines.
lifestyle choices such as smoking, a poor diet and lack of exercise Most pharmaceutical companies now pursue both small molecules drive an increased incidence of chronic diseases such as cancer, and biologics R&D.
cardiovascular metabolic and respiratory diseases which require long-term management.
The prevalence of chronic disease is The challenges increasing in middle-income countries and is now beginning to Pricing pressure have an impact in the least developed countries.
For example, Most of our sales continue to be generated in highly regulated WHO research shows that about 90% of the premature deaths markets where governments exert various levels of control on from non-communicable diseases are in developing countries, pricing and reimbursement.
Cost containment in healthcare, amounting to more than eight million deaths annually.
WHO including containment of pharmaceutical spending, continues to estimates that, if nothing is done, deaths from these diseases be a focus.
The global economic downturn has enhanced this will increase by a further 17% before 2015, with Africa seeing the focus and the pricing and reimbursement environments in many greatest increase of 27%, compared with 6% in Europe.
markets continue to be highly dynamic.
Advances in science and technology In March 2010, President Barack Obama signed into law the Innovation leading to new drugs is critical to meeting unmet Affordable Care Act.
It is intended to expand healthcare coverage medical need.
Existing drugs will continue to be important in and improve healthcare delivery while reducing the federal budget meeting the growing demand for healthcare, particularly as the deficit and sets in motion significant changes to the US healthcare increasing use of generic medication improves access and frees system, the worlds largest.
Healthcare reform implementation up total healthcare funds.
At the same time, advances in disease impacts the pharmaceutical industry signicantly, with some understanding and the application of new technologies will be provisions directly targeting the sector.
Expansion of healthcare required to ensure the delivery of new medicines.
Such approaches coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured people and the include personalised healthcare and predictive science as well as enhanced focus on ensuring quality healthcare will potentially other new therapeutic modalities.
increase patient access to appropriate treatments, including prescription medicines.
Efforts to expand access to government The use of large molecules, or biologics, is becoming an healthcare programmes require additional sources of funding.
increasingly important source of innovation.
Forecasts for 2016 The pharmaceutical industry, including AstraZeneca, has shown predict that of the worlds top 100 pharmaceutical products, 48% its commitment to these efforts through its agreement, among of sales will come from biologics.
This compares with only 31% in other things, to help close the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D 2009 and 15% in 2000.
With advances in the technologies for the prescription drug programme and by paying an annual industry fee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace 11 Our Strategy and Performance While many of the coverage expansion provisions do not take effect to the management of known and emerging risks, both before and after a medicine is approved.
At the same time, there is growing until 2014, the legislation will have an immediate and direct impact on healthcare activities across stakeholders in the US healthcare public demand for access to and transparency of data, especially clinical data, to understand the overall risk and benefit and the system.
More generally, it will have broad implications for how healthcare is delivered, covered and reimbursed.
The pharmaceutical rationale for a health authoritys decisions.
While transparency and co-operation between health authorities today is becoming industry is working with policymakers and regulators during the implementation phases of healthcare reform with a view to ensuring routine, this co-operation does not always lead to identical regulatory outcomes.
that they strike a balance between containing costs, while also promoting an environment that fosters medical innovation.
Clinical trials are being conducted across a number of countries and regions.
This requires a comprehensive understanding of In Germany, Europes largest pharmaceutical market, healthcare reforms brought into force this year are set to have a significant the differing regional determinants of safety, efcacy and clinical practice, as well as knowledge of local ethics, human subject long-term impact on the demands being placed on pharmaceutical manufacturers to produce information and evidence from clinical protection and good clinical practice requirements.
In order to support the registration of our products in a given regulatory trials.
In addition, these reforms include a number of short-term measures to lower Germanys healthcare spending, including jurisdiction, programmes providing foreign clinical trial data must meet the requirements of local health authorities to ensure provisions that allow for an increase in mandatory rebates and a freeze on drug prices.
Similar short-term measures have been relevance to their specic population.
implemented as a direct response to economic challenges in several other European markets in 2010, including Spain, Portugal Health authorities are also increasingly interested in the efcacy and Greece.
Each of these markets has either imposed price of pharmaceuticals after they have been approved, which can also cuts, or increased mandatory rebates on pharmaceutical result in additional regulations.
This trend reects the increasing products.
These actions present a considerable challenge for pressures from both health technology assessors and payers to the research-based pharmaceutical industry.
assess not only the safety of our products but also their relative effectiveness in the healthcare system.
Nevertheless, pricing remains one of the principal levers that countries can use to stimulate pharmaceutical innovation and Competition investment.
Recognition of this has led to a number of positive Our main competitors are other research-based pharmaceutical developments, such as exemptions in Japan, the worlds second companies that develop and sell innovative, patent-protected largest pharmaceutical market for certain innovative medicines prescription medicines and vaccines, as well as smaller from the countrys biennial price cuts.
More information regarding the impact of price controls and Generic versions of drugs are very competitive because reductions, as well as the impact of healthcare reform in the US, can manufacturers of generic drugs price them at a signicantly lower be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page level than the innovator equivalents.
This is partly because generic 96.
The principal aspects of price regulation in our major markets manufacturers do not invest the same amounts in R&D or market are described further in the Geographical Review from page 70. development as research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore do not need to recoup that investment.
Such competition R&D productivity has traditionally occurred when patents expire, but can also occur where the validity of patents is being disputed or has been Over the last 30 years, investment in R&D in the US has increased from $2 billion to $45 billion a year, whereas approvals by the FDA successfully challenged before expiry.
Such early challenges by generics to patents on innovative products have increased and have generally remained at 25-30 a year.
Against this background, the research-based pharmaceutical industry is pursuing increased generic companies are increasingly willing to launch generic products at risk, in other words, prior to resolution of the relevant productivity to ensure a strong pipeline of commercially viable medicines for launch.
The challenge now is greater than ever with patent litigation.
This can result in significant market presence for the generic equivalent of an innovative product during the period the pursuit of newer, more challenging biological targets.
In an attempt to increase the quality of candidates progressed through in which such patent litigation remains unresolved, even though the courts may subsequently rule that such product is properly development, novel paradigms are being employed for less well-validated targets, while clinical proof of concept is now protected by a valid patent.
The unpredictable nature of such patent litigation has led innovators to seek to settle such challenges on the dening measure of success.
terms acceptable to both innovator and generic manufacturer.
However, some competition authorities have sought to challenge Organisationally, companies are addressing this challenge in a variety of ways.
Some companies are employing Lean business the scope or even availability of settlement agreements of this type.
improvement tools and or shared risk operating models to bring potential drug candidates to the proof of concept milestone.
To date, biologics have sustained longer life-cycles than traditional Others have sought to increase output with limited incremental pharmaceuticals and have faced less generic competition.
This is cost or restructured R&D functions to promote innovation and because the manufacturing process for biologics is generally more entrepreneurship.
Some companies have acquired others with complex than it is for small molecule medicines, and it is signicantly synergistic development pipelines.
harder to produce an identical copy of a biologic than it is a small molecule medicine.
However, some biologics are, or will become, subject to competition from biosimilars as regulatory authorities in Regulatory requirements Pharmaceuticals is one of the most regulated industries.
This Europe and the US continue implementing abbreviated approvals processes for biosimilars.
reects the public interest in safeguarding patients.
While efforts to harmonise these regulations globally are increasing, their number and impact continue to grow, thereby raising the cost of doing business.
Given the nature and geographic scope of our business, we maintain important interactions with many health authority regulatory bodies in numerous countries.
In our largest markets, these bodies include the FDA in the US, and the European Commission and the EMA in the EU.
Regulators are also continuing to apply a more systematic approach to safety assessment and 12 Our Strategy and Performance Our marketplace AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Acute coronary syndromes or ACS is a term used to describe sudden chest pain and other symptoms caused by an insufficient blood supply to the heart.
They are the most common manifestation of coronary heart disease CHD with over 2.5 million occurrences in the developed world each year.
Despite the availability of current treatment options, data suggests that up to 15% of patients die within one year of their cardiovascular event.
Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor tablets is an oral antiplatelet treatment we have developed for ACS.
The clinical development for Brilinta Brilique included the PLATO study, one of the largest clinical trials we have ever undertaken, involving 18,624 patients in 43 countries.
PLATO was designed to reect current clinical management of ACS patients and to establish whether Brilinta Brilique could improve cardiovascular outcomes beyond those afforded by clopidogrel Plavix Iscover.
The overall PLATO results demonstrated the superiority of ticagrelor in reducing heart attacks and cardiovascular death in patients with ACS.
The data has provided the basis for regulatory lings worldwide.
For more than half a century, AstraZeneca has been at the forefront of R&D in cardiovascular diseases.
Brilinta Brilique was discovered at our laboratories in the UK and represents another example of our commitment to developing and delivering innovative medicines that make a meaningful difference to patient health.
Who can help me survive a heart attack?
Because health connects us all For more information go to the Therapy Area Review from page 50.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
