It is the manner in which we do business as much as what we do that will determine our long-term success David R Brennan Chief Executive Of cer Operational highlights 1 $5bn Single R&D organisation in place Annual Crestor and Seroquel sales exceeded $5 billion each Achieved major market approvals for Vimovo and Brilique Brilinta: made submissions for dapagli ozin and Zinforo, but disappointments on other pipeline products 8% $5.1bn Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the Revenue in Emerging Markets grew to over DowJones Sustainability World and $5.1 billion, a 16% increase European Indexes 8 Chief Executive Of cers Review AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executive Ofcers Review products from our current portfolio and pipeline and also through 2010 emphasised that it is the manner in which selective additions of AstraZeneca branded generics.
In 2010, we do business as much as what we do that we identied a portfolio of more than 100 generic products which will determine our long-term success.
It told us we are currently licensing across 30 Emerging Markets.
To help us license these dossiers and source the molecules, we are that, if we are to deliver our strategy and make working with a number of companies in India, and have signed an a meaningful difference to the health of patients agreement with Torrent to supply us with a portfolio of branded through great medicines, then we need to act generic medicines.
with integrity and remain true to our values.
We We are creating a much stronger focus on those who pay for need to behave as an integrated organisation our medicines to help us ensure that our medicines get to the and work in collaboration with patients, doctors, right patients, at the right time and at a price they can afford, while reecting our investment.
As part of this, we have signed payers and our many other stakeholders.
a collaboration agreement with HealthCore, which maintains the largest commercially insured population data environment in the Transforming R&D US.
This will enable us to carry out real world studies of health That journey starts with an R&D organisation that delivers worldoutcomes, which is of increasing importance to payers around class performance and where increased externalisation means the world.
we can access diverse sources of innovation.
We made significant progress in 2010 with the creation of a single R&D organisation In April 2010, we signed an agreement with the US Department of and of a leadership team comprising the best internal and external Justice to settle an investigation relating to the sales and marketing leaders.
This includes the appointment of Martin Mackay as of Seroquel.
The requirements of the associated Corporate Integrity President, Global R&D.
We have also put in place a new global Agreement include a number of active monitoring and self-reporting organisation structure and governance framework.
We are obligations which we have put in place.
consolidating our site footprint and have refocused our resources on a smaller number of high-potential activities.
efficiency across the value chain To be successful we need to be a lean and agile organisation.
The need for change is undiminished.
Our R&D record over the We continue to drive our operations strategy, simplifying and past few years is disappointing and our results in 2010 were mixed.
streamlining our infrastructure and reducing costs.
Making changes On the positive side, Vimovo, our medicine for arthritic pain, which to reshape the business and make it t for purpose going forward we developed with Pozen Inc. was approved and launched in the affects a large number of people.
In many parts of the business that EU and the US.
Brilique Brilinta, our treatment for acute coronary has resulted in further reductions in our workforce.
The executive syndromes, has also been approved in the EU.
Kombiglyze XR, team and I remain committed to ensuring that we manage these a xed dose combination of Onglyza and metformin, a further changes in the right way.
This means dealing responsibly and product in our BMS diabetes collaboration, was approved in sympathetically with affected individuals and the communities in the US.
In 2010, we made major regulatory submissions for vandetanib People acting with integrity for thyroid cancer, Zinforo an anti-bacterial medicine, dapagliozin A good reputation is critical to our business success.
We need to for diabetes and Axanum a cardiovascular medicine.
We completed earn and maintain the trust of our customers, collaborators and all a deal with Rigel for the Phase III development of fostamatinib for those with whom we do business.
That means each of us needs to rheumatoid arthritis, and TC-5214, our neuroscience collaboration act with integrity and in accordance with our values.
It explains why with Targacept, also entered Phase III development.
we set such great store by compliance with our Code of Conduct.
During 2010, we reviewed our existing sales and marketing policies However, both Brilinta and Axanum received Complete Response and standards and created a single new Global Policy on External Letters from the FDA during the year.
We responded to the Interactions which we aim to launch in the first quarter of 2011.
Brilinta letter in January 2011 and remain confident in our submission.
Complete Response Letters were also received for motavizumab A good reputation also requires a commitment to acting responsibly for treating serious respiratory syncytial virus RSV disease and and to the sustainable development of our business.
To that end, Certriad for the treatment of lipid abnormalities.
Following these our responsible business objectives are closely aligned to our letters, we have withdrawn the biological license application business strategy and, in 2010, we reviewed and reshaped our relating to motavizumab and recorded an impairment charge of corporate responsibility priority action plan.
In addition, we have ended our licence agreement with Abbott for the development of Certriad.
Finally, I am grateful for the dedication and hard work of all our employees.
The pace of change will not let up in 2011 but Leveraging our commercial assets I remain confident that together we have the talent, motivation Hand in hand with transforming R&D is the need to leverage our and commitment needed to improve patient health through commercial assets.
Our key medicines, such as Crestor, Symbicort great medicines.
and Seroquel XR, achieved double digit growth in 2010.
Both Crestor and Seroquel XR were helped by US and EU approvals for David R Brennan additional indications.
Nexium is already approved in 120 countries Chief Executive officer and in 2010 we signed an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for its co-promotion and supply in Japan after it is approved for use.
We are also focusing our efforts on ensuring that we have the right capabilities to successfully launch and commercialise the next wave of medicines from our pipeline, as well as to deliver our expansion plans in Emerging Markets, both through organic growth of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chief Executive Ofcers Review 9
