chief executive Officers revieW The fundamental drivers for growth in our industry are strong, as consumers and businesses demand anytime, anywhere, always-on access to data, applications and services.
Bill Burns Chief Executive Officer 8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Executing on our strategy delivered profitable growth for Spirent and This is an exciting time within the telecom and a strong overall financial performance in 2010 which enabled us to data communication industries with increasing increase sales by 13 per cent and adjusted basic earnings per share investment in both proven and emerging by 31 per cent year-on-year.
Spirent delivers best in class financial technologies driving demand for our leading performance compared to its peers.
Our pace of innovation leads the test and measurement market.
The key elements of our strategy are test solutions.
2010 was an excellent year for to focus on growing and emerging technology markets, to invest in Spirent one in which we delivered a strong our people and to utilise innovation to deliver the right solutions performance through the execution of our to the global market at the right time.
These strategic goals have strategy.
Our broad test solution portfolio been furthered through the hard work, dedication and enthusiasm of our people.
It is key to Spirents success and future that we continue coupled with our global reach gives us the to develop our employees, reward them and recognise their ability to pursue further profitable growth in critical contribution.
Spirents solutions span all major technologies and serve all major Markets and strategy customer segments across the telecommunication industry.
We have The fundamental drivers for growth in our industry are strong, as prioritised engineering development spending on areas that matter consumers and businesses demand anytime, anywhere, always-on most to customers such as the evolution of wireless technologies to access to data, applications and services.
As a result, service 4G LTE, high speed Ethernet, next-generation data centers, wireless provider and enterprise IT spending has returned, either to seek new infrastructure and application performance.
Our worldwide sales revenue streams or to resolve challenges associated with network and service organisation has industry leading capability, serving capacity and performance.
Spirents expertise is in delivering test over 1,300 customers globally across all segments including network solutions that capitalise on data center transformation, cloud equipment manufacturers, mobile device manufacturers, service computing, the concept of Ethernet everywhere, the proliferation providers, enterprise and governments as we enable the of new wireless devices and infrastructure, and applications that development of technology from inception to deployment in enrich our lives.
Outlook The outlook is promising with our customers making new investments to bring next-generation technologies to market, as a result we are confident that the market for test and measurement will show further growth in 2011 and future years.
Ethernet, wireless device and positioning test markets all show positive signs for growth in 2011.
We continue to invest in new test solutions and in enhancing our current capabilities in the areas that matter most to our customers as they look to improve time to market of their industry leading products and services.
We enter the year with the industrys broadest and, we believe, most innovative test solution portfolio.
Additional investment in product development to drive innovation coupled with a relentless focus on executing our strategy will enable Spirent to continue to prosper.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 9 chief executive Officers revieW CONTINUED Our strategy Our vision is to be the global leader in growing and emerging test and measurement markets.
strategy description 2010 achievements The growth of communications networks continues to be driven by the demand for anytime, anywhere connectivity.
At Spirent we make Spirent closely monitors the ever-changing trends across the We once again focused on telecommunications growth markets, use of our deep understanding of communications trends and communications landscape, strategically reallocating resources including LTE networks and devices, cloud computing, global technologies, together with our close customer relationships, to Focus on growing and to address growing and emerging markets.
positioning and high speed Ethernet.
identify growing and emerging market opportunities.
Attracting and retaining the best and brightest people in the industry enables emerging markets Spirent to develop the most innovative and complete test and measurement solutions to address these opportunities.
Attracting and retaining highly qualified and The profitable growth that we achieved in 2010 enabled us to find We maintain a high rate of investment in our solutions portfolio, skilled employees is central to enabling us to deliver on our strategy ways to recognise and reward our employees for their hard work and enabling us to bring solutions to market at the point in technology and to the success of our business.
Appropriate career paths and for the success of Spirent.
We continued to work hard to nurture an Invest in our people and market cycles when our customers most need them.
Our internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical environment in which the innovation and collaboration critical to solutions are used to develop and deploy the best devices, networks and non-technical staff.
and applications, helping enrich peoples lives, whether theyre consumers, employed by a business enterprise or work for a government entity.
As a trusted partner to over 1,300 global Remaining at the leading edge of technology is critical to our Building on our earlier Spirent TestCenter Virtual innovation, we customers, Spirents global reach allows us to assist these continued success.
We apply our creativity to the development of released our Avalanche Virtual solution for testing the performance, organisations, wherever they are located, to transition from legacy tools and methodologies to meet our customers complex needs for availability, security and scalability of virtualized network appliances Innovation to emerging and next-generation technologies.
Spirent remains testing and assuring communications and IT equipment, networks and cloud based applications.
We also introduced innovative dedicated to retaining its position at the forefront of the ever-evolving and applications.
solutions for testing LTE mobile devices and Wi-Fi positioning.
communications industry, understanding that market leadership plays an important part in sustaining profitable growth.
We invest in development across our product and service portfolio During 2010, we released over 50 new products and additions of new at a level that enables us to bring the most advanced test solutions functionality in key technology areas including cloud computing, Evolve our to market.
high speed Ethernet and LTE.
solutions portfolio We enable our customers to bring new products and technologies Staying close to our customers enabled us to bring to market high to market in the shortest amount of time by making available the performance 40 100G test modules, at the appropriate time to meet Right Solution solutions they need, when they need them.
the demands of the earliest 40G Ethernet technology developers.
at the Right Time We have built world-class sales and service organisations We continued to expand our sales and service capabilities in that enable Spirent to develop and maintain strong customer growth markets, especially in Asia Pacific.
We also grew our relationships around the globe.
product development capacity in China.
Global reach 10 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements strategy description 2010 achievements Spirent closely monitors the ever-changing trends across the We once again focused on telecommunications growth markets, communications landscape, strategically reallocating resources including LTE networks and devices, cloud computing, global Focus on growing and to address growing and emerging markets.
emerging markets Spirent is its employees.
Attracting and retaining highly qualified and The profitable growth that we achieved in 2010 enabled us to find skilled employees is central to enabling us to deliver on our strategy ways to recognise and reward our employees for their hard work and and to the success of our business.
We continued to work hard to nurture an Invest in our people internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical environment in which the innovation and collaboration critical to and non-technical staff.
Remaining at the leading edge of technology is critical to our Building on our earlier Spirent TestCenter Virtual innovation, we continued success.
We apply our creativity to the development of released our Avalanche Virtual solution for testing the performance, tools and methodologies to meet our customers complex needs for availability, security and scalability of virtualized network appliances Innovation testing and assuring communications and IT equipment, networks and cloud based applications.
We also introduced innovative and applications.
Global reach Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 11 chief executive Officers revieW CONTINUED What we test example: Spirent provides hardware and software tools and test methodologies that enable testing of the performance of network equipment, devices and applications during the User Emulation Wireless Content Delivery development phase.
We apply the expertise gained through this testing to our service assurance solutions, which allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues within live networks.
Unified Core Ethernet has become the fide facto standard for service providers, as well as the enterprise, across all aspects of the network, from access to the edge to the core, due to its cost 2G effectiveness, scale and ability to support a wide range of applications.
Spirents leadership 3G 4G in Ethernet testing allows us to benefit significantly from the sustained growth in Ethernet use across all communication and IT markets.
We test network equipment which utilises IP MPLS Ethernet Ethernet at ever-increasing scale, including switches, routers, evolved packet core network Residential Cloud Applications elements, firewalls, load balancers and intrusion detection intrusion prevention.
For service provider networks see diagram we test all service layers of the network, including those that require high data capacity and those that deliver application scale or security.
Spirent TestCenter is a single, converged performance test platform to test application experience and backhaul networks, as well as mobility, interoperability and Mobile Core 40 100G Ethernet in core networks.
We also test the service quality, security and application performance of content delivery networks, cloud applications and the internet.
Copper Fiber For the enterprise, Spirent is well positioned to benefit from the move of applications Cable into public private clouds and from the growth from Enterprise NEMs who are building next-generation cloud infrastructure and cloud service devices.
The rapid convergence of data center technologies such as storage over Ethernet, high speed Ethernet and virtual Internet Enterprise servers running multiple applications in the cloud, is pushing the boundaries of testing.
Spirent has released virtualized variants of its solutions to provide unsurpassed visibility into the entire data center infrastructure.
These take advantage of Spirents innovative PASS methodology to test the performance, availability, security and scalability of cloud computing networks.
www New testing needs for wireless devices are driven by smartphone growth and the associated exponential growth in mobile data, which leads service providers to look to Copper Fiber new technologies such as LTE and to the cost and efficiency advantages of all-IP networks.
Cable Spirent is a leader in functional, conformance and performance testing of 3G and 4G LTE devices, including smartphones and data cards.
Spirent also has a long track record as the leader in testing the performance of location technology that supports location based services on smartphones, including over-the-air testing.
Application Experience Spirent is the worldwide leader in testing GNSS receiving devices.
While GPS remains the most widely used system, others such as GLONASS, Galileo and COMPASS are gaining ground, with other positioning techniques such as use of Wi-Fi access points also growing in popularity.
Spirent is able to test the performance of all of these technologies, as they become embedded in an ever-broader range of applications, from smartphones and vehicles to aerospace and government.
12 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements service provider networks User Emu User Emu lU ation ser Emu lation lation Wirel We irs el seW ssireless Cont Cent ont D ent C eliv ont Deliv er ent yer D yelivery Unified C Unified C or Unified C eore ore 2G 2G 2G 3G 3G 3G 4G 4G 4G IP MPLS IP MPLS EIP MPLS thernet Ethernet Ethernet ResR identi esidenti a Rlesa identi l al Cloud Ap Cloud Ap p C lic loud Ap p ation lication splic sations Mob Mo ile C bilor e C Mo eor be ile Core CopC per opper Copper Fiber Fiber Fiber CabC le able Cable Internet Internet Internet Enterpri Enterpri se Ent se erprise www www www Mobility and Interoperability CopC per opper Copper Fiber Fiber Fiber High speed Ethernet CabC le able Cable Backhaul Service quality, security and application performance Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 13
