chief executives report overview of financial performance it is good to be able to report on another year of strong Brands division operating costs were down 23.4% to growth for sports direct, achieved by delivering what 54.2m 2009: 70.8m due to a combination of the we said we would.
the resilience of our business model reduction in costs in line with turnover and operational continues to add significant value to our operations by efficiencies.
also included within Group operating costs providing customers with an unrivalled depth and breadth is a 10.8m 2009: nil charge in respect of the employee of product choice at the best available prices, across all Bonus share scheme and performance share plan.
this categories and in all stores for serious sportsmen charge has been taken centrally and, except in note 4 and women.
to the accounts, is not reflected in divisional retail and Brands numbers in this report.
With a number of new stores opened during the year in the uK and europe, we are taking our offer to an ever We grew Group underlying eBitda for the Year by 17.3% to increasing customer base which is responding positively 160.4m 2009: 136.8m.
Within this underlying eBitda, to stronger in-store marketing and promotional initiatives.
the retail division increased 27.2% to 151.4m 2009: We are proud of our reputation for quality and remain as 119.0m and the Brands division increased 11.2% to determined as ever to strengthen our position as the clear 19.8m 2009: 17.8m.
market leader in the uK sports retail sector.
Group underlying profit before tax increased 49.8% to i am especially pleased that our people will benefit from 102.1m 2009: 68.2m, as a result of the 23.6m increase their contribution to Group success through our meeting in eBitda together with a 12.8m reduction in interest the first years target for the employee Bonus share payable and a 1.8m increase in depreciation.
underlying eps for the Year increased by 56.2% to 12.39p 2009: 7.93p.
Group debt reduction remains a priority for the Group.
in december 2009, we announced a target to reduce net debt in the 52 weeks ended 25 april 2010 the Year we levels to below 400m by april 2010. in fact, we actually increased Group revenue 6.2% to a record 1,452m reduced net debt to 311.9m 2009: 431.3m.
this was compared with revenue of 1,367m for the 52 weeks achieved by: ended 26 april 2009. the increase was due to a strong performance in the retail division where revenues rose growing underlying eBitda from 136.8m to 160.4m 10.9% to 1,261m 2009: 1,137m.
the Brand division revenues decreased as planned, 17.4% to 190.5m reducing inventory levels through the year from 262.3m 2009: 230.5m.
to 218.8. m reducing levels of capital expenditure by approximately 1,452m 50% to 19.4m as targeted last year 6.2% reducing financing costs by 12.8m as a result of retail ongoing low interest rates and lower level of debt from Brands 22.5m to 9.7m 2010 2009 2008 2007 saving the cost of the 2009 final and 2010 dividends in the current financial year and beyond, we will target to reduce levels of debt further to a range between one and 1.5 times underlying eBitda by april 2011.
Group gross margin in the Year fell by 20 basis points from 40.8% to 40.6%.
retail division margin fell by 50 basis points to 40.8% 2009: 41.3%, while Brands division margin increased 60 basis points to 38.9% 2009: 38.3%.
Group operating costs increased 1.4% to 431.0m 2009: 425.0m.
retail division operating costs were well controlled and increased by only 3.3% in the Year, despite an increase in floor space of 5.2% and a rise in sales of just under 11%.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Group reVenue 1,452m 1,367m 1,260m 1,347m 2010 marks Everlasts 100th Anniversary sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 7 chief executives report continued review by business segment in spite of a difficult trading environment, our strategy of For the financial year ended: focusing on our core strengths, increasing efficiencies and 25 April 2010 26 april 2009 change m m % controlling costs, delivered another strong performance.
Retail Revenue: uK retail 1,117.7 1,006.5 11.0 uK retail uK Wholesale and other 23.5 28.0 -16.1 international retail 119.9 102.3 17.2 uK retail revenues growth was primarily driven by our retail and logistics skills providing the best products at total retail revenue 1,261.1 1,136.8 10.9 the best prices with universal availability.
Gross margin 515.0 469.3 9.7 there were no major acquisitions or disposals within uK Gross margin percentage 40.8% 41.3% retail during the Year.
sales in the second half of the Year were up 7.2% to 531.7m 2009: 496.2m against strong comparatives.
the sales increase in the second half of the Year was better than expected, but was at the expense of a lower than anticipated margin.
1,261.1m 10.9% online revenue continues to grow strongly and we will uK retail look at opportunities to develop this revenue stream international further.
order fulfilment and state-of-the-art information retail Wholesale technology solutions are developed in-house with full 2010 2009 2008 2007 back-up support from our national distribution centre resources in shirebrook, derbyshire.
the website has benefited from the increased recognition of the online brand with approximately 90% of core store fascias now branded sportsdirect.
online sales represented 4.5% of total uK retail sales 2009:1.5%.
Between March For the financial year ended: and June 2010, we ran our first television advertising 25 April 2010 26 april 2009 change campaign.
We saw a subsequent increase in both productm m % specific and new customer web traffic.
a second campaign Brands Revenue: is likely to be launched in the autumn.
Wholesale 167.3 203.6 -17.8 overall uK retail gross margin for the Year fell by 120 licensing 23.2 26.9 -13.8 basis points to 41.3% 2009: 42.5%.
Margin for the second total brands revenue 190.5 230.5 -17.4 half of the Year was 40.9% 2009: 39.6%, impacted by comprehensive promotions and clearance of stock in cost of sales 116.4 142.2 -18.1 advance of the FiFa 2010 World cup World cup.
Gross margin 74.1 88.4 -16.2 at the time of the Groups interim results in december Gross margin percentage 38.9 38.3 2009, we expected sales in the second half to be lower than for the same period in 2009, with margin for the Year as a whole to be at a similar level to 2009. the actual margin for the second half was lower than expected as noted above 190.5m but this was more than compensated for by higher than expected sales partly arising from the sales generated -17.4% ahead of the World cup.
Wholesale licensing uK retail like-for-like gross contribution increased by 3.4% over the 12 month period.
2010 2009 2008 2007 operating costs increased 1.9% to 323.5m 2009: 317.6m in spite of the uK minimum wage increase, an increase in floor space and a rise in sales of just over 11%.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Brands reVenue retail reVenue 190.5m 1,261.1m 230.5m 1,136.8m 192.6m 1,066.9m 171.9m 1,175.2m The Boot Room Sportsdirect.
com store, Shirebrook sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 9 chief executives report continued uK retail continued underlying eBitda for uK retail was 138.7m 2009: We continued to work well with our major third party 107.0m.
this increase was driven by a 37.7m increase brand suppliers.
nike, umbro, adidas, reebok and puma in gross margin including wholesale, offset by a 5.9m all have their own offices in our shirebrook head office increase in operating costs.
which enables us to work very closely with them on a day to day basis.
during the Year, the office of Fair trading oFt investigated our acquisition of stores from JJB sports plc We were delighted to achieve a notable first with the JJB, and concluded that in five locations they raised creation of a purpose-built nike training academy at the some concerns.
the oFt subsequently referred the matter shirebrook site.
this is the first time nike has entered to the competition commission.
on 18 March 2010, the into such a partnership with a retail partner anywhere in competition commission cleared the acquisition of the 31 the world.
We are proud to host such a magnificent facility stores from JJB and ruled that there was not a substantial which will have its first open day on 21 July 2010 for up to lessening of competition as a result of those acquisitions, 300 of our national retail team.
nor any adverse effects on customers.
We are still dealing the academy demonstrates our commitment to develop with the oFt & serious Fraud office sFo enquiries.
While our training of staff in close partnership with our key we have heard nothing from the oFt, we have provided the third party brands.
We plan to have all permanent sales sFo with all the information they have required to date, staff attend a training session in the academy within 12 and we have reason to hope that the investigation may be months of its opening as part of their on-going training and concluded in the autumn of this year.
our goal is to have the best trained the Groups retail businesses performed strongly in a very and most knowledgeable staff in uK sports retail.
our retail model, offering We continued to build on our store-in-store concept for outstanding value to our customers, proved as resilient as certain key categories where we want to develop our role we expected it to be, both in the uK and internationally.
as the destination of choice for serious sportsmen and throughout the Year, we continued to focus on our women.
our approach to the running category typifies how fundamental approach of offering the customer the most we are doing this, constantly seeking to develop our retail comprehensive product range and the best availability offer.
since october 2007, we have owned a 25% share in while reducing our costs wherever possible.
as ever, store Brasher leisure ltd, trading as sweatshop, one of the portfolio was constantly under review, the performance leading specialist running retailers in the uK.
the strategy of each store and ways of maximising performance being for the running category within sports direct is to develop closely examined.
We continued to develop our store layout with sweatshop an attractive new sales area branded and to incentivise our store staff in ways that encourage as she runs He runs catering to the growing main better customer service and performance.
these areas deliver on range, availability, leading national distribution centre at shirebrook price, clear merchandising and self help if preferred and continued to deliver efficiencies.
By way of example of will be further enhanced by the training initiatives being cost control, in our corporate responsibility report we driven from our national training centre.
describe some of the steps successfully taken to reduce installation progress has been swift with 50% of our 300 our energy consumption at a time when energy costs were core stores already having she runs He runs sections.
the roll-out programme to other stores continues.
during spring 2010, we started construction work on an additionally, 75% of stores now feature our specialist extension to our national training Facility at shirebrook, football boot room display area.
which is located within the on-site store.
this exciting the strategy outlined on developing our running category project involved a complete reorganisation of the store will also be applied to certain other sporting areas, many layout with new attractive specialist areas being refitted.
of which are in different stages of development.
these net sales area space increased from 18,000 sq ft to include golf, outdoor and cycling.
25,000 sq ft. the store is now the blueprint for a rollout programme of updating our core stores across the on 17 March 2010, the Group made an indicative, non uK.
capital expenditure for this roll-out is included binding offer for the entire issued and to be issued share in the expected Group capital expenditure for FY11 of capital of Blacks leisure Group plc Blacks with a view approximately 35.0m 2010: 19.4m.
to seeking that companys recommendation.
We were disappointed that this was not forthcoming.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW October 2009 Dunlop Brand Ambassador lee Westwood celebrates winning the portugal Masters.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 11 chief executives report continued uK retail continued on 29 March 2010, sports direct announced that it had in the 12 months to 25 april 2010, 53 rent reviews have approached the board of Blacks to advise that it was been agreed on stores.
the average increase in rent was seriously considering a material increase in the level 9.9% 1.91% annual equivalent.
there are currently 80 of its indicative offer.
However, the Group also advised rent reviews outstanding with a further 50 falling due in that it had become aware of indications that some 2010-11. key Blacks suppliers would not supply the company if For a number of years, our uK retail division has occupied the sports direct offer was successful.
sports direct 32 stores which are owned by Mike ashley, the Groups requested confirmation of, and the details underlying, major shareholder, under the terms of a five year lease any such supplier indications to Blacks.
in the event, this dated March 2007. the management intend to discuss with information was neither provided nor denied.
accordingly, shareholders and Mr ashley the possibility of obtaining sports direct determined that it would not be in its a years extension to the current term together with an shareholders interests formally to submit an offer.
option to purchase these properties during the extension Blacks subsequently raised additional capital from its period at a price no more than original cost.
would require non-related party shareholder approval and We did not participate in this fundraising, believing it not to would contain terms whereby it would be exercised only if be the best use of the Groups funds.
it were demonstrably in the Groups interest to do so.
as of 25 april 2010, we operated 387 stores in the uK in the current financial Year, we are targeting to open excluding northern ireland, a total retail sales space of between six and ten new core stores in the uK, excluding circa 3.7m sq ft 2009: circa 3.5m sq ft. northern ireland.
during the course of the Year, we opened 34 stores, We will continue to open temporary non-core stores as including nine core stores, and closed six, one of which suitable opportunities arise and convert as many of these was core.
We have taken advantage of the weaker property as is justified to long term deals.
market during the Year by taking 19 of the 25 new non-core stores on initial temporary lease licence arrangements.
this has enabled us to work very closely with landlords international retail to exploit opportunities, with a view to converting initial temporary stores into long term lease agreements where international retail sales were up 17.2% to 119.9m appropriate.
on a currency neutral basis, the increase was 11.0%.
com fascias, 19 Field & trek, three lillywhites and 59 other stores international retail grew gross margin by 40 basis points Gilesports, Hargreaves, etc.
due to improved stock control.
retail stores: operating costs within international retail increased by 16.1% to 42.5m 2009: 36.6m.
the increase was less 2010 than the 8.1m increase in gross margin and, together with 2009 a 1.5m decrease in income from associates, resulted in an increase in underlying eBitda of 5.8% to 12.7m 300 core stores: 2009: 12.0m.
292 internationally, as at 25 april 2010 we operated 44 stores 87 non-core stores: in Belgium, 12 in slovenia, four in Holland, three in cyprus, 67 one in France and one in luxembourg.
all of these stores are operated by companies wholly owned by the Group.
387 total uK stores: We opened seven new stores in europe, including two 359 relocations in the period including our first store in France.
We closed four smaller stores during the Year.
as at 25 0 400 april 2010, international retail operated from a total retail sales space of c. 650,000 sq ft 2009: c. 620,000 sq ft. section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW European Golf Sportsdirect.
com store, Shirebrook sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 13 chief executives report continued international retail continued the Group increased its shareholding in the Heatons chain operating costs decreased by 23.4% to 54.2m 2009: to 50%, up from 42.5%.
there are 11 sports direct stores 70.8m, partly as a result of the lower revenue.
the in northern ireland and 23 sports stores in the republic consolidation of the Brands division management into of ireland.
shirebrook continued and costs were tightly controlled as systems and working practices were standardised.
payroll We continue with our strategy to identify partners in new costs in the division reduced significantly.
territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
our continued aim is to limit costs in the 2011 financial year such that the wholesale contribution covers operating costs and all licensing income is retained as profit.
Brands underlying eBitda increased 11.2% to 19.8m 2009: 17.8m as the decrease in costs of 16.6m was greater Brands total revenue reduced 17.4% to 190.5m 2009: than the decrease in gross profit of 14.3m.
230.5. m, driven by our deliberate strategy to change the mix of sales from predominantly wholesale to licensing.
cash flow in the division was strong with tight working capital management resulting in a reduction in stock and Wholesale revenues were down 17.8% to 167.3m 2009: debtors of 15.1m and 19.6m respectively.
203.6m, in line with this strategy to focus on contribution rather than revenue.
this strategy is well illustrated by our the business continues to sponsor and receive north america market move from wholesale to licensing in endorsements from leading players and tournaments dunlop Golf.
including slazengers 107th year as the official ball supplier for the Wimbledon championships.
We believe the market for our Wholesale businesses in the uK, this to be one of the longest continuous sponsorship europe and the us remain challenging and the customer arrangements anywhere in the world.
slazenger continues base has been restructured to eliminate unprofitable to sponsor Matt prior and paul collingwood and we business.
congratulate paul as englands captain at the recent icc World twenty20 cricket competition where england licensing revenues were down 13.8% to 23.2m 2009: scored a notable victory over australia to win the 26.9m which was in line with our expectations and, in tournament, who were also captained by slazenger light of our decision to cancel one significant everlast endorsee Michael clarke.
licence, with the attendant costs.
dunlop has recently signed nikolay davydenko and tough market conditions, particularly in north america, Fernando Verdasco, both ranked in the worlds top 10 resulted in decreased licensing income during the Year tennis players.
lee Westwood, number 3 in the world with key licensees leading to a fall in the level of income in rankings, continues to shine in the worlds top golf excess of the licence minimums.
We continue, however, to tournaments under the sponsorship of dunlop apparel.
lay the foundations for future growth.
during the Year, we signed new licence agreements with 71 licensees, covering multiple brands and product categories, with minimum contracted values of $87m over the terms of the agreements.
longer term, we regard licensing as the key driver for the Brands division profitability and growth of the business.
our resources have been adjusted in order to focus on this objective.
the main growth areas are expected to be asia pacific and the americas.
Brands gross margin improved to 38.9% 2009: 38.3%, reflecting the improved mix of sales and a slight improvement in wholesale gross margin to 30.4% 2009: 30.2%.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW May 2010 Slazenger Brand Ambassador & England Captain paul Collingwood reacts after scoring the winning runs in the Mens ICC World Twenty20 final match between Australia and England.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 15 chief executives report continued Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development and Key performance indicators performance of the Groups businesses the Board monitors the performance of the Group by the Groups retail businesses will undoubtedly be affected reference to a number of key performance indicators by the economic climate and changes therein.
Movements Kpis, which are discussed fully in this chief executives in interest rates and exchange rates affect the businesses report, and also in the Financial review, and in the directly and consumer confidence and spending is affected corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 35 and 58 by a wide range of factors including employment, tax and to 61 respectively.
the most important of these Kpis are: interest rates, house prices and the general feel good factor, factors beyond the Groups influence.
We are For the financial year ended: relieved that the Government has given plenty of warning 25 April 2010 26 april 2009 that the Vat increase to 20% will not take place until 4 January 2011.
Financial KpIs Group revenue 1,452m 1,367m all of the above apply equally to our Brands businesses, 1 both wholesale and licensing.
reduction in customer underlying eBitda 160.4m 136.8m demand is reflected in the wholesaling and licensing uK retail gross margin 41.3% 42.5% business, as orders and royalties are affected.
Moreover, in uK retail like-for-like stores gross 2 difficult economic times, suppliers come under increasing contribution 3.4% 2.5% pressure to reduce their prices to their customers and all 3 underlying earnings per share 12.39p 7.93p suppliers run the risk of their customers ceasing to trade, reducing demand for their products.
difficult economic Financial KpIs conditions can also make it difficult for suppliers to obtain 4 no.
of core stores 300 292 credit insurance in respect of some customers, leaving customer complaints % change 4.0% -7.5% the supplier with a difficult question of whether or not to employee turnover 17.0% 29.0% supply and, if they do, with the attendant risk of bad debts.
cardboard recycling 5,847 tonnes 6,007 tonnes later in this report, we comment on risks and uncertainties that relate to the Groups businesses and 1 the way in which underlying eBitda is calculated is set out in the Financial review.
while we manage to reduce risks, where possible, the 2 likelihood of their occurring and their impact if they do, like-for-like gross contribution for uK retail is the percentage change in successive 12 month periods.
like-for-like gross contribution is adjusted to eliminate the impact they are factors that could influence the Group or part of it.
a like-for-like store is one that has been trading for the full 12 months in both periods, and has not been affected by a significant change such as the Group is now applying hedge accounting, which is in a refit.
store gross contribution is the excess of sales revenue net of Vat over the cost of goods sold.
this Kpi excludes online sales revenue.
the gross contribution would only line with other major retailers.
this will reduce an element be adjusted if a significant promotion affected the comparison.
of potential volatility in reported profit.
3 the way in which underlying earnings per share is calculated is set out in the Financial review.
4 a core store is a store acquired and fitted out by the Group or otherwise so designated.
environmental matters a review of the assessment of the Groups impact on the contracts essential to the environment is included in the corporate responsibility business of the Group report on page 58. the Group has long established relationships with nike and adidas, the major suppliers of third party branded employees sporting goods, particularly footwear, and considers that continued supplies from these companies is critical to the in no small measure, the progress we continue to make business of the Group.
is down to the dedication and expertise of over 17,000 staff throughout the business.
i am delighted to take this opportunity to thank everyone in the team for their outstanding contribution and i look forward to working with them towards our further growth and success.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Nike football Sportsdirect.
com store, Belgium sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 17 chief executives report continued risks and uncertainties relating employees continued to the Groups business We intend to incentivise staff further by enabling them to risks are an inherent part of the business world.
the share in the Groups success through a new Bonus share Group has identified the following factors as potential risks scheme for which we will seek approval at the aGM.
the to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation Bonus share scheme is focused on underlying eBitda.
is designed to motivate colleagues, help improve retention supplY cHain of key employees and to align the interests of employees any disruption or other adverse event affecting the and shareholders.
the share scheme is also aligned with Groups relationship with any of its major manufacturers the Groups business plan.
or suppliers, or a failure to replace any of its major all permanent uK employees in uK retail, Brands and manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable Head office with at least one years service participated in terms, could have an adverse effect on the Groups the 2009 10 Bonus share scheme.
business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
the bonus is in two stages.
the first bonus is 25% of base ForeiGn excHanGe risK pay in shares of 1.00 per share.
the first bonus target was the Group operates internationally and is exposed to underlying eBitda of 155m in 2009-10 and was achieved foreign exchange risk arising from various currency in the Year.
the first bonus will vest in two years time and exposures, primarily with respect to the us dollar and is subject to continuous employment until then.
targets are stretch targets and are net of scheme costs.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial the second bonus is 75% of base pay in shares of 1.25 per transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are share.
the second stage of the bonus is conditional upon denominated in a currency that is not the entitys the first bonus target being met in 2009-10, which has functional currency, as exchange rates move.
already been achieved, and the second bonus targets are as explained previously, in the Groups case, the majority underlying eBitda of 195m in 2010-2011, and underlying of foreign exchange contracts relating to the sourcing eBitda net debt ratio of two or less at the end of 2010-11. of Group branded goods are denominated in us dollars, the shares vest, subject to continuous employment until and a strengthening of the dollar or a weakening of the then, two years after the second bonus targets are met.
pound sterling makes those goods more expensive.
proposals will be put forward to shareholders at the these expenses are hedged via forward foreign currency forthcoming aGM to extend and revise the Bonus share contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
the Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are revalued in accordance with currency movements.
this currency risk is not hedged.
shirebrook campus interest rate risK the Group continues to invest in infrastructure, and the the Group has net borrowings, which are principally at process of consolidating the Brands business, including floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or liBor.
acquired businesses, at shirebrook continues.
credit risK the Group, primarily through its Brands division, could have a credit risk if credit evaluations were not performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
the Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
FundinG and liquiditY risK Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders funds.
the object is to maintain sufficient funding and liquidity for the Groups requirements, but the availability of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity of funding in the current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Karrimor sponsored climber, Dave pickford sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 19 chief executives report continued risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business continued inVestMent risK the Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents the Group also holds shares in publicly listed companies and distributors are in material compliance with and fluctuations in their share prices will have a financial employment, environmental and other laws.
the violation, impact on the business results.
or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or reliance on non uK ManuFacturers distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline the Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing in public demand for the Groups products, or require countries as the majority of the Groups products are the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its sourced from outside the uK.
the Group is therefore supply chain and other business arrangements to ensure subject to the risks associated with international trade and compliance.
transport as well as those relating to exposure to different legal and other standards.
sales the Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal pensions peaks.
the incidence and participation in major sporting some subsidiaries in the Group make contributions to events will have a particular impact on the uK retail certain occupational defined benefits pension schemes.
prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or an increase in the schemes funding needs or changes temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons to obligations in respect of the schemes could have an could also have a material adverse effect on the Groups adverse impact on its business.
MarKet Forces consuMers the sports retail industry is highly competitive and the the Groups success and sales are dependent, in part, on Group currently competes at national and local levels with the strength and reputation of the brands it sells, and are a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes who may have subject to consumers perceptions of the Group and of its competitive advantages, and new competitors may enter products, which can fall out of favour.
such competition continues to place pressure concerning any of the Group brands or manufacturers on the Groups pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
or suppliers could lead to substantial erosion in the reputation of, or value associated with, the Group operational any significant disruption to the operations of the Group, enVironMental divisional head offices and the national distribution centre environmental disasters such as the recent volcanic ash at shirebrook, or interruption to the smooth running of cloud have highlighted how it is impossible to predict how the Groups fleet of vehicles, might significantly impact its an environmental occurrence will affect businesses.
ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its stores and maintain its supply chain.
the Group constantly updates systems to mitigate any delay or loss of goods in transit or the absence of any any long term interruption of the Groups it systems employee or large numbers of employees that they may or would have a significant impact on the Groups operation, may not be altered by acts of nature.
particularly in the retail division.
Business continuitY and acts oF terrorisM research and development the majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the uK and accordingly any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts the Groups success depends on the strength of the Group or government actions within the uK could result in a brands and, to a lesser extent, the licensed-in brands.
the significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would Groups efforts to continually develop or obtain brands in a in turn have an adverse affect on sales in stores.
timely manner or at all may be unsuccessful.
leGal the Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual property rights are central to the value of the Group brands.
third parties may try to challenge the ownership or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
the Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Nike shoe wall Sportsdirect.
com store, liverpool sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 21 chief executives report continued Management and mitigation of risk our strategy for growth the identification and management of risk is a continuous We are confident that the Group is well placed to deliver process, and the Groups system of internal controls and significant further growth in the future.
our focus remains the Groups business continuity programmes are key strongly on growing the core uK retail business by elements of that.
the Group maintains a system of controls continuing to drive efficiencies and deliver the unrivalled to manage the business and to protect its assets.
We value for money which our growing customer base has continue to invest in people, systems and in it to manage come to expect, while developing our offering in specialist the Groups operations and its finances effectively and sports categories.
We have established an excellent efficiently.
platform for growth which we will build on with our proposed eBitda related share bonus scheme.
the Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
credit evaluations outside the uK, our Brands business will focus on are performed on all customers requiring credit over licensing opportunities and will continue to restructure a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is the wholesale businesses.
We will continue to invest in our managed.
investment of cash surplus, borrowings and brands through advertising and promotion.
derivative investments are made through banks and We believe that acquisitions and strategic investments in companies which have credit ratings and investment other related businesses are beneficial to the Group and criteria approved by the Board.
we will continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise the Groups follows policies of forging long term while, for the time being, remaining mindful of the priority relationships with suppliers and of utilising two leading to reduce debt.
supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded goods is described on page 61 in the corporate responsibility report.
current trading FiFa World cup 2010 Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-uK the build up to the World cup started during spring 2010 suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are with the launch of the umbro away red shirt on 3 March.
managed and mitigated by the implementation of those trade in this period was as strong as expected culminating policies.
in the strongest trading day that the company has ever experienced on the day of the usa match.
We continue to close monitoring of the market, competitors, the economy, offer the most comprehensive range of england branded consumer confidence, participation in major sporting products including special edition shirts as well as name events, the weather, companies in which the Group and number personalisation.
also, this was the first FiFa holds strategic stakes, the behaviour of licensees, and World cup for the online store and both traffic and sales of possible infringement of intellectual property, and the have grown significantly.
development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances manages and does much to unfortunately, the period during the tournament was less mitigate the risks caused by these factors.
successful and sales correlated with the poor performance of the england team and the negative mood this created the Group maintains close contact with its bank and made amongst fans and consumers.
contact with other banks so as to begin to address the renewal of its facilities during 2010 11. the Group is cash our buying team had followed the seedings and we were generative and taken steps to reduce the level of debt confident of at least a last eight outcome for england, and has no reason to believe that refinancing will not be so exiting the tournament before that meant in effect that available on acceptable terms.
we were one game short although this was exacerbated by the disappointing performance in the four games.
the business continuity programme addresses the risk therefore, the negative impact of clearing the excess stock of disruption to the shirebrook campus.
accordingly the will offset some of the positive pre-tournament trade.
Board is confident that as far as is practical the risks and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and nevertheless, current uK retail trading remains well managed and that where required appropriate action is ahead of the same period last year.
section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW April 2010 lonsdale Brand Ambassador Carl Froch knocks down Mikkel Kessler of Denmark during their Super Six WBC Super Middleweight title fight sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 23 chief executives report continued outlook looking ahead, although we shall have to manage the impact of the announced increase in Vat in January 2011, we are confident that initiatives we are taking across all areas of the Group, including improved staff training and new, specialist in-store merchandising areas, put us in a strong position for the next phase of our growth.
We believe we are operationally stronger than ever.
accordingly, and assuming no significant deterioration in economic conditions, we are targeting FY11 Group underlying eBitda of around 195m.
Dave Forsey chief executive 22 July 2010 section 2 THE BUSINESS REVIEW puma shoe wall Sportsdirect.
com store, Shirebrook sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 25
