Scottish and Southern Energy 06 Annual Report 2010 Chairman and Chief Executive Questions and answers In SSE, the Chairman Lord Smith of Kelvin, below right is responsible for the operation of the Board, ensuring it works effectively.
The Chief Executive Ian Marchant, below left is responsible How would you sum up SSEs performance in 2009 10?
for the management of the business, Robert k It was business as usual, in that implementing the strategy and policies the Company delivered a 2.9% increase in agreed by the Board.
Here they answer adjusted profit before tax and the Board is recommending a 6.1% increase in the key questions about SSEs performance full-year dividend.
Since it was formed in 1998, SSE has achieved 11 successive years and plans for the future.
of increasing profits and dividend.
Thats quite a track record to build on in the future.
As well as turning in a sound financial performance, we continued to lead the sector in customer service in both energy supply and electricity distribution.
Our power stations and electricity networks performed well.
Most encouragingly of all, our safety performance was the best ever in SSEs history.
We want to make it better still, and safety will continue to be a big priority in 2010 11.
What was the rationale for the new dividend targets for 2010 11 onwards?
Ian k In the half-year results in November 2009, we said that our priority in setting new dividend targets would be to make sure that they are realistic and attainable, thereby giving shareholders the fullest possible confidence in their achievability.
Thats what our targets for dividend growth are designed to do.
We believe that a target of annual real dividend growth of at least 2% in each of the three years to March 2013 is the right way forward.
Youve always said dividend growth is supported by investment, and SSEs capital and investment expenditure is now well over 1bn a year.
Are you confident of the Companys ability to manage investment on this scale?
Robert k Confident, yes: complacent, no.
The SSE team has managed a wide range of capital investment projects over the last few years and delivered major new assets.
That said, some projects have taken longer than expected and there have been difficulties at others.
So we have no grounds for complacency.
The positive thing, however, is that capital investment is an area in which SSE has now built up significant experience and capability.
Thats what gives me confidence for the future.
07 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Ian k The assets we are developing are Robert k Yes, without a doubt.
SSEs team No two years are the same.
Do any intended to last for decades and any of Executive Directors are obviously wellparticular risks stand out for 2010 11?
short-term difficulties obviously have to paid but they are certainly not over-paid.
We do continually They have all been with the Company since Robert k Like any responsible Board, evaluate our investment programme and it was formed in 1998, and they are clearly we take risk management very seriously.
have no doubt that the value needed to delivering sustainable long-term value.
We have a pretty low appetite for risk and support our new dividend growth targets, Under their leadership, SSE has increased would never regard boring as a negative and sustained real growth over the long profits and dividends every year, while tag to be shaken off: quite the reverse.
improving service to customers and More specifically as a Board well again investing in the countrys energy future.
be keeping a close eye on the investment Did the Board review SSEs strategy in programme because of its scale and 2009 10 and, if so, what was the outcome?
Does SSE have strength in depth significance for the future.
Robert k We did have lengthy discussions Ian k 2010 11 will obviously be influenced on strategy, to make sure that sustained Ian k As Executive Directors, Colin Hood, by the uncertain economic outlook.
annual real growth in the dividend, which Gregor Alexander, Alistair Phillips-Davies However, SSE is in the business of is our first responsibility to shareholders, and I all depend on the excellent work providing something energy that is deliverable.
Those discussions done by the rest of the management people need, rather than want.
We also confirmed that our strategy operating team and everyone else throughout SSE.
set great store by having a balanced and investing in a range of market-based I might be the captain, but Im only one range of market-based and economicallyand  energy member of an experienced, committed regulated businesses.
So the economic businesses is right for the future.
and talented team and its a privilege to risk is manageable and doesnt threaten work with them.
This is an organisation our big priorities.
Are you confident about the Companys that is built to last, and I believe we have ability to finance investment on the scale the strength in depth to make sure it will.
As we look at things in 2010, much of the thats likely to be necessary over the focus for SSEs sector is already on 2020 next few years?
Employee issues, Executive and the stretching EU and UK targets for remuneration and energy bills would renewable energy and carbon emissions Ian k Yes.
SSE is a well-financed company often be tagged corporate responsibility reductions.
What part do you think SSE with a strong balance sheet, which is issues.
How does SSE handle the can play over the next decade in carefully maintained.
Weve also shown corporate responsibility agenda?
that we will move quickly to take the right financing options, including bonds, loans Robert k Ive been involved with many Robert k I take a very hard-headed view and, should new investment or acquisition companies over the years, and Ive also of this.
The worlds natural resources opportunities arise, equity.
done some work with the likes of Scottish are being used up at an unsustainable Business in the Community, and I have rate.
Thats why we have to make rapid Robert k Maintaining a strong balance to say I like the SSE approach.
There is no progress in reducing dependency on sheet is one of SSEs key financial corporate responsibility division.
Its not carbon, and a successful SSE, capable of principles the Board sticks to.
Its up to the Board and every financing and delivering major investment is making sure that investments are employee to deliver responsible business programmes over the next decade and well-founded.
They should be capable of practice every day.
This approach is beyond, should be in a prime position to earning returns above the cost of capital supported by a very strong set of core help in the transition towards a lowerand they should enhance earnings and values and I think it works well.
Ian k Weve taken the integrated approach Ian k Well help customers transform Are dividends being paid and investments a step further this year, and decided not to the way they consume energy.
Well also being financed by keeping household produce a separate Corporate Responsibility invest in low-carbon energy production energy prices higher than they need to be?
There is a lot of information on our and better ways of distributing energy.
Company website, but the basic principle We are very well-placed, having already Ian k No.
Unit prices started coming down is that this Report should set out SSEs made significant commitments to, and in March last year and we followed that approach to, and performance in, business investments in, electricity generation, up with another package of changes this and should in itself enable people to judge energy networks, supply and services.
Household bills are also coming whether SSE is a responsible company.
We have a low-carbon vision for SSE, down because all the energy efficiency and were working hard to realise it.
investment weve made in recent years is What are SSEs big priorities for 2010 11?
now really working, with gas consumption falling over the last few years.
That is the Ian k The same as every other year: sustainable way forward, in every sense.
safe working: excellent customer service: well-run power stations and energy Energy bills are controversial and so is networks: good progress on major capital Executive remuneration.
The Association investment projects: and cost efficiency.
of British Insurers has said that Executive Directors remuneration should be Robert k Id just like to add that the fact designed to contribute to the creation SSEs priorities are no different this year of sustainable long term value.
Do you from last is a strength.
Its when they start think that is the case at SSE?
changing that you have to worry!
