Scottish and Southern Energy Summary Report 2010 Chairman and Chief Executive Questions and answers In SSE, the Chairman Lord Smith of Kelvin is responsible for the operation of the Board, ensuring it works effectively.
The Chief Executive Ian Marchant is responsible for the management of the business, implementing the strategy and policies agreed by the Board.
Here they answer key questions about SSEs performance and plans for the future.
Thats what our targets for dividend is our first responsibility to shareholders, growth are designed to do.
We believe that is deliverable.
Those discussions a target of annual real dividend growth confirmed that our strategy operating of at least 2% in each of the three years and investing in a range of market-based to March 2013 is the right way forward.
and  energy businesses is right for the future.
Youve always said dividend growth is supported by investment, and SSEs Are you confident about the Companys capital and investment expenditure ability to finance investment on the How would you sum up SSEs is now well over 1bn a year.
Are you scale thats likely to be necessary performance in 2009 10?
confident of the Companys ability to over the next few years?
manage investment on this scale?
Robert k It was business as usual, Ian k Yes.
SSE is a well-financed in that the Company delivered a 2.9% Robert k Confident, yes: complacent, no.
company with a strong balance sheet, increase in adjusted profit before tax The SSE team has managed a wide range which is carefully maintained.
Weve also and the Board is recommending a 6.1% of capital investment projects over the shown that we will move quickly to take increase in the full-year dividend.
Since last few years and delivered major new the right financing options, including it was formed in 1998, SSE has achieved assets.
That said, some projects have bonds, loans and, should new investment 11 successive years of increasing profits taken longer than expected and there or acquisition opportunities arise, equity.
Thats quite a track record have been difficulties at others.
So we to build on in the future.
have no grounds for complacency.
The Robert k Maintaining a strong balance positive thing, however, is that capital sheet is one of SSEs key financial Ian k Solid.
As well as turning in a sound investment is an area in which SSE principles the Board sticks to.
Another financial performance, we continued has now built up significant experience is making sure that investments are to lead the sector in customer service and capability.
Thats what gives me well-founded.
They should be capable of in both energy supply and electricity confidence for the future.
earning returns above the cost of capital distribution.
Our power stations and and they should enhance earnings and electricity networks performed well.
Ian k The assets we are developing contribute to dividend growth.
Most encouragingly of all, our safety are intended to last for decades and any performance was the best ever in SSEs short-term difficulties obviously have to Are dividends being paid and history.
We want to make it better still, be seen in that context.
We do continually investments being financed by and safety will continue to be a big evaluate our investment programme and keeping household energy prices priority in 2010 11. have no doubt that the value needed to higher than they need to be?
support our new dividend growth targets, What was the rationale for the new and sustained real growth over the long Ian k No.
Unit prices started coming down dividend targets for 2010 11 onwards?
in March last year and we followed that up with another package of changes this Ian k In the half-year results in November Did the Board review SSEs strategy in March.
Household bills are also coming 2009, we said that our priority in setting 2009 10 and, if so, what was the outcome?
down because all the energy efficiency new dividend targets would be to make investment weve made in recent years is sure that they are realistic and attainable, Robert k We did have lengthy discussions now really working, with gas consumption thereby giving shareholders the fullest on strategy, to make sure that sustained falling over the last few years.
That is the possible confidence in their achievability.
annual real growth in the dividend, which sustainable way forward, in every sense.
Business in the Community, and I have be keeping a close eye on the investment Energy bills are controversial and so is to say I like the SSE approach.
There is no programme because of its scale and Executive remuneration.
The Association corporate responsibility division.
Its not significance for the future.
of British Insurers has said that Executive an add-on.
Its up to the Board and every Directors remuneration should be employee to deliver responsible business Ian k 2010 11 will obviously be influenced designed to contribute to the creation practice every day.
This approach is by the uncertain economic outlook.
of sustainable long term value.
Do you supported by a very strong set of core However, SSE is in the business of think that is the case at SSE?
values and I think it works well.
providing something energy that people need, rather than want.
We also Robert k Yes, without a doubt.
SSEs Ian k Weve taken the integrated set great store by having a balanced team of Executive Directors are obviously approach a step further this year, range of market-based and  but they are certainly not and decided not to produce a separate regulated businesses.
They have all been with the Corporate Responsibility Report.
There risk is manageable and doesnt threaten Company since it was formed in 1998, is a lot of information on our Company our big priorities.
and they are clearly delivering sustainable website, but the basic principle is that long-term value.
Under their leadership, this Report should set out SSEs As we look at things in 2010, much SSE has increased profits and dividends approach to, and performance in, of the focus for SSEs sector is already every year, while improving service to business and should in itself enable on 2020 and the stretching EU and UK customers and investing in the countrys people to judge whether SSE is a targets for renewable energy and carbon energy future.
What part do you think SSE can play over the next decade Does SSE have strength in depth among What are SSEs big priorities for in achieving those targets?
Robert k I take a very hard-headed view Ian k As Executive Directors, Colin Hood, Ian k The same as every other year: of this.
The worlds natural resources Gregor Alexander, Alistair Phillips-Davies safe working: excellent customer are being used up at an unsustainable and I all depend on the excellent work service: well-run power stations and rate.
Thats why we have to make rapid done by the rest of the management energy networks: good progress on progress in reducing dependency on team and everyone else throughout SSE.
major capital investment projects: carbon, and a successful SSE, capable I might be the captain, but Im only one and cost efficiency.
of financing and delivering major member of an experienced, committed investment programmes over the next and talented team and its a privilege to Robert k Id just like to add that the fact decade and beyond, should be in a prime work with them.
This is an organisation SSEs priorities are no different this year position to help in the transition towards that is built to last, and I believe we have from last is a strength.
Its when they a lower-carbon economy.
the strength in depth to make sure it will.
start changing that you have to worry!
Ian k Well help customers transform Employee issues, Executive No two years are the same.
Do any the way they consume energy.
Well also remuneration and energy bills would particular risks stand out for 2010 11?
invest in low-carbon energy production often be tagged corporate responsibility and better ways of distributing energy.
How does SSE handle the Robert k Like any responsible Board, We are very well-placed, having already corporate responsibility agenda?
we take risk management very seriously.
made significant commitments to, and We have a pretty low appetite for risk and investments in, electricity generation, Robert k Ive been involved with many would never regard boring as a negative energy networks, supply and services.
companies over the years, and Ive also tag to be shaken off: quite the reverse.
We have a low-carbon vision for SSE, done some work with the likes of Scottish More specifically as a Board well again and were working hard to realise it.
Unless otherwise stated, this Summary Report describes adjusted operating profit before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation and interest on profits from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
In addition, it describes adjusted profit before tax before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation on profits from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
It also describes adjusted earnings and earnings per share before exceptional items, the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and deferred tax.
Financial Calendar 2010 Annual General Meeting 22 July 2010 You can view SSEs Ex dividend date 28 July 2010 Annual Report 2010 Record date 30 July 2010 Final dividend payable 24 September 2010 online at: Half-year results announcement Provisionally 10 November 2010 www.
