There have been numerous examples of outstanding tArgeteArly?
successes this year from all corners of our business.
Russia As a business we have set increasingly challenging targets, and has grabbed the headlines, but in many ways our strong we continue to remain on track to achieve 50 per cent growth organic growth, driven by solid product innovations, has been in EPS over three years.
We expect to make further significant the most pleasing thing for SSL.
progress in the current year and to achieve the target next year once we have the full benefit of our Russian acquisition.
Of course, whilst we are very pleased to be hitting  profit targets, we are equally pleased that our cash flow is progressed?
strong, which allows us both to invest in the business and We continue to be very pleased with this acquisition which to increase returns to our shareholders.
It is a complex business, employing more than 3,000 people, and we are building strong relationships  throughout the organisation.
The Russian business has already had a significant impact on our bottom line and we expect this iMpActedssl?
to continue as we join the two businesses together to provide Yes, we have seen some impact from decreased consumer a platform for growth in the future.
spending, particularly in some of our larger markets including the UK and Italy.
We have also seen customer inventory reductions in some of our markets.
We are fortunate, however,  that our categories are more resilient than many other  consumer products.
We have also been working closely with yourexpectAtions?
our customers to deliver outstanding in-store execution, Yes.
Whenever we open a new facility, let alone one the size education and promotions.
Our distribution channels have of Qingdao, we expect three years before we achieve full been enhanced with the expansion of our consumer websites production and high yields.
Qingdao is ahead of this timetable, in many markets.
with global shipments starting as anticipated, and further capacity increases planned for next year.
The development of our Chinese factory adds to our robust supply chain platform with key operations also in India, the UK and Thailand which is strengthened by sharing processes and talent across sites, and by close relationships with commercial offices around the world.
e f mING He f U ex eCt tI NS 08 09 ChiEf ExECutivEs REviEW CONTINUED  1. hardskinrange Many consumers report hard skin and calluses.
The Scholl Hard Skin range includes a Softening Cream, Softening Pen and Instant Hard Skin Remover.
2. feelingrange These new condoms provide the maximum in sensation while still offering the protection and security consumers rightfully 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 expect from Durex.
We firmly believe that continuing organic growth is an essential part of our development.
That said, our balance sheet is strong and we have a proven management team which gives us the freedom to consider opportunities for well-chosen acquisitions to increase our global geographic presence and distribution capacity.
SSL is a fast-evolving business, with sales that have all but doubled in the past five years and a broad and growing geographic footprint.
It is essential that our management structures reflect the changing nature of the Group and provide foundations for further growth in future.
For example, OpERAting MARgin we have integrated those teams that bring new products to market under the banner of Product Delivery.
This combines functions including Regulatory and Innovation and has improved our ability to deliver products that are based on consumer insight to the marketplace in an efficient and controlled manner.
7% 2010 And bEYOnd SALES Our immediate priorities are continuing 09 10 802.5m the successful integration of our Russian 08 09 675.3m business, and ensuring a strong pipeline 07 08 635.4m of new products to support our organic At constant exchange rates growth.
Certainly, the global financial outlook is more promising for the next 12 months, OPERATING PROFIT with our most established marketplaces, the UK and Italy, forecast to return to 09 10 126.0m growth.
We are well placed to capitalise on 08 09 97.0m the resulting improvement in consumer confidence, with quality products that 07 08 90.4m address everyday needs.
At constant exchange rates Our recently established Product Delivery team is geared up as a real engine room within the business.
It is responsible for ensuring we have a consistent flow of new and innovative products reaching the marketplace.
We have invested significantly in recruiting key talent to this team and I am enthusiastic about how they will ensure we remain at the forefront of innovation within our categories.
Their focus is on the consumer, supported by  extensive research and testing in each ?
stage of the process from conceptual The economy I do not think we can take global recovery in innovation to regulation.
The team has all markets for granted.
In many consumer markets we would also forged strong relationships with expect consumer growth to be slower than historical trends.
partners from the scientific and academic This will continue to place pressure on our innovation pipeline worlds, using external knowledge and to ensure we bring relevant and competitive products to meet expertise to maximise our growth.
Our balance sheet is strong, and we The integration of our Russian business is an ongoing will look for appropriate acquisition challenge and we need to make sure we get the most from it, opportunities that could exploit our while smoothly integrating its business into SSL to provide a business fundamentals.
continuing platform for growth in the future.
After significant investment in our As with any business, our success is ultimately entirely production facilities in the UK, Thailand dependent upon our people.
Nurturing SSLs unique culture and China in recent years, we will next is vital to our success and will continue to be a focus for the focus on India.
Our partnership with the management team.
TTK Group remains strong and we have plans for investing in and improving the production facilities at our sites in Southern India.
One of our competitive advantages is our employee culture, and together with the Board and Executive Committee, I will be looking to further capitalise on the spirit of entrepreneurship and passion felt among SSL employees globally by relaunching our vision, values and operating principles across our worldwide operations in the coming year.
We continue to invest in developing our employees, in selecting the best new talent and in training and challenging the next generation of leaders.
