Chief Executives review The Group has met the challenges of a difficult trading year and is in a We have been pleased with the performance of our UK Rail division, strong position to achieve our strategic objective of further organic particularly in the second half of the year.
There is growing evidence of growth in our bus and rail businesses.
returning passenger volumes and our targeted cost reduction plan has been implemented successfully while delivering high levels of operational We are seeing signs of economic recovery in both the UK and North performance and customer satisfaction.
We are delivering strongly on America and, while the sustainability and pace of economic recovery our franchise commitments to Government, while investing in further remains unclear, the outlook for the Group is positive.
improvements to stations and train services.
We are continuing to lead the sector in delivering an unrivalled package At Virgin Rail Group VRG, extra train services and faster schedules on of high quality services, strong operational performance, excellent value the West Coast franchise are making rail even more attractive and travel, good customer service, and investment in our products.
helping win market share from the airlines.
VRG has achieved a stepThe efficiency measures we put in place early in the global economic change in operational performance and customer satisfaction, and is slowdown have ensured we have a low-cost business model that will starting to build on the focus of Network Rail on improving infrastructure allow the Group to move quickly to capitalise on the opportunities ahead.
reliability on what is one of the UKs crucial rail arteries.
Value pricing for our customers is at the heart of how we differentiate The Group is committed to working with Network Rail to improve ourselves from our competitors.
We are officially Britains low fares performance on the rail network for our customers and we have a close major bus operator and offer budget products in each of our bus and rail working relationship with the senior management team.
support the view of the Office of Rail Regulation that Network Rail needs to be more responsive to its customers, particularly around timetable We believe the environment and outlook for public transport is positive.
development and making the best use of network capacity.
Virgin Rail Our smarter travel services can play a significant role in helping people Group, in particular, has suffered from poor performance by Network Rail lead greener lifestyles and delivering a low carbon economy.
We look on the West Coast main line, and improved infrastructure availability is forward to working with the new UK Government to maximise the huge crucial in delivering a more reliable railway to passengers.
However, we believe improvements must be made to the existing rail The Group has launched an ambitious new sustainability strategy with a franchising model.
There is an opportunity to give greater freedom to five-year plan to reduce further the carbon emissions from our transport operators to invest in improving services for passengers, reduce the operations.
It is supported by an 11m investment programme and a burden on taxpayers, cut unnecessary micro-management by range of stretching targets for our bus and rail businesses.
As well as government and better protect services in challenging economic times.
making our business more efficient, we believe this will support our We believe that the emphasis should be on targeting the achievement of strategy of investing for long-term growth.
high levels of customer satisfaction, with each train operating company We are investing further in new technology solutions to make it easier given the latitude to determine the best way of achieving that objective.
for customers to access our services, including smartcards, online All of this can be achieved whilst ensuring a sensible risk transfer to the marketing and e-commerce channels.
private sector which allows for shareholder returns commensurate with performance and capital put at risk.
The current revenue share and Our UK Bus division has proved robust.
We have maintained the reach of revenue support arrangements do not work either for operators or the our bus networks during the recession and continued with our fleet taxpayer and the model needs to better reflect the risks and investment programme to offer a high quality service to our customers responsibilities that the different parties have control over and are best and a real alternative to the car.
Outside London, the local bus market in the UK is vibrant and highly As a Group, we will continue to consider all opportunities in the transport competitive and has seen substantial investment in recent years.
The sector to create additional shareholder value.
We are in a strong financial Competition Commission investigation into the market has been an position and believe we are well positioned to take advantage of any unnecessary and expensive distraction for our management teams.
However we are confident that common sense will prevail, never forgetting that the motor car is the ultimate competitor and that our Last year, I predicted 2009-10 would be a difficult year, but that business strategy in recent years has been all about converting car users Stagecoach Group was better placed than most to come through the to bus users.
We look forward to an early resolution to the investigation global recession.
We have done so impressively and we can look forward that will highlight all of the positive existing qualities of the market and with confidence with our strong portfolio of flexible bus and rail this will then allow us to focus once again on maximising the benefits for businesses.
I would like to thank our people right across the Group for our customers.
their key role in making that happen and delivering for our customers and our shareholders.
In North America, the weak economy has continued to affect demand for scheduled and leisure bus and coach services.
However, we have taken sensible steps to match supply to lower demand.
We have expanded further our budget coach service, megabus.
com, which has benefited from consumer demand for low cost products during the downturn.
Brian Souter Chief Executive 23 June 2010 page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc
