Chief Executive Officers Statement Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer CEO, Andrew Tinkler explains how an exciting, ambitious vision for the Group: to become the UKs leading name in multimodal transport and logistics: is rapidly coming to fruition, despite the background of a tough economic climate.
Vision Strategy Our vision is clear: to be the UKs leading provider of multimodal Our strategy is underpinned by our brand, people and systems: transport and logistics solutions.
To do so, we need to expand all Forming new partnerships with customers to further drive forms of transport, especially rail, sea and air.
tures in the best places to service the maximum number of To seize the opportunities, operationally, as the economy comes customers.
We have made a good start, and are outperforming the out of recession, building on our key competitive advantages, market, but we still have some way to go.
such as load utilisation and pooling our customers.
Our divisional operations are supported by a profitable new area To market and develop our assets to our customers and then of our business: logistics asset development, which continues to sell these assets where appropriate, at a profit to be reinvested grow and is exemplified by our ongoing development at our in the business.
We set up a desirable infrastructure, sold part of the assets at a capital gain, generating a return on investTo develop systems and technologies that protect the business ment for our shareholders.
from operational and financial risk.
In addition, we have secured a three-year road transport revenue To grow organically with both existing and new customers.
stream with Tesco, a rail freight revenue stream for inbound goods To take waste out of the system: waste adds to cost and and a storage and handling revenue stream for the inland port damages the environment.
This demonstrates how operational services and development of our logistics assets are linked.
To increase business in the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe.
Stobart Group is a FTSE 250 company comprising four main DiviTo leverage the high value in our brand.
sions: Road, Rail, Ports and Air.
While Eddie Stobart remains the core of our business responsible for about 85 percent of turnover I am confident in the growth potential of our other Divisions.
Andrew Tinkler Chief Executive Officer 11 Stobart Group Limited Introduction Pictured: Andrew Tinkler, right, discusses the new Rail Station and Control Tower being constructed at London Southend Airport with Stobart Air MD, Alastair Welch, far left, and Steven Harker, Stobart Rails Site Engineer, centre.
The aim is certainly to grow the Rail, Port and Air Divisions.
There Answering the key questions are big environmental benefits.
But you will always need a truck at You are now offering two service streams across the Divisions: the end of every journey, for that final delivery.
You have to underThe operational side and the asset development, as epitomised stand what type of truck to use and how to use it.
A radius of up to by your recent sale of part of the giant Widnes site.
This marked about 100-150 miles is the ideal journey for a truck, but no more.
Can you explain in more detail?
Wed like to replace truck with train on some of those longer journeys.
Across all of our Divisions we have an operating business that is If we can do multi-drops on the rail network loading and unloading performing well and another asset development business that is at major stopover points by having our assets on the rail network at also giving a good return.
the right place then that helps.
Typically with rail now, you have one big loading and one big unloading.
Were trying to change that.
Let me explain the latter in more detail: A lot of underutilised existing assets in key locations will put value into the respective With sea, the big container ships have one drop-off point, such as Divisions in the coming years.
Equally, we will buy land in the right Rotterdam, Southampton or Felixstowe.
We want to use feeder locations, preferably next to road, rail, sea and air facilities.
ships from those vast ports.
We need volume for that and Stobart Group have enough customers to potentially make that work.
We develop this land and we sell it to our customers as a business Thats where inland ports can also work, theyre ideal for smaller concept because its in the right location.
We develop it for them, feeder vessels and theyre typically nearer other transport hubs.
then we generate revenue streams for the operational side of the business, be it road, rail, warehousing etc, and ultimately we sell on How would you sum up 2009?
We have taken big strides in achieving our goal of being true multiThe sale of the first phase at our Widnes inland port, part of the modal providers, with substantial progress made in rail, air and Merseyside Multimodal Gateway, is a good example of how this ports.
But its been a difficult year because, with the recession, the works.
This is not speculative asset development, rather it is low flow of the work has been up-and-down.
There has clearly been risk and very well integrated with the operational side.
The asset pressure on rates, as customers strive for better deals.
Yet weve development helps the operational side, and vice versa.
We havent gained materially on overall turnover but we How multimodal are you really?
have been able to consolidate and reduce our own waste.
If a customer wants road, rail, sea or air transport, we can deliver.
The tough weather conditions this past winter also proved a chalWe have the infrastructure.
If we dont have the transport for a parlenge but, by working in partnership with our customers, and thanks ticular journey, we can partner with someone to do it.
We are to the commitment of our drivers, we have continued to deliver a developing our own assets, and infrastructures, to be more costcomprehensive service.
We estimate the extreme conditions cost effective and more multimodal.
the business in excess of 0.5m, however the longer-term benefits Report and Accounts 2010 12 Chief Executive Officers Statement Continued Key Performance Indicators Financial 2010 2009 % Change Business Revenue From continuing operations 447.7m 431.1m 3.9% a EAFFC Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs 39.1m 27.5m 42.5% b Earnings Per Ordinary Share Normalised from continuing operations 11.0p 7.7p 43.1% Environmental Fleet Utilisation Reflecting low efficiency of integrated businesses 83.7% 84.1% -0.48% Euro 4 5 Compliance Total fleet 88% 81% 8.6% People Accident Incident Rate RIDDOR New measure more appropriate to Group 0.53 0.43 23.3% a Comprising underlying operating profit of 35.0m 2009: 31.4m and net disposal profit on Widnes assets of 8.2m less fleet financing costs of 3.4m 2009: 3.2m and share based payments of 0.7m 2009: 0.7m.
b EPS is based on a PBT of 36.8m with a normalised tax charge of 28%.
EPS excluding the net disposal profit on Widnes assets is 8.6p.
should far outweigh this cost, as the conditions once again highpays for what they need.
If they require 50 trucks one day and 100 lighted the inflexible nature of the Open Book model, under which the next, Stobart Group can do that.
We also pool our customers this cost would have been borne by the customer.
Our core busineeds, improving efficiency for us and for our customers.
ness model and customer focus is comparatively recession Finally, the launch of the Spanish fresh train service, from Valenresistant, and during this challenging period we have managed to cia to Barking in London, was also special.
Its the longest train outperform the industry.
journey in Europe by a single operator, is faster and much more A good strong business model helps in a recession and I believe environmentally friendly than similar journeys by road, and proves we have it.
Compared with most rivals, we are comparatively recesthe potential of rail for longer journeys.
Because of our shared trucks, and our ability to treat Youre enjoying continued success at winning big name customers, all customers as one, we can maximise efficiency and our utilisaadding Unilever to the portfolio.
How have you achieved this?
Most of our deliveries are in the food and drink sector, and that is also more recession proof than most other forms of I think we have been innovative in bringing all our customers transport delivery.
Our new contract with Unilever is also good news.
together into a shared-user transport system to reduce empty A lot of their products sell irrespective of recession, and season.
One customer controlling their own fleet hasnt got our After all you still need bathroom cleaner or washing powder no matnational coverage or our efficiencies.
No-one has quite the same ter what the state of the economy, or whether its summer or winter.
partnerships or shared-users as we do.
By pooling customers, we can view them as one large customer.
What have been the highlights?
Is that why youve also had success with small customers?
There have been many highlights.
Firstly, our development and subsequent asset disposal of part of our Widnes inland port.
This has Yes, our policy of pooling customers means that no job is too given a good return on investment around 20% initially and that small.
If you can fill one empty leg, you are saving money.
An will be reinvested elsewhere in the business, including our expanempty truck or an empty leg that could be used by another cussion plans for London Southend Airport.
The Widnes phase one site tomer is an unnecessary waste of money.
development and subsequent sale includes the new Northern Distribution Centre for Tescos fresh operations, which was developed What challenges face the transport and logistics industry?
We were recently confirmed as transport conThe price of fuel is a huge issue for consumers as we are forced to tractor from this distribution centre, which is excellent news.
pass on the cost to our customers.
It adds to the costs of our cusSecondly, the planning approval for the runway extension at London tomers goods and to consumers cost.
Every train service we Southend Airport.
This is a key part of our plans, which include a establish reduces our fuel usage significantly.
new railway station, terminal and control tower.
Work starts soon Customers, of course, generally dont care how their goods get and will be finished a year in advance of the London 2012 Olympics.
there, just as long as they get there.
Being able to offer all four London Southend is the nearest operational airport to the Olympic modes of transport increases choice and efficiency.
site, and will have an excellent rail link, so it is superbly located.
As fuel costs rise, reducing waste becomes an even greater issue Next, we are delighted to have won the transport contract with for the industry.
The other big issue is traffic another blue chip company, Unilever.
This is a further endorsement and road congestion.
We need to do more to utilise our railroads of our pay as you go cost model in which the customer only and our waterways.
I think were taking the lead here.
13 Stobart Group Limited Introduction Finally, one of our specific challenges, as we continue to acquire this year, our UK capacity utilisation was 83.7 percent.
It was reaand take on more businesses, is integrating the Stobart culture.
We sonably flat because of integrating new business that wasnt up to need these businesses we acquire to understand our core values our efficiency standard, and the recession.
I dont believe you can our attention to detail, our customer service, our drivers tidy get much better than 90 percent because you will always have appearance, our environmental commitments, our job satisfaction some empty miles.
and the extraordinary following we have from the Members Club.
You are still acquiring, still expanding.
How will you expand How have you dealt with the economic uncertainty?
We have to continually check our costs.
People are buying more We certainly see growth in road, rail, air and sea transport, mostly sporadically now, they are buying more at the last minute.
This at the expense of less efficient competitors.
We also see growth causes peaks and troughs in demand, which can make life difficult and great investment potential in our asset development.
The IT infrastructure that Stobart has developed over the years Southend Airport has been a highlight this year.
Take us through helps keep utilisation rates on an even keel, minimising the swings the rationale of your involvement.
Its part of our multimodal strategy.
Look at air: 82 percent of all air Business conditions are still quite flat.
We are predicting a boost freight coming into London comes on passenger planes.
So whats this summer because of the football World Cup, especially in drink the point of buying transport planes when the passenger airlines sales.
A hot summer would help too: when the sun shines it boosts are already struggling?
If Stobart Group can get an operator to use the economy.
Stobart Group have out-performed the market: keepour airport and help him fill his plane with freight, weve won ing level operationally and hitting our targets.
Turnover is reasonably twofold... Weve got freight business and passenger business.
flat but our margins have improved.
We have also developed assets By developing an airport that has a fast rail service for both passento give a return to shareholders that showed the actual assets were gers and freight, Stobart Group has a big advantage over all those undervalued.
other London airports that are further from town.
We can also proWe have outperformed the market partly because 85 percent of vide air transport from mainland Europe that is 20 minutes faster our customers are in food and drink or recession-resistant retail than any other London airport, or 40 minutes faster on a round trip.
For instance, we werent reliant on the motor industry, Thats a massive time and fuel saving.
which has been badly hit, but people still have to eat and drink.
If you take Southampton Airport as a model, it has two million pasThey may buy cheaper brands of orange juice and cheaper sengers now and the same length of runway and a rail station chocolate biscuits, but they still need to be transported.
We have a station right next to the air terminal itself and Your capacity utilisation is higher than the industry standard.
much quicker links to London, and I believe that we can be a How have you achieved this?
We certainly predict two million passengers by 2020 for London Southend and if the right airline operators By sharing customers and putting IT systems in place that allow us come in, we could have a million passengers by 2012.
Thanks to to monitor it all live, and anticipate it before it even happens.
During the Olympics, there may be even more.
Report and Accounts 2010 14 Chief Executive Officers Statement Continued We have taken a controlling interest in the newly-formed Stobart Biomass Products Limited, together with market-leader A. W. Jenkinson.
The new company sources and distributes biomass fuel for renewable energy production in the UK, it is a market that could increase tenfold in the next three years.
You have also just invested in the biomass market, through a packaging, in the trucks.
Using it also reduces empty running.
It new venture with a biomass supplier.
gives customers another level of service.
Plus there is the environmental benefit.
We have taken a controlling interest in the newly formed Stobart Biomass Products, together with market leader A. W. Jenkinson.
The new The business is coming up to 40 years old.
Does the Stobart of company sources and distributes biomass fuel to the UK renewable today have anything in common with the Stobart of the 1970s?
At the same time we have secured a ten year major Its a similar company the cleanliness youll never see a grubby transport contract with A. W. Jenkinsons existing business.
Stobart vehicle on the road, the professionalism, the customer We anticipate that the biomass business market could increase service.
It has the same values, the same culture.
People who have tenfold in the next three years, not least because EU law mandates been here for years would still recognise Stobart.
Obviously there that 15 percent of electricity must come from renewable resources, are differences were a listed company, for example but we still such as biomass, by 2020, and the UK has set an even higher tarhave those family values.
We need to continue to increase our investment in the brand, to put Our expertise in transport logistics clearly helps.
Transport and logisthe Stobart name even more on the map.
We have clearly been tics is a major cost and headache for biomass suppliers and successful here: Stobart is already listed as a UK Superbrand, Stobarts expertise will bring improved efficiencies to the whole bio- 32nd in a list of 500 business brands for 2010.
We can continue to mass logistics and supply chain.
build the brand by emphasising our core characteristics and, of course, supporting the marvellous Stobart Members Club.
One further point: to build a biomass generator you need the raw material to feed it.
We have some of the raw material, such as Green Electricity Transport by Eddie Stobart Biowaste is chipped to form Biofuel Surplus low pressure Steam often used for Biomass Fuel Domestic or Industrial Heating Boiler generates steam Steam turbine The Biomass Process generates electricity 15 Stobart Group Limited Introduction Report and Accounts 2010 16
