18 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Chief Executives report In 2010 Synergy con rmed its position as one of the worlds leading providers of services in sterilisation, decontamination and infection control services.
We have continued to expand our reach globally supplying outsourced support services to the healthcare market.
The business model has proved resilient to challenging economic conditions.
The Group has increased revenues by 4.5% from the prior year with underlying revenues up 7.5%.
We are also pleased to announce that our gross margins have been fully restored to 2008 levels at 36.2% resulting in adjusted operating margins up by 1.0%.
Synergy Health plc 19 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 We are well positioned to take advantage of the increased certainty in international markets.
The business is set for continued growth This involves processing over five million instruments each year, in Our success this year in increasing adjusted basic earnings per share addition to linen management.
Under the contract, we service four by 23.3% is due to a number of factors.
Primarily it is because our core acute hospitals in north London, as well as other NHS and private strategy has remained constant, and we are expanding our operations sector clients.
and sales in international markets.
The main focus of the UK linen business was to correct the margin We expect continuing earnings growth, as Synergy is well positioned setback, which negatively impacted the business in 2008 09, mainly to take advantage of the increased stability in international markets.
due to energy and transport costs rising.
I am pleased to report that this More importantly from our perspective, we are well positioned to has now been corrected and the business last year restored margins support our customers through increased regulatory challenges at a to the levels prior to the cost increases.
Revenue growth was modest time when there is further pressure on funding.
Synergy has strong re ecting the strategy to tighten controls and cut costs, leading methodologies and processes, as well as financial strength supported to the closure of an out-dated facility in the second half of last year.
by a marked reduction in debt.
The business is now in a good position to resume growing.
Because of our renewed focus on growth, we have realigned our Our UK sterilisation services business that caters for the medical devices leadership, by appointing three regional CEOs: CEO United Kingdom manufacturers has been operating steadily.
Revenues in the region grew and Ireland: CEO Europe and the Middle East: and CEO Asia and Africa.
6% over the period, which we believe was a commendable outcome.
In Ireland we opened the new electron beam facility at Tullamore, which We have also appointed a commercial director to lead a dedicated has started well, although as anticipated, there have been start-up costs commercial team with the remit to pursue growth opportunities, associated with the new facility.
particularly within the decontamination and sterilisation sectors.
We continue to increase our focus on developing a complete infection UK and Ireland control range that reduces hospital infection rates using Synergys The UK and Ireland region is our most developed market for most of specialised portfolio of products whilst at the same time exiting a small our services.
The margin pressure experienced in 2008 was primarily in number of non-core businesses within UK healthcare solutions, which the UK and it is here that we have focused heavily on cost management will help to increase pro tability and margins further in the coming years.
and been more highly selective about new contracts.
As a result underlying revenue growth excluding non-core businesses was lower Europe and the Middle East at 3.1%.
However, due to the growing need for hospitals to outsource Europe and the Middle East has further growth potential for Synergy, their decontamination requirements this service grew 17% during the particularly in sterilisation services, supported by improving capacity period re ecting further contract wins.
There is still considerable room utilisation at the Venlo facility in the Netherlands, and also in infection for further growth in the decontamination market.
Venlo is our first ethylene oxide sterilisation facility in Europe.
75% of UK hospitals provide their own in-house decontamination We are now able to offer customers this technology, as well as services.
There is increasing pressure on hospitals worldwide to cut gamma sterilisation for which we are already well known in the region.
costs, yet meet tougher regulatory requirements, which places We anticipate a need to add an additional line to extend capacity by Synergy in a good position as a cost-effective solution for hospitals.
the end of this year and we are also expecting to add further gamma capacity in France.
Most of our other sterilisation facilities are running The majority of UK contract wins are with the NHS.
We have been ef ciently close to capacity.
active in supporting the NHS in its drive for ef ciency and the NHS has chosen us because of our track record in enabling hospitals to Our edgling decontamination business in Europe is making steady meet service standards and lower costs.
It is currently operating in the Netherlands and Belgium close to 30% of the Groups operating pro t. with two sites under our management at very large acute hospitals.
An example is the Barking, Havering and Redbridge University Outsourcing of services to hospitals has been dif cult in Europe Hospital NHS Trust contract that commenced in May 2009. as value added tax VAT differences impinge upon the price competitiveness of outsourced services.
20 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 In Europe, unlike in the UK, VAT that is paid by hospitals on our There have been costs associated with starting our new facility at services cannot be claimed back, creating a cost disadvantage.
Suzhou, which is re ected in the lower operating margin for the We now have a solution to overcome this and we will be more region.
Another factor has been weaker sales due to dif cult aggressively looking to expand our services in this area as a result.
conditions in the North American market for medical device manufacturers, which typically assemble and sterilise their devices The Dutch healthcare linen business remains the leading player in in China.
However, as a result, these manufacturers are under a mature market.
Re ecting this, the business is growing at a modest increasing pressure to improve ef ciency, which places Synergy rate and its margins are stable, but it remains a strong generator of in a strong position to keep winning business.
Elsewhere, we are selling healthcare solutions systems into a range of Barriers to entry healthcare providers across Europe and the Middle East.
This revenue Although more stability is returning to international markets, stream has grown signi cantly in the past year after investments in conditions remain challenging for both the private and the public sales and marketing in the region.
Customers, including hospitals and medical technology specialists, are faced with signi cant spending constraints.
Asia and Africa Despite this, regulatory standards such as minimum hygiene As a whole, Asia and Africa grew revenues by 20.1%.
The onus is upon hospitals to meet the operates services across three countries in Asia Thailand, Malaysia regulatory standards in the most cost-ef cient manner possible and now China.
The South African operation is managed by the same and outsourcing is a highly attractive and logical solution.
regional CEO, who will be based in a new of ce in Hong Kong.
Outsourcing companies have the scale and associated ef ciencies We continue to make signi cant progress in Asia now that operations to provide services at a lower cost.
have been established in Suzhou, China.
We provide decontamination Our businesses have signi cant barriers to entry, which make it services for four acute hospitals in Suzhou, as well as a number very dif cult for customers or potential competitors to achieve the of smaller customers.
This is the first service of its kind in China low costs and ef ciencies that we have in our areas of expertise: and the response from both the national government and the local decontamination, sterilisation and infection control services.
Firstly, there is the financial barrier.
We have invested more than As part of the Suzhou facility, we provide sterilisation services using 300 million in building and developing decontamination and ethylene oxide technology.
We are currently working with a number sterilisation plants.
This includes the network of backup facilities of medical device manufacturers and we should be generating that is essential in the mission critical environment in which revenues from this service by the second half of next year.
This investment is extremely expensive and time In Thailand and Malaysia we provide outsourcing of sterilisation consuming to replicate.
for medical device manufacturers, whereas in China we provide decontamination services for hospitals, in addition to the sterilisation service for manufacturers.
We have delivered our short-term goals.
1 Talent management 2 Increasing capacity utilisation 3 Improving cash ow 4 Increased cross-selling management and reducing debt Senior Leadership Community Improved sales performance Net debt reduced by almost A number of initiatives were established to engage senior at recently established 37 million, down 22%, driven started in the year, including employees with the Groups European sterilisation facilities by internal cash generation implementing customer strategy and harness talent in the Netherlands and Ireland, from working capital and tightly relationship management across the Group to deliver with the Dutch facility expected controlled capital expenditure systems across the Group to key initiatives to be fully utilised by the end allow information to be shared, Net investment in working of next year and there have already been Annual organisational capability capital has reduced considerably some successes including review implemented, resulting The decontamination and from a total investment of increased sales to certain in over 50% of management sterilisation super centre in 3.9 million to a net credit UK hospitals opportunities arising being Suzhou, China is now servicing position of 2.5 million lled by internal candidates four hospitals and a number The new management structure, of other related medical which will ensure common Continued investment in organisations, with a pipeline leadership across each region, management training and of further customers expected will bring focus to selling more development programmes to be generating revenues by services to existing customers through Chartered the second half of this year Management Institute and Warwick Business School Synergy Health plc 21 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Secondly, we provide associated technical expertise.
In sterilisation, A long-term focus is also in shareholders interests.
It will enable us for example, there is a requirement to obtain licences to handle the to continue our exceptional record of earnings growth and to increase radioactive cobalt used in gamma technology sterilisation.
In addition the dividends we pay to investors.
there is the expertise associated with building and operating Aside from high pro le investments in China, we have invested in sterilisation plants, which is hard to replicate.
In decontamination, the lower-pro le measures such as a graduate management training key issues are the knowledge, data and expertise required to manage programme, additional expertise in Human Resources to look speci cally a very complex logistical environment, and be able to take an at Talent Management, and a leadership community forum.
The latter in-house department and transform the quality standards to near involves 60 people who meet quarterly, including once a year at a two perfection very quickly.
Our decontamination facilities must comply day event, to review strategy and key initiatives across the businesses.
with stringent regulatory standards which can only be achieved These people are chosen from the Groups 4,000 strong workforce using complex systems and quality procedures which Synergy has and represent the present and future leaders of Synergy.
developed during the past 15 years.
Thirdly, almost 50% of the Groups revenues are derived from long Outlook duration contracts between three and 40 years this provides In an environment where both the private and public sectors are under a signi cant barrier to entry for competitors in decontamination.
pressure to make cost savings, but where regulators are demanding In sterilisation, US Food and Drug Administration approval is required more from the health sector globally in terms of hygiene, we are well for entrance into this eld which provides a signi cant further positioned as an experienced outsource provider.
We now have positions in key markets and have executives in place The expertise that we have in sterilisation of medical devices and the responsible for growth.
In the short term, we are looking for double-digit decontamination of reusable surgical instruments overlaps, providing EPS growth.
We believe that Europe and the Middle East will continue the Group with a unique level of expertise and problem solving ability to deliver strong revenue and earnings growth due to our increased in those elds.
Synergy is a recognised expert in applied sterilisation sterilisation capacity and range of technologies.
We also expect further technology.
We also work for the biggest global brands in our eld, growth in decontamination, particularly in the UK, as hospitals look to including Johnson and Johnson, which gives us a level of credibility outsource providers to meet regulatory requirements at minimal expense.
that cannot easily be replicated.
Longer term, we also see strong earnings growth from our presence in Asia, and in particular in China.
Both sterilisation and decontamination Synergy is investing in the long term services are in high demand in this region.
The investment in our people and processes must re ect the long-term nature of our contracts.
We also look towards new markets in order to match the movements of the global healthcare industry, which is increasingly focused on emerging markets such as China.
Dr Richard M Steeves Chief Executive 5 Reinforcing cost leadership 6 Business focus 7 Developing signi cant 8 Continuing expansion into presence in Asia health-related markets We have continued to explore The cost reduction initiatives There has been a deliberate Asia continues to be our fastest new markets for our services identi ed last year have been reduction in revenues from growing region and, to support and expertise fully executed during the year, non-core businesses as these this, we have increased the and been reinforced by further are wound down in an orderly size and expertise of our We are encouraged by the measures such as the partial manner, mainly within UK team in decontamination strong growth in exports of closure of a UK sterilisation healthcare solutions and sterilisation services our infection control solutions facility, with the work being into the Middle East and Asia This remains a key priority over Having created a working model reallocated to other more and the interest globally in the forthcoming year for decontamination services, ef cient facilities our decontamination service, we have plans to build a network including North America The initiatives above have of facilities in China similar to and Australia contributed to the 1% increase that in the UK in net operating margin
