Yule Catto & Co plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief Executives report The Group delivered a 19% improvement in underlying profit Polymer Chemicals before tax, and achieved a further substantial reduction in its debt over the course of the year.
This was a good performance, consolidating the substantial increase in profits and debt Total sales m reduction we delivered in 2009.
2009 443.3 Overview 2010 552.0 Polymers 85% of sales saw volumes increase by 4% for the year whilst increasing its operating profit by 10% to Divisional operating profit m 56.7 million.
As expected this was characterised by strong 2009 51.8 demand growth in Asia and only modest improvement elsewhere.
We progressed the expansion of our nitrile facility 2010 56.7 in Malaysia, commencing construction of 15,000 tonnes of new Underlying performance capacity which will start production in the first half of 2011.
The core products of Polymer Division are water-based The acquisition of PolymerLatex was announced in December emulsion polymers, formulated around vinyl acetate and acrylic 2010 and is on track to complete by the end of March 2011, and dispersions, styrene and nitrile butadiene rubber, as well as will substantially increase the scale of our Polymer business.
polyvinyl alcohol acetate, and a number of smaller specialist PolymerLatex is a leading global player in latex products, with products.
The Divisions manufacturing assets consist of a strong and diversified portfolio of products and well invested 22 production units on 14 sites within four geographical regions facilities in Europe and Asia.
Its combination with Yule Catto will Europe, South East Asia, Middle East and South Africa, and result in a business with increased scale, established market employing approximately 1,300 people.
The Division trades positions, improved cash generation capability and a product under the Synthomer and Revertex brand names around the portfolio that will provide a foundation from which the enlarged world, and its products are utilised in a wide range of industries, group can grow and compete more effectively in a consolidating including coatings, adhesives and construction, where they emulsion polymers market.
It will also accelerate our strategy deliver a range of product performance benefits, from of investment in new products and expansion into attractive enhanced waterproofing to scratch resistance.
It is also a major emerging markets.
supplier to the medical industry where its natural rubber and synthetic nitrile latex polymers, are used in the manufacture Pharmaceuticals 10% of sales saw a decline in profits, of of condoms, catheters, surgical and examination gloves where 1.1 million, after a slow start to the year.
We filed 3 Drug Master it holds a world leading position.
Files DMFs in the year as we continue to develop our generic pipeline.
The API manufacturing industry however remains 2010 proved to be another successful year for the Division, challenging with competition from cheaper manufacturing in challenging circumstances with progress again made on a economies in Asia continuing to develop.
In many markets there was positive economic recovery, particularly in Asia, however, Europe and the US proved We completed most of the restructuring of the Impact Division more sluggish and remained weaker than had been predicted.
with the sale of four of the five operating units over the course of In most markets volumes developed strongly through the first 2008.
During 2010 the remaining business, William Blythe, further half, although this was followed by more variable performance improved, delivering operating profits of some 3.5 million.
in some European markets in the later part of the year.
The Divisions full year polymer volumes were up 4%, led by excellent performance in nitrile butadiene rubber, alkyd resins and specialities which all delivered significant double digit growth.
Raw material supply and pricing, in particular acrylic and butadiene monomers, created a number of difficulties which the business worked hard to overcome throughout the year.
All monomer prices showed a resilient upward move during the year and this combined with a tight supply environment created a number of challenges for the business.
However the Division was generally able to mitigate these by effective procurement strategies enabling production to continue albeit with significantly higher input prices.
In the light of the rising raw material costs and relatively stable demand in Europe, the Divisions priority was to ensure a balanced approach to margin and volume with a continued focus on value delivery, which was broadly successful.
The cost strategy employed in 2009 delivered benefits in 2010 with full year costs down on 2009.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 07 Innovation interior 2 1 Emultex VV67-Series Revacryl 5737 Emultex VV67-Series is a new range of polymer dispersions Revacryl 5737 was developed as a new polymer for the introduced in 2010 for use in modern domestic wall and ceiling formulation of solvent free, low odour, emulsion paints for paints.
The Emultex VV67-Series uses new monomer interior decorating.
The polymer is used in high quality, combinations in the design of binders for highly washable, wash resistant paints.
Another innovative product created scrub resistant vinyl wall paints.
Emultex VV673 in particular can to meet the most stringent demands for environmentally be used in a wide range of matt and silk paint finishes and has friendly, low VOC, interior paints that are becoming been designed to meet stringent requirements set out by the increasingly important to global markets.
European Community eco-label regulations for indoor paints.
3 4 Revacryl 30128 Synthomer 3560 Revacryl 30128, a new, APEO free, pure acrylic copolymer Synthomer 3560 is a new cross-linked polymer latex for dispersion, was developed to complement our existing flooring woven carpets that meets the latest regulatory and indoor adhesive range.
Produced as an adhesive for laying carpet tiles, air quality requirements.
Synthomer 3560 gives a high quality it offers excellent adhesion to a wide range of backing materials.
carpet backing with good runnability on the coater and a The overall polymer design not only provides a permanently high penetration into the woven yarn.
The product has excellent tacky film to prevent loose lay carpet tiles from moving, but cut edge strength in the end application, leading to a high also allows the carpet to be lifted and replaced with ease.
Polymers saw volumes increase by 4%, whilst increasing operating profit by 10%.
com Yule Catto & Co plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2010 Chief Executives report continued We upgraded our latex and lithene research facilities during Compounds the year, and higher margin new product launches supported The European carpet market remains in a volatile state, profitability over the course of the year.
and while there is evidence that the market is strengthening, volumes declined slightly from 2009.
While a number of The UK business in particular suffered during the year with customers have reported anticipated improvements this three unplanned events holding back latex production volumes is yet to be reflected in visible demand or actual sales.
over the course of the year.
Butadiene supply issues in the first quarter were effectively resolved by sourcing higher cost raw Specialities materials from Europe, a styrene fire at the Stallingborough Polyvinyl Alcohol plant temporarily impacted production in the third quarter and Alcotex had another very good year with excellent progress the extremely cold weather in December reduced our ability in both volume and margin.
Demand globally recovered and to produce and ship.
volumes moved ahead strongly, with a particularly strong performance in Asia.
During the year further investment was Synthetic Latex made in improving plant performance which resulted in several Polymer Divisions Synthetic Latex dispersions business record months of production.
consists of two product families, Styrene Butadiene Rubber SBR manufactured in Germany and the UK and Nitrile Liquid Polybutadiene Butadiene Rubber NBR manufactured in the UK and Malaysia.
2010 saw a very strong recovery in Lithene sales on the back of a more buoyant automotive sector.
Volumes increased Overall SBR latex had a very positive year with a degree of strongly and the work on improving product mix has continued recovery in the construction and specialities market, with non to deliver benefits.
Further investments in the plant during the carpet volumes improving by almost 7% over 2009.
Previously year have delivered more consistent quality and the ability of mentioned issues in Stallingborough did limit progress in the this plant to produce at higher levels of output.
carpet market where conditions also remained difficult and volumes were down on prior year.
Alkyds and Polyester The recovery of industrial markets in South East Asia drove In NBR the business experienced strong demand for gloves, in demand for Alkyd resins while the lack of new infrastructure part bolstered by the high cost of natural rubber.
Margins were projects severely retarded Polyester sales.
The flexible nature of held stable in the face of rising monomer costs and strong these plants allowed more Alkyd Resin to be produced resulting competition.
To meet the continued growth in demand for NBR in a double digit volume increase and strong margins, while the Board approved a new phase of expansion in Malaysia, Polyester experienced a decline.
In aggregate, the combined which is expected to start up before the end of H1 2011 and business delivered a good volume increase, and improved add 15,000 tonnes of capacity.
Dispersions Natural Rubber 2010 was a disappointing year for Dispersions with low Natural Rubber had a very difficult year with volumes down 6%.
customer demand in the European decorative paint market.
Heavy rainfall in Southern Thailand and Malaysia resulted in Slightly lower volumes than 2009 were also experienced in lower volumes of field latex and CL60 which resulted in a strong South Africa and the Middle East however, strong margin and consistently upward move for the natural rubber price.
management allowed these businesses to deliver an improved These conditions forced many manufacturers to halt production, bottom line.
Asia, as in most other product groups, developed or switch to NBR where they could, resulting in the lowest sales positively during the year with volumes strongly ahead.
volume achieved for a number of years.
However, this volume deficit was more than compensated by higher pricing and increased margin.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information 2 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 09 1 4 3 Higher margin new product launches supported profitability over the course of the year.
Innovation infrastructure 1 2 Synthomer 11003 Synthomer 902-Series Synthomer 11003 is based on the latest styrene butadiene Synthomer has developed the 902-Series of SBR latices latex technology.
The next generation polymer for liquid for chemical bonding of polyester nonwoven reinforcement applied membrane products damp proof membranes has materials for roofing applications.
Modified bitumen membranes been specifically developed to meet demanding environmental for modern and ecological flat or low-slope roofing systems and regulatory needs.
The main application is protecting require high performance reinforcement materials, such as substrates like plasterboard and wood against water and fiber glass, polyester or composite materials.
The liquid membrane is typically applied highly cross-linked polymer, these latices provide excellent on the wall before tiling, for example, in bathrooms and similar processability as well as the required strength and thermowet room constructions.
dimensional stability performance in the finished nonwoven materials.
They contribute to the durability of modern flat roofing systems for both industrial and residential construction projects.
4 3 Revacryl 5840 Revacryl 5511 Revacryl 5840 is an environmentally friendly, APEO-free Revacryl 5511 enables the formulation of coatings with high and low odour styrene acrylic copolymer for primer water resistance, excellent crack bridging properties and low applications.
Revacryl 5840 has been designed to form dirt pick up.
A new elastomeric acrylic copolymer dispersion a polymer film sealing the substrate surface and ensuring has been introduced for flexible, exterior wall coatings.
The excellent adhesion of the subsequently applied levelling polymer was designed for coatings which are extremely flexible compound.
High performance primers are required for under cold conditions, but do not become tacky and attract dirt example when applying self levelling flooring compounds, at higher temperatures.
Coatings based on Revacryl 5511 can in order to ensure good bonding of the compound to the be applied to exterior walls with cracks of up to 2mm and substrate.
Revacryl 5840 has been designed to be used remain in excellent condition, even after exposure to low on mineral surfaces as a universal adhesion promoter in temperatures.
