Chief Executives review Factoring in the risks associated with future returns from the plant, including the length of time to complete, regulatory uncertainty and a continuation of the current market conditions, we have concluded that the plant is highly unlikely to be completed or commissioned in the foreseeable future.
As a result, the facility has been mothballed and has been written down to 17million, leading to an impairment of 217 million which has been recognised as an exceptional charge in the 2010 financial year.
A further exceptional charge of approximately 25million will be recognised during the 2011 Javed Ahmed financial year in respect of long-term contracts Chief Executive relating to the facility.
We will continue to seek ways to maximise shareholder value from the Fort Dodge plant in these circumstances.
Net debt decreased by 417 million, or 34%, Review of the year to 814 million, driven primarily by strong free cash flows from continuing operations.
Before Overview the effects of exchange, net debt decreased Tate & Lyle delivered a solid performance in by 338million.
The impact of exchange the face of challenging conditions in a number movements during the year, which reduced of our markets.
Adjusted operating profits debt by 79million, was due principally to the from core value added food ingredients grew strengthening of sterling against the US dollar strongly, increasing by 22% 14% in constant by 6% year on year.
Profits within primary The Board is recommending a maintained final ingredients in the Americas and Europe were dividend of 16.1p 2009 16.1p, making a full- 22% below the prior year at 98 million 27% year dividend of 22.9p per share, in line with the in constant currency, as lower co-product prior year.
The proposed final dividend will be income and weaker industrial profits adversely paid on 30 July 2010 to all shareholders on the impacted results.
Register of Members at 25 June 2010.
Sales for the year were 3,506 million, 1% During the year, we conducted a thorough, factlower 6% in constant currency than the prior based review of the Companys current position year.
Adjusted operating profit of 298 million and a detailed analysis of the opportunities and was in line with the prior year 7% lower in challenges we face.
Based on this review, we are constant currency.
Adjusted profit before tax implementing a number of fundamental changes was 229million, 7% lower 14% in constant to the way we are organised, in order to refocus currency than the prior year, reflecting an the Group to deliver sustainable long-term increase of 16million in the net finance expense growth.
These changes are described in for retirement benefit plans.
Adjusted diluted greater detail below.
earnings per share of 38.9p were 2% higher 2% lower in constant currency, benefiting from a lower effective tax rate of 20.4% 2009 27.3%.
Safety Exchange translation increased adjusted profit Safety remains the highest priority for us.
We are before tax by 19 million compared to the prior committed to providing safe and healthy working year.
Loss before tax after exceptional items and conditions for our employees, contractors and amortisation of acquired intangible assets was visitors.
Every year, we measure and report our 61 million compared to a profit of 113million safety performance and we aim for continuous in the prior year.
In 2009, our Group safety index improved by 3% although our Group contractor Total net exceptional charges before tax of safety index worsened after significant 276million 2009 119 million have been improvements in 2008.
Safety, including that of recognised in the year.
our contractors, will continue to be a major area of focus for 2010 as we work towards our target With regard to our plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa, in of a safety index of zero for all our operations.
In the last few months we have conducted detailed this regard, we were saddened to learn that last analyses of the end markets which the plant week, a fatality occurred at our joint-venture plant would supply under our new capital management in Turkey.
The continuing depressed and volatile outlook for ethanol, and uncertain conditions in industrial starch and corn gluten feed markets, Delivering on our short-term priorities do not provide any basis to complete and At the beginning of the year, recognising the need commission the plant.
to act decisively and quickly in the face of the global economic downturn, we set out our three Changes in feed and energy markets, near-term financial priorities for the business: to together with the reconfiguration of technology optimise working capital: implement tight capital required following our experience of installing expenditure control: and reduce our cost base.
new equipment at our Loudon plant, along with remobilisation costs, would mean that, if we I am pleased to report that, due to the were to complete Fort Dodge, total additional outstanding efforts of our employees across the costs would now be in the region of 70 million.
business, we have made significant progress in each of these areas.
Working capital reductions generated 291 million during the year, with improvements delivered by each operating Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 3 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview Chief executives review division and within each major area of the working Performance from primary industrial ingredients, capital base.
Capital expenditure of 79million comprising ethanol, native industrial starches and represented 68% of depreciation, in line with animal feed co-products was below the level of our commitment stated at the beginning of the the prior year due to lower animal feed co-product financial year to hold expenditure below the income and reduced industrial starch margins.
Underlying costs At Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe, adjusted reduced by 30million in the year compared operating profits of 54 million were 6% above to the comparative period, including the cost the prior year 4% in constant currency.
Within savings achieved from rationalising the sucralose Single Ingredients, profits from primary products manufacturing footprint, with reductions achieved were lower as reduced levels of capacity utilisation through our focus on all areas of the cost base.
impacted unit margins, particularly in the second half of the year, although the business continues A stronger balance sheet to benefit from the relative stability afforded by The Groups balance sheet has been strengthened isoglucose quotas in Europe.
Demand for value significantly during the year.
Net debt was reduced added food ingredients was steady, and unit by 34% to 814 million at 31March 2010 from margins increased with improved pricing.
This reduction Systems performance was above the prior year, has been achieved through a relentless focus as demand in key markets proved relatively on cash management within every area of the robust in the face of the economic downturn.
Tate & Lyle is a strongly cash generative business, and focus on cash management will Adjusted operating profits within the Sugars remain an ongoing priority.
division increased by 150% to 30 million 100% in constant currency reflecting improved margins in our EU sugar business during the second half Through resolute focus on of the year following the final institutional price change on 1 October 2009.
Performance also our financial priorities, we benefited from lower energy and distribution costs.
Our molasses and storage business performed have significantly strengthened the well in the year, with operating profit of 13 million, balance sheet.
although this was below the exceptionally strong profits achieved in the comparative period when the sharp spike in cereal prices during the The key performance indicators of our financial summer of 2008 led to very high demand strength, the ratio of net debt to earnings before and prices for molasses.
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Sucralose of 187 million Sales of SPLENDA EBITDA and interest cover, remain within our were 11% above the prior year 4% in constant internal targets.
Consistent with the Groups currency.
Following the significant yield financial strategy at least to maintain our improvements achieved during the 2009 financial investment-grade credit ratings, during the year, and the consequent decision to produce year we tightened our maximum target for net all sucralose at our fourth-generation facility in debt to EBITDA to 2.0 times from 2.5 times.
Singapore, the process of mothballing the plant At 31March2010, the net debt to EBITDA ratio in McIntosh, Alabama was completed ahead of was 1.8 times 2009 2.4 times, within our new schedule.
Adjusted operating profits decreased by target and comfortably within our bank covenants.
7% to 67 million 9% in constant currency due Interest cover on total operations at 31 March2010 to one-off credits of 4 million in the prior year, was 5.8 times 2009 6.1 times, again ahead of certain costs in the current year associated with our minimum target of 5.0 times and well ahead the rationalisation of the manufacturing footprint of our bank covenants.
and the relatively high costs in opening inventory During the year we announced that, with a view to which impacted cost of sales in the 2010 containing our pension costs and reducing balance financial year.
sheet volatility, we had entered into consultation Central costs increased to 31 million from with employees who were active members of 18million in the prior year.
During the year, we the UK Group Pension Scheme on the closure incurred one-off costs of 5 million related to the of that scheme to future accrual from April2011.
review and reorganisation of the Groups activities, Following completion of the consultation process, while the prior year included one-off credits the Company will close the Group scheme from totalling 6 million.
We also took the decision to remove the early retirement discretion from November Exceptional items 2009.
We have recognised an exceptional gain of Exceptional items within our continuing 42 million in the 2010 financial year arising from operations during the year totalled a net charge these changes.
Overview of divisional business Following a detailed analysis of end markets, in performance light of costs of around 70 million to complete Adjusted operating profit at Food & Industrial and commission our plant in Fort Dodge, and Ingredients, Americas was 178 million, 2% factoring in the risks associated with future returns below the prior year 10% in constant currency.
from completing and operating the plant, we have Operating profits from value added food concluded that the plant is highly unlikely to be ingredients increased by 18% 9% in constant completed or commissioned in the foreseeable currency, reflecting firmer pricing and steadier future.
As a result, the facility has been mothballed demand patterns.
Operating profits in primary food and written down to 17million, leading to an ingredients were below the prior year due to lower impairment of 217 million which has been co-product income from the sale of corn oil.
