Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review Applying our focused strategy to our value cycle gives us the opportunity to deliver further growth in shareholder value.
How we create value and measure performance for our shareholders: Strategy A clear strategy for the future p9 Key performance indicators A measured approach p10 Risks and uncertainties Effectively managing risk in the delivery of our strategy p12 Pete Redfern Group Chief Executive Having strengthened our financial Highlights for the year position during 2009, we have delivered Having a significant improvement in our financial We have delivered a significant performance in 2010.
This reflects a improvement in the Groups strengthened our combination of the continuing benefits performance during 2010: of the operational decisions that we took Growth in profitability in both the in 2008 and the delivery of our strategy financial position UK and North America.
for recovery that I set out in last years AnnualReport.
during 2009, we Reduced pension deficit.
Developing our strategy have delivered Strong cash generation.
After a year of greater stability in our markets in the UK and North America during 2009, 2010 has brought a broadly a significant stable year in the UK market and, as expected, some volatility in the US.
It is, improvement therefore, very pleasing to have been able to deliver such a strong improvement in our financial in the performance of the Group without the assistance that a market performance recoveryprovides.
We enter 2011 with a continuing focus in 2010. on maximising the value that we achieve from each home completion across all of the Groups operations and we have made good progress in the key areas of pricing, build cost reduction, replanning and additions to our landbank, as you will see in the regional sections of this AnnualReport.
8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
