Watch the video: Chief Executives www.
com annualreport2010 resultspresentation review This years results show another Each element of our strategy UK, business by 2050: to reduce the solid performance from across International, Non-food, Retailing carbon impact of the products in our the Group.
By staying focused Services and Community is stronger supply chain by 30% by 2020: and to on doing the right thing for now than this time last year.
help our customers halve their own carbon footprint by 2020.
And were customers we have weathered the economic storm well.
And by In International, our businesses have making good progress already.
remaining committed to our longmade good progress in a challenging term strategy we are emerging global economic environment.
Our Were delivering for all stakeholders: from recession stronger with strategy is working weve grown an improved shopping trip for good building blocks in place sales, profits and market shares and customers: training and good careers for future growth.
weve continued to invest in the drivers for our staff: growth and innovation of future growth.
Our performance with our suppliers: in local communities in Asia was particularly pleasing, were supporting causes that matter our business in Europe held up to customers: and were delivering well despite the obvious economic good returns to shareholders.
challenges and I believe the start-up losses in our US business will now Looking forward begin to reduce as Fresh & Easy The outlook for shareholder returns establishes itself.
is encouraging: we have a strong core UK business growing well: our Our UK business had a good year.
international businesses offer significant By remaining focused on helping upside from recovery in the short customers spend less and encouraging term and maturity in the longer term: loyalty with an increased investment our balance sheet is strengthening: in Clubcard, our UK business has and were creating value through delivered a solid performance.
In our good property development.
core grocery operations, were growing ahead of the industry as a whole and Our positions in high-growth we have been less affected by falling international economies and non-food inflation than the market at large.
meant we were always likely to face strong headwinds during the recession In Non-food we have made good but it will be these parts of our business progress.
In the UK we achieved a which will grow fastest in the recovery particularly strong performance in and beyond.
Our clothing range is becoming an I am confident that with the prospect international success, led by our F&F of an improving global economy and range which is growing rapidly in our recent investments in acquisitions and European markets and this year was new selling space making a greater launched in four countries in Asia.
contribution going forward, returns will improve significantly starting Our Retailing Services have grown this year.
sales and profits once again.
Weve also been building the platforms for future growth, particularly in Tesco Bank, which is making good progress in developing its own systems and people capabilities as well as working Sir Terry Leahy on a broader product range as it Chief Executive moves towards becoming a fullservice retail bank.
In the same way that weve stuck to our strategy in other parts of the business, weve also remained committed to our work on Community and the environment.
In October, we set ourselves three challenging longterm targets: to become a zero-carbon 8 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
