Directors Report Group Chief Executive Of cers statement RESPONDING TO THE CHALLENGE We recognised at the outset that 2009 10 would be demanding given the uncertain economic outlook and, accordingly, we took early action to deal with the challenges.
While we made good progress in many of our operating segments and delivered a strong improvement in operating cash ow, trading in the UK was even tougher than anticipated.
I am con dent that the actions we have now taken to reinforce the UK business, together with continued progress on our strategic initiatives, leave us well positioned to make progress in the current year.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa Group Chief Executive Of cer 6 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 6 6 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:15 22:15 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements balance payments and harmonising supplier GROUP RESULTS Adjusted underlying pro t paymentterms.
This has been partly offset by Group revenue for the 12 months ended increased hotelier deposits required in some from operations 30 September 2010 was 8,890m 2009: cases and a reduction in creditors.
9,269m, down 4% 5% on a constant currency basis, mainly re ecting planned The closure of European airspace in As a result of this, and despite the dif cult capacity reductions in our winter 2009 10 April 2010 had a signi cant impact trading environment, the Group achieved a mainstream travel programme and lost sales on the operations of the Thomas Cook signi cant improvement in cash ow, with as a result of the volcanic ash cloud incident.
As well as incurring 52.9m a 121m increase in operating cash ow of direct exceptional costs to to299m.
Adjusted underlying pro t from operations manage the welfare and repatriate was 391m 2009: 415m.
This was the The Group cash out ow before changes our customers stranded in resort, result of reduced capacity and the impact of in debt was reduced to 117m compared management estimates that the lost weaker Sterling on ying and accommodation with an out ow of 314m in the prior year.
margin from not being able to operate costs, which was partially mitigated by cost Group net debt at year end was 804m our ight programme during this time initiatives in accommodation purchasing, and headroom on banking facilities at was 29.2m.
Given the uniqueness airline operations and general overheads.
of this incident and the distortion Despite the challenging conditions, our management believes the margin SUCCESSFUL REFINANCING Central Europe and Airlines Germany loss causes to our results, we have During the year, we successfully replaced businesses recorded much improved results excluded this margin impact from our previous bank facility with new funding.
of 61m 2009 restated: 50m and 54m the underlying pro t from operations The new arrangements, which amount 2009: 47m respectively.
These mainly that we discuss in both the Group to 1,700m in total, comprise a 1,050m resulted from product and ef ciency Chief Executive Of cers Statement and banking facility and 650m of bonds Sterling improvements in both businesses and the Operating and Financial Reviews.
Taken together, they provide the reduced depreciation charges in Airlines We refer to this pro t measure as Group with a simpler borrowing framework, Germany.
The Northern Europe pro t of Adjusted underlying pro t from longer and varied maturities and greater 94m 2009 restated: 87m was also up and operations.
Unadjusted numbers have exibility and funding going forward.
West & East Europe, which reported a pro t been provided in the statutory income of 87m 2009 restated: 86m, did well VOLCANIC ASH IMPACT AND statement and related notes.
considering the dif cult economic conditions OURRESPONSE in some of theirmarkets.
The volcanic ash cloud from Iceland closed the majority of airspace above Northern The UK segment faced a challenging year, Customer service Europe for almost six days in April, and it in part due to signi cant foreign exchange then took up to five days before the vast UK headwinds and softer demand over the majority of our customers had been returned summer and, as a result, adjusted underlying 76% home.
Further isolated closures in April and operating pro t was 124m, down 24% on 2009: 76% May impacted individual markets.
Continued mainstream overcapacity in the Canadian market impacted North I am extremely proud of the way in which Americas pro ts which fell to 10m all our people at Thomas Cook pulled Central Europe 2009 restated: 18m.
together to respond to this crisis.
The scale 71% of the event was vast, involving c. 180,000 Reducing exceptional costs is a key area of 2009: 72% customers stranded in resort, c. 190,000 focus for the Group.
Excluding volcanic ash customers unable to depart on holiday costs of 53m, other exceptional charges fell and over 1,000 cancelled ights.
Our wellWest & East Europe from 217m to 132m as the integration rehearsed emergency procedures sprung costs associated with the MyTravel merger 79% into action and the team led a professional fell away.
Further detail can be found in the 2009: 79% operation to reassure and assist customers, Financial Review on pages 42 to 45 and in while simultaneously working with industry note 6 to the Group financial statements.
colleagues and the aviation authorities to Northern Europe The net interest charge for the year remained coordinate a return to normal ying.
72% The letters of thanks and praise that we 2009: 72% received from customers are testament to Overall, the Group delivered a statutory pro t the dedication of our people and the event before tax of 42m compared with 45m last highlighted again the added security of year, and the reported pro t after tax was North America booking a package holiday.
93% UK RESTRUCTURING AND HIGH STREET The adjusted underlying earnings per share 2009: 91% TRAVEL MERGER was 22.8p 2009 restated: 25.0p.
The basic Given the challenges experienced in the UK, loss per share was 0.3p 2009 restated and the uncertain outlook, we undertook a earnings per share: 0.8p.
Airlines Germany comprehensive review of the UK cost base 73% STRONG CASHFLOW PERFORMANCE and the structure of our UK operations 2009: 74% During the year, there has been a concerted towards the financial year end.
effort across the Group to produce a sustainable improvement in cash ow.
This This review has resulted in a re-organisation Source: Standardised customer satisfaction measure based on has largely been delivered through improved of the UK into three divisions Mainstream, mainstream customer surveys in each of our source markets.
working capital management by raising Independent and Retail to reduce complexity customer deposit levels, accelerating holiday and give greater accountability and visibility of operations.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 7 7 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:15 22:15 This deal represents the last signi cant Our strategy is focused on strengthening our Directors Report consolidation opportunity in UK travel, mainstream, package holiday and financial Group Chief Executive Of cers combining two of the industrys strongest services businesses and investing in areas of statement continued and most complementary travel brands and future growth, primarily independent travel distribution networks to reach out to a wider and new markets.
As a result of the restructuring, we expect customer base than either company could During the year, we began work on a number to generate annualised overhead savings achieve independently.
of strategic initiatives that, we believe, have of 40m to 50m through the reduction of It will unlock annualised synergies within the potential to raise the Group operating over 500 managerial and support roles: the the merged entity of 35m at a one-off cost pro t margin by a further 100 to 150 basis renegotiation of supplier costs and reduction of 30m and further upstream synergies in points over the medium term.
in buying requirements: and by consolidating Thomas Cook from additional mainstream and upgrading our IT infrastructure.
These, The progress on our key strategic initiatives is and independent product sales of 10m.
and other savings, will be achieved in full highlighted below and a full Strategic Review Thomas Cook will own 66.5% of the merged in the financial year ending 30 September is set out on pages 12 to 14. entity, The Co-operative Group will own 2012, helping to mitigate input cost pressures 30% and Midlands Co-operative will own Mainstream travel and any further deterioration in the trading 3.5%.
Whilst the merger is still subject to The strategy for our Mainstream travel environment.
We estimate that at least 30m competition clearance, we are working business is to improve product mix, whilst of savings will be achieved in the current year with the relevant authorities to achieve an reducing operating costs, thus driving and that the cost of approximately 20m to expedited clearance.
During the year, we implement all of the planned savings will be made good progress on a number of fronts.
incurred in the current year.
We believe that the restructuring, combined with the merger with The Co-operatives, In relation to costs, we established a new The UK business will also bene t from our will greatly strengthen our UK business Group Destination Management function plan to merge our UK high street travel going forward.
with direct control over more than 1bn of and foreign exchange business with that accommodation spend and average Group of The Co-operative Group and Midlands CONFIDENCE IN OUR STRATEGY accommodation costs as a percentage of Co-operative.
This will create the UKs largest Despite the challenging trading conditions sales reduced year-on-year by 120 basis high street travel network with around this year, we remain con dent that the global points to 32.5%.
travel market will return to growth and that together across our segments, our airlines our strategy is the right one to capture that delivered 19m incremental airline synergies growth and deliver value to our shareholders.
from fuel ef ciency improvements and joint tendering.
In addition, good cost reductions were achieved in all of our operating segments, assisted by Group Procurement.
OUR STRATEGY IS FOCUSED ON STRENGTHENING OUR MAINSTREAM, PACKAGE HOLIDAY AND FINANCIAL SERVICES In terms of product mix, we improved our share of differentiated and exclusive BUSINESSES AND INVESTING IN AREAS OF FUTURE GROWTH, products in all major markets and, through PRIMARILY INDEPENDENT TRAVEL AND NEW MARKETS the acquisition of ger Tours, we have strengthened our offering to Turkey from Germany.
We also increased controlled and Our Group Executive Board online distribution to 52% 2009: 51% and 23% 2009: 22% respectively.
Thomas Cook Group operates a eet of 93 aircraft with an average age of 12 years.
The Group has identi ed signi cant operational savings, particularly from maintenance and improved fuel ef ciency, that can be achieved by renewing and harmonising its 71 narrow body aircraft within a common eet.
Following a comprehensive review, the Group has selected the Airbus 320 family of aircraft.
Accordingly, the Group will begin a five-year narrow body aircraft replacement programme, starting in December 2012 and phased in line with the planned retirement of the existing eet.
The replacement programme will deliver optimum exibility by sourcing new narrow body aircraft through a combination of rm and exible orders direct with the manufacturer and From left to right: Back row: Jrgen Bser, Pete Constanti, Thomas Dring, Paul Hollingworth, Ralf Teckentrup and Paul Wood.
though accessing the aircraft leasing market.
Front row: Ian Derbyshire, Peter Fankhauser, Michael Friisdahl, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Sam Weihagen and Derek Woodward.
A review of the wide body eet replacement requirements will be undertaken during the current year.
see pages 46 to 48 for full biographies As part of the replacement programme, the Group has reached a memorandum of understanding with Airbus for 12 new 8 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p06 15. indd TH017 p06 15. indd 8 8 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:15 22:15 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Airbus 321 aircraft scheduled to be delivered US$10m in cash.
The joint venture will Next stop: London 2012 in 2014, with a list price of US$96m each, include Intourists outbound, domestic and together with options to purchase further inbound tour operating operations as well Back in 1896 Thomas Cook escorted aircraft from 2015.
These aircraft are subject as its travel retail network.
The joint venture UK customers to the first modern to substantial price concessions from the list provides Thomas Cook with an entry into the Olympic Games in Athens.
The Group will remain a heavy user fast-growing Russian market with a strong of cial supporter of the London 2012 of operating leases and it is anticipated that local partner.
Subject to anti-trust clearance Olympic and Paralympic Games, directly purchased aircraft will be nanced in Russia and certain other conditions, the Thomas Cook will be selling short through sale and leaseback agreements with joint venture is expected to complete in or breaks, including of cial event tickets third-party lessors.
before February 2011. and accommodation, to the London For the eet as a whole, it is estimated SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 2012 Games.
that the reduced running costs of the new To secure our future success for the long term aircraft will more than finance the increased we need to address the long-term challenges ownership costs.
It is not anticipated that the facing the travel industry.
We have made overall eet size will increase as a result.
The progress during the year in all areas of our Group expects to sign final contracts early in sustainability strategy including maintaining the New Year.
a committed and engaged workforce, providing a great holiday experience for Travel-related financial services customers whilst ensuring their security Travel-related financial services contributed and safety, improving fuel ef ciency and 14% of Group adjusted underlying operating monitoring the carbon emissions from pro t. In the UK, we increased our share of our aircraft and encouraging sustainable the foreign exchange market from 13% to practices within our supply chain.
A full 15% and became the number one global report on our progress is provided on pages provider of cash passports supplied by 38 to 41.
Travelex, tapping into the rising popularity of pre-paid currency cards.
Additionally, PROUD OF OUR PEOPLE I would also like to personally thank all our we boosted our online travel insurance During the year, we welcomed Paul people for their hard work and commitment capability by acquiring EssentialTravel.
Hollingworth as Group Chief Financial Of cer.
to the Group over the last year.
It has been Pauls appointment has strengthened the Independent travel and Online challenging at times and the effort and leadership team signi cantly and we have Travel Agent OTA energy they have shown has been invaluable.
bene ted from his previous experience as Our objective with independent travel is to Chief Financial Of cer of a number of major CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK grow both the top and bottom line, largely UK listed companies.
Our business has proved its resilience in through the development of our European challenging times.
The Group Executive Board has continued to show strong leadership and we made a As we enter the current year, although the In the year, we saw independent travels number of changes that enable us to manage UK environment remains uncertain, we are share of Group sales grow from 25% to 27% more effectively going forward.
In November encouraged by a better market environment and passengers grow by 5%.
2009, Jrgen Bser, having recovered well in our major Continental and Scandinavian following a period of ill health, returned to Signi cantly, we established the OTA markets.
Winter bookings are off to a good the business to take up the role of Group organisation under the leadership of Thomas start and, although early in the cycle, Strategy Director.
Pete Constanti, previously Dring, attracting high calibre people summer bookings are developing well.
Chief Executive Of cer, Mainstream Travel from well known internet companies and We have taken further actions to simplify UK, was appointed to the new Group role of delivered sales with a gross booking value and streamline our UK business which Chief Executive Of cer, Group Destination of 1bn, an increase of 22% on the previous will result in signi cant cost savings on an Management, and Ian Derbyshire, previously year.
This is a vital area for the Group and our annualised basis, helping to mitigate input Chief Executive Of cer, Independent Travel first priority is to optimise sales of our own cost pressures and any further deterioration UK, was appointed Chief Executive Of cer, UK.
package holidays through the e-commerce in the trading environment.
In May 2010, Thomas Dring, Chief Executive channel.
We are also developing plans to Of cer, West & East Europe, expanded his broaden our offering of city breaks and We are con dent that the actions we have role, taking on additional responsibility for accommodation with bene ts expected to now taken to reinforce the UK business, spearheading our OTA initiative.
ow over the next two to three years.
together with continued progress on our strategic initiatives, leave us well positioned Emerging markets Ludger Heuberg, Chief Executive Of cer, to make progress in the current year.
As a Group, we continue to see large potential Group Operations, who provided interim opportunity in new, particularly emerging support as Acting Group Chief Financial markets, where travel and GDP growth rates Of cer, and Alexis Coles-Barrasso, Group far outstrip our existing markets.
We already Director PR & Communications, stepped operate in India, Egypt and Eastern Europe down to pursue other opportunities.
I would and, in 2010, 1.3m customers travelled with like to thank them both for their valued us from these markets.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa On 25 November 2010, Thomas Cook As part of the UK restructuring, we had Group Chief Executive Of cer 30 November 2010 reached agreement to form a joint venture to part with a number of our colleagues with VAO Intourist, one of Russias most following the year end.
The downsizing in no renowned travel companies.
Thomas Cook way re ects upon their ability or passion for will acquire a 50.1% stake in the joint venture the business and they go with our gratitude for a consideration of US$45m, comprising and best wishes for the future.
