Chief Executives Review Recall that Autonomy's fundamental and unique meaning-based technology allows computers to make sense of human friendly information such as emails, phone calls and video rather than the traditional database information that we have had to make do with.
This year we have seen customers choose new routes to exploiting this information, with Autonomy becoming one of the leading players in cloud computing as our customers have transitioned to the private cloud model faster than expected, which is a longer-term but more valuable annuity stream.
Dear Autonomy Investor, 2010 was a year of transition for us.
During the year Autonomys technology and its ability to extract meaning from human friendly information has spearheaded the Meaning Based Computing movement forward with new applications of the technology and mission critical usages by our customers.
Human-friendly information and the need to process it has continued to grow rapidly with applications in customer interaction, legal, regulatory and, as a result of new smart phone technology, mobile leading the way.
As in years past, I take great pleasure in presenting to you these results from a remarkable year during which your company has reached new heights.
Born from the work of researchers at Cambridge University, through today with more than 20,000 customers across seven continents using Autonomys meaning-based technology, the company has gone from strength to strength.
Recall that Autonomy's fundamental and unique meaning based technology allows computers to make sense of human friendly information such as emails, phone calls and video rather than the traditional database information that we have had to make do with up to now.
Human-friendly information is growing rapidly at a combined rate of 63% per year.
Today, Autonomy is firmly established as the leading provider of Pan-Enterprise Search and Meaning Based Computing MBC solutions.
Autonomys unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL platform enables organisations to harness the full richness of human information by extracting meaning from the mass of unstructured information they handle every day, which analysts estimate to constitute over 80% of all enterprise data.
This includes email, web pages, social media, blogs, instant messaging, documents, audio and video files.
It does this by automatically extracting the concepts within information, making it visible, understood and actionable, without the need for human intervention.
Over the last six years, Autonomy has been one of the best performing software companies in the world, despite the turbulent economy.
During that time we have seen a six year adjusted EPS CAGR of 65% and Autonomy has grown to become one of Europes largest software companies.
2010 and Into the Future This year we have seen Autonomy become one of the leading players in cloud computing as our customers, who can choose to take up our core functionality by traditional product, IDOL OEM or IDOL Cloud offering, have transitioned to the private cloud model faster than expected.
This trend can be seen in the unexpected rise in our commit metric contracts entered into by the customer with an expected minimum spend.
The IDOL OEM and IDOL Cloud routes are highly attractive to us as they turn one-off sales into multi-year committed annuity streams, and these new fast-growing routes are becoming the dominant usage models for our technology.
However there is a short-term effect of suppressing growth rates as those one-off sales which were recognised immediately are replaced by longer-term but more valuable annuity streams.
4 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives Review One of the things about managing a technology company is it's often Drivers unwise to call the exact transitions which are going to happen in advance.
It is worth spending some time discussing the purchasing drivers for our Autonomys approach is to hedge the transition, thus we'five allowed our products.
customers to buy our IDOL technology either as product, or as a cloud subscription model, or as OEM.
The fundamental overarching driver is the move to unstructured information.
If you think about it, the amount of human-friendly information, Autonomy continues to be chosen to handle the worlds most complex legal such as prose, emails, phone calls or video, is exploding.
In fact, we all cases and regulatory issues, for both corporates and regulators, including carry around little unstructured information computers in our pockets now in the largest lawsuits in the world such as BP and, as reported by industry the form of smartphones such as the iPhone.
The amount of information is analysts, has continued to gain market share in areas such as legal and not only going up, but more and more business processes are being done archiving.
using unstructured information, and so the need to automatically process that information is becoming more and more fundamental.
The year saw strong investment in the future of the business with the opening of new offices in places like Latin America, increased R&D spend The choices about how to process this information are relatively simple: and investment in the infrastructure for this cloud capability with Autonomy you either use Autonomy to automate the process, or use human beings to now handling over 17 petabytes of critical customer information in the process a manual task.
With this in mind, there's not much alternative than cloud.
Whilst we continue to provide our core IDOL technology in to use more and more technology going forward.
whichever model the customer chooses, we are delighted with the transition to the cloud, and expect to reap the benefits of these cumulative To understand how this transition might play out, it is helpful to look back to subscription revenues in years to come.
the rise of the relational database market and how that developed.
Phase I was where people were buying the benefit of an application built on a We'five also seen very strong growth in IDOL OEM, which is now seeing database, but they didnt really understand that the differentiator between IDOL used by most major software companies across almost all sectors of applications was the underlying database.
Phase II was when people in the software industry.
This growth is not only coming from the number of the market realized that there was actually such a thing as the relational new products coming to market, products signed up around two years ago database and that the selection of the database was a key decision as all of that are now coming to market, but we'five continued to sign up more these apparently different problems were in fact linked by the same ability.
One must remember though that there can be Phase III was the maturity of the market.
some seasonality in IDOL OEM sales as they are predicated on the rest of the software industry sales, and the period over which those vendors report Industry analysts now consider that we are towards the end of Phase I of their sales to us.
this emerging market, perhaps beginning Phase II, and that's a period of good growth and understanding.
Autonomy sees this position reflected in As discussed more below, our technology has multiple use cases which we the number of standardization deals where companies are realizing that discuss in areas we call Power, Protect and Promote.
During 2010 we'five this is something that they have to adopt across all areas of corporate IT.
seen further consolidated leadership in the Power area with a series of standardization agreements across all sectors, and we also saw some of Financial Highlights our competitors actually withdraw from our market.
In the Protect area In 2010 we again produced record results in every area, which enabled us we're seeing no slowdown in demand: more and more regulations are to grow and invest.
In 2010, all key financial metrics again rose from our arriving every day.
We see this as the beginning of changes to the previous records in 2009.
2010 financial achievements included: regulatory environment, not an end.
In the Promote area we're seeing good, solid penetration of that market, with new technologies, including Record full year revenues of $870 million, up 18% from 2009 Autonomy's largest Promote deal in its history.
Strong growth in core IDOL business: IDOL OEM growth of 32%: strong growth in IDOL Cloud revenues Unlike most others in the sector, Autonomys business performed well Increasing contracts reflected in our commit number during the downturn resulting in Autonomy reporting growth on growth Full year organic growth in core business of 17% 2009: 22% unlike others who are now seeing growth as a return to normal levels.
Rise in deferred revenue during the year Autonomy in 2010 continued to perform well, particularly in light of these Operating margins adj.
in Q4 within target range of 45% tougher comparative periods due to our strong growth in 2009 and the Full year diluted EPS adj.
IFRS at $1.20 up 24% from 2009 IFRS: transition to longer-term value revenue models.
$0.89, up 12% Cash conversion for 2010 at 87%, up significantly from 80% in 2009 In 2010 we saw transitions in the business and significant investments for Strong investment in business with R&D up 16% from 2009 which we expect to reap the rewards in coming years.
We also saw in Positive cash flow generated by ops.
of $363 million 2009: $287 Q3 2010 volatility in customer assessment of the macro environment, which million, up 27% now seems to have reduced.
Gross cash of $1.1 billion at year end Our growth and expansion has always been driven by the goal of Once again, 2010 saw an unprecedented number of multi-million dollar establishing Autonomy as the key infrastructure for the automated handling contracts 94 deals and continued year-on-year growth up 42%, and of all forms of unstructured information such as text, audio and video.
some of the largest deals in the companys history.
Following this unwavering goal we have achieved sales success and proven our profitable business model, and have created a special software company which is leading the market.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Chief Executives Review the year.
Our multi-channel offerings including optimisation and real-time R&D and Products analytics have proven extremely attractive, leading to the companys Our strong R&D investment, including an increase in R&D spend in 2010 of largest ever deal in this area.
At the close of the year, Autonomy was 16%, continues to bear fruit.
pleased to count virtually the entire Fortune 1000 group of companies as customers.
In 2010 Autonomy introduced the power of Meaning Based Computing to the last of the major knowledge professions to benefit from widespread use The business value of Autonomys infrastructure technology and its of electronic formats: Healthcare.
Drawing on world-leading medical demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our average selling price for expertise, the Auminence solution seeks to improve the reliability of clinical meaning-based technologies, which remained stable throughout 2010 at diagnoses and minimize information risks for healthcare providers.
year drew to a close we were delighted to have already sealed our first major licence agreements for this revolutionary new product.
Market Position and Penetration Other developments of Autonomys industry-leading IDOL technology Autonomys market leadership position strengthened during 2010.
We saw during 2010 included: a continuation of the chaining effect as customers deploy IDOL across functional areas that have traditionally been isolated and served by different Worlds first Meaning Based multi-channel customer interaction software vendors.
Ultimately this leads to a growing number of enterpriseanalytics application: wide standardisation customers.
Competition during the year also became Unique integrated web content management, search, optimization and slightly more benign with major players pulling out of our market.
rich media on a single platform: Industrys first Social Media Governance platform, protecting Amongst industry analysts we elevated our positions, being rated number organisations across all social media channels: one across multiple industry analyst reports and segments, including IDCs Industrys first Meaning Based risk management platform for law firms: Worldwide Search and Discovery Software 2010-2014 forecast, and the and Forrester Wave 2010 for Online Testing.
Other accolades included: Meaning Based coding for eDiscovery.
Rated by IDC as fastest-growing archiving software company and the leading provider of search and discovery software: Sales and Customers Rated Strong Positive in Gartners eDiscovery market report: 2010 brought continued enterprise-wide adoption and broader Positioned as leader in Gartners 2010 Magic Quadrant for Web understanding of the Meaning Based Computing approach, with sustained Content Management: and demand from customers despite the wider economic turmoil.
The Achieved the highest score in the Forrester Wave 2010 for Online fundamental shift to unstructured information continues apace, and there is Testing, based on current offering, product strategy, corporate strategy growing recognition that automation and processing are the only viable and market presence.
During the year, the three distinct and compelling drivers for our business discussed above became evident as customers Other industry awards during 2010 included: deployed Autonomys technology across applications to protect, promote and power the enterprise.
Received Her Majesty The Queens Award for Enterprise in the category of continuous achievement in international trade: Our initial goal was to get a 25% increase in email Received top honours at the sixth annual law technology news awards conversions.
Instead, Autonomy reported a 73% for our end-to-end eDiscovery platform: and Sushovan Hussain, CFO, was presented with FTSE 100 Finance improvement compared with the beginning Director of the Year Award at the FDs Excellence Awards supported of the year.
While many enterprise software vendors suffered from the deteriorating Acquisitions macroeconomic environment, Autonomys strong financial performance Autonomy is one of the least acquisitive players in the software universe demonstrated the benefits of our unique software-driven business model.
and has only made three major acquisitions Verity in 2005: ZANTAZ in This was also a year of investment as we laid the ground for major new 2007: and Interwoven in 2009 in its fifteen year history.
Each was in IDOL-based products and began to equip the company for the sustained pursuit of a clear strategic goal: to make the IDOL platform the universal upturn to the global economy.
standard for processing unstructured information, just as the database is the universal standard for structured information.
With these strategic We saw growth across the globe during the year, in acquisitions we have accelerated the adoption of Autonomys technology in virtually every geographic and vertical market we specific markets, and linked together disparate end-markets, for example, serve.
We continue to win marquee customers in combining call centres with web interaction to give a 360 degree view of the emerging economies across Asia, Eastern Europe customer.
It is not part of Autonomys strategy to acquire vertical applications or As expected, the adoption of our technology for Protect usages continued businesses that are founded on a professional services engagement strongly throughout the year with a whole series of new regulations coming model.
This makes traditional software style acquisitions difficult to do, into effect which is driving our business.
We are still seeing very large because Autonomy sells a horizontal platform, and wants to retain a pure deals in this area and expect this to continue for the foreseeable future high margin software business model.
Given the focus on broadening the across most industry sectors.
We have also seen strong take-up of our adoption of IDOL technology only acquisitions that would clearly further this technology for Promote usages, with customers such as Allstate, AT&T, goal are considered.
It is crucial to understand how this has driven Belgacom, Blackrock, BNP Paribas, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Autonomys strategy to date.
Euronews, Health Care Services Corporation, Safeway and Verizon during 6 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives Review In this area, Autonomy has a track record of success, these being some management down.
We'five made some key promotions internally in the facts of note: areas of partner management, including a new layer of subject matter experts on the marketing side.
We also massively expanded our data Three strategic acquisitions in company history with net aggregate centre capacity and opened new offices in emerging markets such as Brazil value of $1.3 billion, representing approximately 20% of current market and India, with additional investment expected in 2011. capitalisation: Combined annual profits of acquired companies at the time of We'five also continued to reorganise our partner managers around the three acquisition was approximately $43 million, representing less than 12% usage cases of technology of Power, Protect and Promote.
Areas like of Autonomys 2010 profits: sales and marketing are becoming aligned to support these use case The average share price return for Autonomys shares from the three drivers as a business.
major transaction announcements to 12 months post-closure is 44%: Revenue and cost synergies have lead to average EPS accretion of During 2010 we welcomed two new highly-skilled individuals to the Board more than 65% after 12 months: as Non-Executive Directors.
Jonathan Bloomer, our new permanent chair Accelerated growth in acquired businesses: and of the Audit Committee, brings extensive financial and management Companies fully integrated within two quarters following closure.
Professor Frank Kelly brings an academic background to contribute to the extension of Autonomys world-leading technology.
Whilst it was our hope and expectation that we would be able to announce a strategic acquisition in 2010, uncertainty is the very nature of these Trends transactions.
The Directors continue to take a prudent view towards Last year I reported that we saw our strongest growth in the new models of acquisitions and will only undertake transactions when they meet the the software industry such as OEM and cloud computing.
course of 2010 we saw the balance of our business shift towards IDOL Cloud and IDOL OEM being the key drivers of our business.
2010 saw two small transactions with the acquisition of the assets of CA Technologies Information Governance business, further strengthening During the year our constituencies began to understand how these models Autonomy's leadership position in Meaning Based Governance, and the differ from traditional software businesses, and we saw the expected acquisition of MircoLink LLC, intended to accelerate the adoption of momentum in these areas.
Autonomy technology in U. S. state and federal government accounts.
Neither transaction was expected to have a material impact on Autonomy's We believe the growth rates seen across our business lines in Q4 2010 prospects or results, neither on revenue nor profits, nor save for the projected forward provide a solid baseline on top of which our current payment of the cash consideration on cash or cash flows of the group.
record pipeline and commit imply that current market expectations are conservative.
Shareholder Return Whilst it is not my place to comment on the companys share price, I note As in 2009, global events such as the Gulf oil spill laid bare the that Autonomy has consistently outperformed indices and peers to build fundamental change of the IT world to the usage of unstructured long-term shareholder value.
Our performance during the past eight years, information, the very essence of what drives Autonomy.
The net result is whilst retaining one of the most dedicated and modestly compensated the continuing convergence of legal and operational information systems management teams, has delivered significant returns for shareholders.
and the continued understanding of the need to manage based on Autonomy will continue to make fundamental decisions on the basis of meaning.
long-term shareholder return rather than in reaction to short-term issues.
We began 2011 with the strongest Meaning Based Computing portfolio in the industry and an ever-expanding understanding in the market of the Autonomy has risen from nothing to a multi-billion challenges associated with unstructured information.
With our unmatched pound business in a little more than ten years, and is product portfolio, scale and vision, we look forward to the challenges to be widely acknowledged as being the definitive knowledge presented in 2011 regardless of the environment.
Daily Telegraph, September 2009 I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, employees and partners for their continued support.
Operations As has always been the case throughout Autonomys development, we continually promote or bring in new talent based on changes in the markets or the evolution of the size and scale of the organisation.
This is an ongoing process always subject to adjustment.
In this regards during the year we increased management breadth with the appointment and Dr. Michael R. Lynch promotion of senior management across all areas of the business, including Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder a new head of Latin American sales, and some key new hires in areas like 22 February 2011 professional services, as well as broadening out the next layer of Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7
