Chief Operating Officers review Driving process and performance Operationally, 2010 has seen unprecedented levels of activity for ABG.
For the first time, all four of our mines were operational for the full year, although we faced a number of challenges in our operating environment that impacted on our overall Group production levels.
Marco Zolezzi 2010 2009 % Variance Key initiatives and priorities for 2011 Operating results Deliver maximum sustainable production and cost discipline Tonnes mined thousands of tonnes 40,016 36,781 9% Maintain focus on best leadership, management and Ore tonnes processed thousands technicalpractices of tonnes 7,706 6,546 18% Continue the enhancement of site security infrastructure Recovery rate percent 86.1% 87.0% 1% andprocesses Build on improvements to health and safety systems Average grade grams per tonne 3.3 3.9 15% andprocesses 1 Attributable gold production Continue the development of training for workforce and ounces 700,934 716,306 -2% localcommunities 1 Attributable gold sold ounces 724,083 683,687 6% Translate strategy into capital allocation, optimise capital allocation and realise key business opportunities Copper production thousands of pounds 7,958 6,788 17% Operationally, 2010 has seen unprecedented levels of activity for ABG.
2 For the first time, all four of our mines were operational for the full year, Cash cost per tonne milled US$ t 55 57 4% although we faced certain challenges in our operating environment Per ounce data US$ Oz that impacted on our overall Group production levels.
Nonetheless, 3 ourGroup production for the year was 700,934 ounces.
Average spot gold price 1,225 972 26% 2 Average realised gold price 1,240 974 27% With respect to our cash costs for the year, we saw a 7% increase over 2009 to US$569 per ounce sold.
The increase was primarily due to lower- 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 569 533 7% than-expected production levels at Buzwagi, increased costs incurred Amortisation and costs per at the mine and industry cost pressures generally.
Cash costs of US$55 2 ounce sold 147 128 15% per tonne milled for the year were slightly lower than the 2009 figure of US$57 per tonne, primarily as a result of the overall incremental increase Total production costs per in tonnes milled from open pit operations.
ounce sold 716 661 8% ABG sold 724,083 gold ounces for the year, up by 6% on 2009 683,687 1 Production and sold ounces reflect equity ounces which exclude 30% of Tulawakas ounces, despite the decrease in our overall production.
was driven by the sale of concentrate ounces on hand at Bulyanhulu and 2 Cash cost per tonne milled, average realised gold price per ounce sold, cash cost per ounce sold, amortisation and other costs per ounce and total production cost per ounce Buzwagi at the end of 2009. are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 54 for definitions.
We mined 40.0 million tonnes of ore and waste for the year, compared to 3 Reflects the London PM fix price.
The increase was driven primarily by the focus on The statistical information above includes non-IFRS measures.
An explanation of Nonwaste-stripping at the Gokona open pit, in order to access high-grade ore IFRS measures is included on page 54.
An explanation of mine statistical information is included on page 168. from 2012. www.
com 34 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information recommissioning the sulphur plant and optimising the flotation plant: Tonnes of ore processed for the year totalled 7.7 million, an 18% increase on 2009 levels 6.5 million tonnes.
The increase was mainly driven by ordering additional pebble ports and back-up generating power for increased throughput at North Mara and at Buzwagi compared to the 2011: and prior period, which only reflected eight months production at Buzwagi.
conducting a full site security review, and implementing additional security measures.
The average grade for the year was 3.3 grams of gold per tonne, 15% lower than the prior year period.
The decrease was due to three key issues: the Overall, we are confident that the measures undertaken in 2010 will processing of low-grade stockpiles at Buzwagi in the third and fourth have a positive long-term impact at Buzwagi.
In addition, our recent quarters: the lower grade of the transitional ore processed overall at announcement of an initial mineral resource at our Golden Ridge project Buzwagi when compared to the oxide material mined during 2009: and underpins our belief and confidence in the potential of this project to the low-grade stockpiles processed throughout the year at Tulawaka.
become a significant satellite operation to the Buzwagi mine in the future.
Our copper production for the year of eight million pounds represents The stability of power supply posed a number of challenges to production a17% increase on 2009, which only reflected eight months of production throughout 2010.
We anticipate sporadic interruptions in power at Buzwagi.
supply throughout 2011 and will continue to monitor this issue and the impact that this may have on our production levels closely throughout Bulyanhulu delivered in line with expectations throughout the year: the forthcoming year.
So far, we have made progress in connecting however, it was deeply regrettable that we suffered three fatalities as a result Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and North Mara to the national grid system of a rock fall in March as well as a further fatality from a non-mining related Tulawaka remains exclusively diesel powered.
Currently, we maintain accident later in the year.
As Greg has noted, it is imperative that we learn back up diesel power generating capacity at Bulyanhulu and North Mara, from these incidents and from the thorough investigations we subsequently in order to mitigate the risks posed by power supply interruptions at carried out to ensure that there is norecurrence.
our largest operations and we expect to install 6MW of backup power at Buzwagi by mid 2011.
From a State perspective, TANESCO continues to North Mara delivered production ahead of budget and at a slightly expand its transmission network and its generating capacity to meet the lower cash cost per ounce sold, when compared to 2009.
In addition, the increasing energy demands of the growing Tanzanian economy.
We have announcement of a high-grade initial underground resource beneath the been, and will continue to be, supportive of this expansion through our planned final Gokona and Nyabigena open pits highlights the potential on-going relationship with TANESCO.
An overview of our relationship for North Mara both to extend its mine life and to add significant ounces with TANESCO is provided on pages 18, 19 and 83. to ABGs production base going forward.
Tulawaka has continued to outperform its original feasibility study for In addition, the recent shortage of rainfall in Tanzania has raised the its underground operation, with an initial extension of its life-of-mine, possibility that there could be a reduction in the availability of electricity through to the second quarter of 2012.
During the year, we also invested generated from hydropower which may impact our operations if, as a in the infrastructure of the operation, particularly its mobile fleet, to result, total electricity supply is insufficient to meet demand.
We will ensure consistency of production and continuing profitability.
continue to monitor this development and the impact that it may have onour operations.
At Buzwagi, a number of challenges impacted production and cash Further details on our initiatives to address power supply and the risks costs at the mine.
In the first part of the year, the layer of transitional that power stoppages, shortages and interruption of utilities supply have ore between the oxide cap and the primary sulphide ore proved to be on our operations have been provided on pages 18, 19, 60, 67 and 68. both slightly deeper than expected and of a higher grind index.
This caused a number of equipment failures in the process plant, which were As discussed at the time of our IPO, the North Mara MDA and mining compounded by a series of unscheduled power outages that negatively licence are due to expire on 7 September 2011.
Applications to renew impacted production.
In addition, during the third quarter we uncovered both of these agreements were submitted in the third quarter of 2010.
We an organised and systematic onsite fuel theft, which had a further expect the renewal of the MDA to be on the same terms as the existing impact on production at the mine.
Investigations indicated that criminal agreements and for the remainder of North Maras life of mine.
fuel theft syndicates had widely infiltrated our mining department.
In response, we suspended approximately 60 employees and a number of Looking forward, we believe that we are well positioned to deliver on the contractors, representing over 40% of mining department personnel.
potential of the Companys asset base as we enter 2011.
This year, our Unfortunately, the reduction in mining capacity further delayed the focus will remain on achieving operational excellence in order to deliver mining of higher-grade ore and the processing of low-grade stockpiles.
stable and profitable production levels.
We implemented a series of measures to address these issues during the year.
These included: strengthening the senior management team with Boyd Timlers appointment as General Manager: bringing forward mining fleet expansion from 2011 to accelerate stage two mining: optimising the drill-and-blast programme in the open pit: Marco Zolezzi, Chief Operating Officer hiring and training replacement mining personnel following the fuel theft: Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
