Chief Executive Officers statement A strong financial performance The last 12 months have marked the beginning of a new chapter for our business.
Today, we have a mandate to build on our substantial asset base and strengthen our position within the gold mining industry.
Greg Hawkins mine during the year.
We must learn from these incidents and from Record operating cash flow the thorough investigations we subsequently carried out to reduce the possibility of any recurrence.
All our financial and operating achievements must be judged in the context of our over-riding corporate goals of ensuring that everyone goes home safe and healthy million US$345 every day and of making a positive contribution to the areas where we operate.
We made substantial progress in these goals in 2010, during which our mines all achieved one million work hours without lost time injuries.
This is highly encouraging, but we are conscious that we must continue to maintain our focus on achieving constant improvement.
The last 12 months have marked the beginning of a vibrant new chapter for our business, for me personally and for many colleagues.
Several Operating and financial performance months of preparations culminated in March with the creation of With the positive performances at Bulyanhulu and North Mara, as ABG and our IPO, turning what was formerly a regional business unit well as the contribution from Tulawaka, we finished the year with of Barrick into a significant independent business.
Today, we have a production of 700,934 ounces of gold at a cash cost of US$569 per mandate to build on our already substantial asset base and strengthen ounce.
With the positive evolution in gold prices over 2010, we are our position within the gold mining industry.
pleased to report a robust operating cash flow of US$345 million, and a year-end net cash position of US$401 million.
We were also Our key focus over this past year has been to ensure that our assets are successful in growing our overall resource base by 3.5% to 26.9 million positioned to generate long-term, consistent operating performance.
ounces, of which 63% are classified as reserves.
However, despite these This has been evident in the achievements at Bulyanhulu and North achievements the issues faced at Buzwagi meant that we did not meet Mara, the mine life extension at Tulawaka and our determined all of our 2010 targets.
As such, resolving the issues at Buzwagi was a approach to overcoming the challenges at Buzwagi.
This marks the top priority for our management team during much of 2010, with the approach ABG will continue to take with the business, to ensure that it objective of ensuring that the mine entered 2011 in a position to deliver can be run consistently and sustainably, to manage business risks and to apply all of our available resources to deal with any challenges.
underpins our strategy of building growth on a solid operating base and This work included a number of senior management changes, including adding value for our shareholders.
the Chief Operating Officer and the General Manager at Buzwagi, as Throughout the year, we have maintained our absolute commitment well as significant additional investment in mining and process plant to operating in a responsible manner in close co-operation with equipment, security infrastructure, personnel hiring and training our host communities and to ensuring that we further embed the following the discovery of systematic fuel thefts at the site, and a culture of health and safety in all our operations and activities.
It is significant tightening of security measures.
We are confident that these deeply regrettable that we suffered four fatalities at our Bulyanhulu initiatives have helped to put the mine back on a more stable footing.
com 10 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Senior leadership team Driving efficiency and growth We implemented a range of plans in 2010 to help drive further Kevin Jennings efficiency and growth in our business, and we will continue to invest CFO inthese in 2011.
We aim to reach one million ounces of production per year by 2014, representing growth of 40% from 2010 levels.
We plan to achieve this while also delivering cost-base efficiencies.
These are fundamental pillars of our focus on creating shareholder value and we aim to deliver them by: optimising our existing assets: Marco Zolezzi expanding through organic growth: and COO growing through acquisitions in Africa.
Optimising our existing assets In order to ensure that our assets remain world class and continue to operate at maximum efficiency levels, we continue to undertake a range of capital investment measures and efficiency programmes.
Against a backdrop of cost pressures in the industry, we believe that these will Deodatus Mwanyika help us to continue to operate at or below the midpoint of the industry Vice President cost curve.
Corporate Affairs In 2010, these activities included a significant upgrade of the ventilation system at Bulyanhulu, fleet expansion at Buzwagi and Tulawaka, and fidebottlenecking at our North Mara process plant to increase throughput.
We also significantly streamlined our procurement and supply chain functions, as well as re-organising our office in Dar es Salaam.
In 2011, Peter Spora Vice President Exploration we have a capital expenditure budget of US$140 million for sustaining and development capital, US$24 million for expansion projects and US$73 million for waste stripping.
Key capital investment projects include the water treatment facility at North Mara, the addition of pebble ports and back-up generating capacity at our Buzwagi process plant, additional underground mining equipment for Tulawaka and continued security investment.
Kobus van Vuuren Head of Human Resources Expanding through organic growth The optimisation projects for all four of our mine sites remain on track to deliver substantial and sustainable additional production within four years and we have made encouraging progress on these projects throughout2010.
At Bulyanhulu, we are continuing to dewater and rehabilitate access to Katrina White the Upper East Zone.
The feasibility study for this project is progressing, General Counsel & and we expect to finalise it during the first half of 2011.
Company Secretary At North Mara, we have been encouraged by the drill results below the Gokona and Nyabigena pits, where we released an initial high-grade resource of 370,000 gold ounces during the fourth quarter of 2010.
We are targeting expanding this to one million ounces through an intensive drill programme in 2011, and the feasibility study for this project is also Andrew Wray on track to be completed during the first half of 2011.
Head of Corporate Development and As announced in our preliminary results, we are extending the life of Investor Relations our Tulawaka mine for the full year 2011 and into the second quarter of 2012.
We will continue our exploration drilling at the site with the aim of further increasing the life of mine.
If successful, we anticipate this will be based solely on the underground operation through the addition of a PG second portal.
We expect to provide an update on this later in the year.
Details of the executives are on page 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Chief Executive Officers statement continued More recently, we were pleased to announce an initial mineral resource Outlook at our Golden Ridge project.
The initial resource consists of an indicated As I have already mentioned, 2010 was a year of significant achievement mineral resource of 527,000 gold ounces with an average grade of 2.94 while we also faced a number of challenges that impacted production grams of gold per tonne and an inferred mineral resource of 152,000 and cash cost targets.
However, with the measures we have taken, with gold ounces with an average grade of 2.52 grams of gold per tonne.
the investments made and with the additional expertise we have added We intend to conduct additional exploration work throughout 2011 at to our team, we ended 2010 strongly and enter 2011 with an impressive Golden Ridge in furtherance of these encouraging results and aim to platform on which to build.
complete the feasibility study for the project by mid 2011.
We are aiming to develop the business further through the following We also made encouraging progress at the greenfield Nyanzaga project key objectives for 2011: in 2010 following completion of our acquisition of Tusker Gold, notably with the discovery of mineralisation closer to surface as well achieving attributable Group production between 700,000 and as increasing grades at depth.
We are stepping up the drill programme 760,000ounces: in 2011, with the aim of initiating a scoping study later in the year.
Elsewhere, the main focus of our generative exploration work was in the maintaining cash cost of between US$590 and US$650 per ounce North Mara area along the Gokona Corridor, with some exciting initial sold, and direct cash operating costs of between US$545 and US$605 results that we will follow up on in 2011. per ouncesold: In recognition of the critical importance of organic growth to our longincreasing Group throughput and recoveries: term ambitions, we are increasing our total exploration budget in 2011 completing feasibility studies at our brownfield projects: to US$55 million, including US$26 million of capitalised expenditure.
This represents a 103% increase on 2010. achieving growth in our overall resource base: In addition to our organic growth plans, acquisitions to expand our improving further on our safety record: and footprint more broadly in Africa remain an important part of our strategy.
We have undeniable strengths in this area, with substantial continuing our focus on opportunities for strategic acquisitions capital flexibility gained through our cash holdings and credit facility, toexpand our footprint throughout Africa.
a management structure that will enable us to acquire and develop businesses in other parts of Africa, and the operational expertise to add Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, value to the assets we acquire.
We analysed a number of targets during enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an extraordinary 2010 and we continue to actively seek out opportunities.
year in the development of our business.
I would also like to thank our Board for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their Strengthening our management team commitment throughout the year.
We have continued to strengthen our management team over the course of the year, employing and promoting individuals with a track record of leadership and the skill set and experience to help take our businessforward.
In September, we announced the appointment of Marco Zolezzi as ourChief Operating Officer.
Marco has significant expertise in running mines and bringing complex, large-scale projects through to full Greg Hawkins, Chief Executive Officer ramp up.
He has been of significant value as we continue to focus on delivering consistent performance at our operating mines and driving forward our organic growth projects.
We also appointed Boyd Timler as General Manager at Buzwagi.
Boyd has 28 years of mining experience and has been instrumental in defining and implementing the action plan used to address issues at the mine in 2010.
Towards the end of the year, we also appointed Basie Maree as General Manager of Tulawaka.
Basie brings substantial experience of the industry, including a number of years with Anglo American, and will lead Tulawaka forward into a new stage of itsdevelopment.
With these and other appointments, I am confident that we now have a management team in place with the necessary experience, energy and enthusiasm to further develop the business and deliver onABGspotential.
