14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE yEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 Geoff Cooper Chief Executive We are also a progressive business.
With an INTRODUCTION unshakable focus on delivering excellent products and service, we were able to achieve all the main ambitions we set ourselves for 2010, in The Group made excellent progress spite of a challenging economic climate, particularly in the building and refurbishment industry.
in 2010 a year in which our organic The Group outperformed its markets by 4% to 6% in 2010, on a likedevelopment strategy, against a for-like basis, in both merchanting and retail.
We had good growth in sales, taking market share and, as a result, grew our profit before tax background of depressed levels of and exceptional items and amortisation by 20%.
We have the systems construction activity, produced a strong and tools in place to continue our organic growth and we enter 2011 with confidence.
financial performance, with further We pursued our acquisition target, BSS, for most of the year, finally market share gains and impressive succeeding in completing the acquisition in December.
We now look forward to working with our new colleagues to grasp the excellent opporincreases in profits.
We also strengthened tunities presented by this transaction.
considerably the Groups strategic position and prospects in the UK through PERFORMANCE the completion of the BSS transaction at All 11 businesses within the Group performed relatively better through the recession than their sector benchmarks.
This was largely due to the the end of the year.
intensive and wide-ranging groundwork we began in 2008 to ensure we were better equipped than our rivals to cope with changes in the market The prevailing culture within the Travis and the economy.
Perkins Group is to allow managers to Throughout this annual report, consistent with our approach last year, the term adjusted has been used to signify that the effects of excepmanage, to anticipate markets and trends tional items and amortisation of intangible assets have been excluded with our customers and to swiftly find from the disclosures being made.
The exceptional operating charge of 19.0m in 2010 relates to costs associated with the Groups acquisition sensible and workable solutions to our of BSS.
In 2009 the exceptional income related to a 32.7m pension customers requirements.
Our highly scheme curtailment gain which arose when future increases in pension scheme members pensionable salaries were capped.
efficient central service functions are For 2010, the Group reported revenue up 222m at 3,153m 2009: there to underpin and support the activity 2,931m.
Whilst the market overall was broadly flat in value, our revenues increased mainly through the self-help initiatives incorporated of our branch and operational managers.
This revenue increase drove adjusted operating profit up 6% to 239m 2009: 225m, adjusted profit before tax This approach has served us well during up 20% to almost 217m 2009: 180m, and adjusted earnings per the past 12 months.
The revenue increase of 7.6% comprised an increase of 5.0% in like-for-like LFL sales, with We are a quality business consisting of network expansion accounting for growth of 2.6%.
Excluding BSS, where we consolidate the last two weeks trading over the Christmas shutdown, adjusted group operating margin rose by 0.1% to 7.8% 2009: 7.7%.
This reflects our strategy of investing in 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 15.
NO ONE IS BETTER PLACED TO KNOW WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE DOING AND WHAT THEy NEED TO CARRy OUT THEIR WORK THAN OUR BRANCH AND OPERATIONAL MANAGERS improvements to our customer propositions.
Whilst adjusted operating outset of the recession: margin in the retail division improved by 0.1% to 5.9% 2009: 5.8%, Begin a programme of investing in growing our business as markets merchanting division adjusted operating margin remained at 8.8%.
began to stabilise: Including the effect of the BSS acquisition, adjusted operating margin Identify swiftly the opportunity and benefits of acquiring BSS.
including BSS post acquisition loss of 2.6m fell by 0.1% to 7.6% We combine systems and processes, which track a range of lead indinote 5c.
cators, with our managers instinct and close knowledge of customers After including exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets views.
As a result of those relationships, we know what drives our market in both years, the Group recorded a decrease of 7% in PBT to 196.8m and we know how to adapt and respond to changing market conditions.
2009: 212.7m and a decrease of 21% in earnings per share to 69.6 pence 2009: 88.4 pence.
MARKETS AND OUR RESPONSE The Group generated free cash flow of 277.8m in 2010 2009: 294.4m, a 5.6% decrease year-on-year.
Overall, including the We predicted, in merchanting, a gradual recovery in 2010 from the sharp cash outflow relating to the acquisition of BSS of 476.9m, net debt contraction of activity, caused by the recession, which started towards increased to 773.6m 2009: 467.2m.
For covenant purposes net the end of 2008.
In contrast, we expected a contraction in retail markets debt was 701.4m 2009: 413.1m, giving a net debt EBITDA ratio of in 2010 following the fading of the artificial support consumers received 1.92 times 2009: 1.47 times and interest cover of 18.9 times 2009: from a fall in housing costs in 2009.
We were broadly correct, with the 10.7 times.
aggregate value of these two segments of the market being broadly flat Including the effect of our 624m acquisition of BSS Group, sharedespite continued relatively high product cost and price inflation.
Our tracking of lead indicators told us that construction activity levels The Group has started the year well with LFL sales in January up 22% were improving at the end of 2009 and the beginning of 2010.
When in merchanting, 8% up in BSS and 12% in Retail on a delivered basis the UK went into the recession at the end of 2008, builders were doing Wickes core up 12%, kitchen and bathroom K&B up 15%, reflecting more and more second fix internal work, but less and less heavy-duty the weak comparatives from the snow affected January 2010.
The first 3 foundation, and block and brick building work.
In effect, the builders were weeks of February have also traded well with a 10% increase in LFL sales completing projects that were already underway.
This changed towards in merchanting, 5% in BSS, and a 2% increase in Retail on a delivered the end of 2009 when a slow recovery in mortgage activity encourbasis Wickes core up 3%, K&B down 2%.
aged more housing related building works, including the opening up of In January, Wickes K&B orders were down 3% and in February many new housing sites.
Whilst this directly boosted the merchanting they were down 36%.
This reflects a combination of pre-VAT increase market, the retail market had a tough time as inflation bit into consumers advanced ordering in late 2010, rather than early 2011, and recent purchasing power.
In this weak K&B market our K&B gross margins We responded to this turn in the market by re-starting many of the are ahead of 2009. improvement programmes that drive our organic growth strategy.
The main These strong performance ratios are directly related to our managers programmes boosted at the beginning of 2010 cover product availability, expertise and experience.
Our direction is heavily influenced by our ranging, delivery services, multi channel trading and account manageoperating managers who tell us what is really going on in the market.
Behind these programmes significant support is provided by our No one is better placed to know what our customers are doing and central technology, supply chain, procurement and marketing functions.
what they need to carry out their work than our branch and operational Successful deployment of these programmes meant we were able to managers.
Gathering intelligence from customers is the only way we can outperform in both merchanting and retailing sectors by anticipating what really know what is happening at ground level.
Thanks to our regular was likely to confront us and be sufficiently flexible in our working operacustomer surveys and the experience and knowledge of our managers, tions to manage fluctuations in the market.
our antennae are highly developed.
So what is behind this quality of flexibility that we have?
It is because As a result, the Group was able to identify key turns in the course of of the culture of our managers and the way we organise ourselves.
We the economic cycle, and as a consequence: try to give our managing directors, boards and branch managers as much Take quick action to reduce costs as construction activity fell at the autonomy as possible.
In effect, we leave our businesses and branches 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 16 Robert Newton, Branch Manager Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant Kevin Hancock, Driver with the freedom to trade in the best way they deem appropriate.
They decide on the hiring of staff, on remuneration, on the products they stock, and the pricing of products.
Our key colleagues in branches have dayto-day working relationships with all their customers, from householders and sole traders to major construction businesses, and they can determine how to manage those customers and on what terms.
Those decisions are not set in stone from a head office policy-maker.
Each individual business board and branch manager has the freedom to work within a sensible business plan, aimed at delivering performance on a broad range of financial and service metrics.
The central functions are made to report to the business, rather than the other way round.
If the managing director of a business has identified a significant issue or a potential problem, he or she has the ability to contact a senior director at head office and demand an immediate response.
It is our culture of getting on and doing things that makes all our businesses flexible and quick to respond.
Every day we see many examples of our people getting on with fixing things, solving problems on behalf of our customers and suppliers and improving our businesses.
MERCHANTING DIVISION The four businesses that operate under the Travis Perkins brand all performed strongly during 2010.
Joe Mescall, Chairman of the general merchanting division, a superb merchant who has been with the Group since 1974, and his four managing directors and their boards, have all MErchanting productivity had an outstanding year.
pEr EMployEE k Merchanting division sales increased by 8.0%, with sales from new branch openings contributing 0.7%, and LFL sales improving 7.3%.
The 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 LFL increase comprised 3.6% of price inflation and 3.7% increase in volumes.
We estimate that both our general and specialist merchanting 200 operations recorded a performance of around 4% ahead of the market, with LFL sales in general merchanting increasing by 6.7% and specialist merchanting increasing by 8.5%.
These performances were achieved by improvements in our overall service to builders, including better product availability to ensure that 100 constructors and builders had sufficient stock to complete entire projects.
A great deal of effort has been concentrated on being able to supply products in the right quantity and at the right price.
Our regular customer research indicates that over the year we have consolidated our reputation for being the merchant who can supply what customers need, when they 206 220 216 215 228 need it.
Because of our growing international sourcing expertise, we can 0 increasingly supply both unique and routine products at more competitive 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 17 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH The general merchanting business produced strong like-for-like sales The general merchanting business produced strong like-for-like sales growth and increased market share, whilst eight new branches were opened in 2010 Robert Steward, Yard Sales Assistant Left: Robert Newton, Branch Manager.
Right: Eliot Linzey-Jones, Senior Sales Assistant Paul Dancer, Tool Hire Manager 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 18 Kelli Pennells, Branch Assistant Matt Hastings, Sales Assistant Lisa Massey, Assistant Branch Manager prices than our rivals.
This aspect of our work relies on the vital support of Having completed the first two phases in growing the business, namely our buying and supply chain teams, working in tandem.
its launch and then its refinement, Chris took over in the third phase to As activity levels began to increase, the Travis Perkins branches were drive profits.
This involved looking at fresh opportunities to attract new there to support customers and we saw strong sales growth and an customers to Benchmarx.
Chris did an excellent job, performing beyond increase in operating profits.
In general terms, when you ask a builder our expectations, motivating his team and strengthening the engagement why they go to a particular supplier, they give a dozen or so reasons for of management.
Chris also created and led a new initiative to install their choice.
Travis Perkins likes to be the number one choice in seven or Benchmarx implants in other group trading brands offering good crosseight of those decision-making criteria.
This has been successful, and will be pursued in Arthur Davidson, another great merchant with many years experience, 2011.
Sales growth has been very strong, outstripping the market leader chairs our specialist division.
He and his team produced a superb perforby some considerable distance.
Our budgets suggested that the business mance from their four businesses whilst strengthening their strategic would make a small loss in its third year: Benchmarx has reached profitposition with significant development activity ability ahead of schedule.
Keyline CCF Our heavy building materials and civils and drainage specialist experiOur specialist distributor of building materials for interiors contractors enced the toughest year of all 11 of our businesses as a result of the had another excellent year, led by Kieran Griffin, its recently appointed obvious squeeze in the new construction market.
Our customers needed managing director.
Kieran spearheaded efforts to further widen CCFs to repair a house, but they didnt have to build a new property.
But in line product range under its one stop shop concept.
This, together with a with our Group ethos, Keyline responded imaginatively and instantly with range of other operational initiatives, enabled CCF to significantly outpera boost to its customer service under the banner Best In Town.
Even form the market in like-for-like sales growth and increase operating profits.
though the market was undeniably challenging, Keyline, under the direction of Managing Director Andrew Harrison, led the market by supplying RETAIL the best range of products to satisfy demand from customers.
This initiative enabled Keyline to convince customers that they were first choice for All retail markets were tough in 2010, with non-food, particularly our own civils products, with Keyline recording like-for-like sales growth ahead of segment of DIY, badly affected by falling consumer confidence.
Against the general merchanting division, and a healthy increase in profits.
this backdrop our retail division outperformed its market by around 6%, with further improvements to our customer proposition, particularly in our City Plumbing multi-channel operations, where our superior technologies and fulfilment Our acquisition of BSS after a protracted nine-month process overshadoperations have helped us make significant gains in revenues.
We are owed the activity of City Plumbing, since the two businesses compete pleased that, with increasing use of retail channels by tradesmen, our in the same market.
However, we were delighted by the teams ability market share gains have been greatest in that segment of the market.
to maintain their enthusiasm and focus throughout.
The result is that Retail division total sales were up by 2.3% to 1,003m 2009: Managing Director John Frost and his team completed an impressive year, 981m, with sales from new branch openings contributing 2.1%.
A improving their sales, outgrowing their market and increasing profits.
In 3.3% sales increase arising from price inflation was offset by a 3.1% fact, CPS recorded the highest like-for-like sales growth of any of our volume decrease resulting in a LFL sales increase of 0.2%.
Within the mature merchant businesses.
That was a considerable achievement under retail divisions overall LFL performance, LFL sales for the full year of the circumstances.
The team put together a progressive and exciting Wickes core products were down by 2.0%, and on the same basis K&B initiative to focus on what plumbers really require under the banner What sales were ahead by 9.5%.
This ethos swept through the whole operation.
Wickes Benchmarx We continued to develop the Wickes nationwide comprehensive televiOur specialist kitchen and joinery business which sells to the trade, under sion advertising campaign.
Wickes: Its Got Our Name On It was introthe guidance of Managing Director Chris Larkin, is only four years old.
duced at the end of 2008 and has continued to establish huge brand 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 19 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH CCF widened its product range under its one stop shop concept Mark Smith, Warehouse Assistant Chris Williams, Warehouse Assistant 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 20 Mark Davis, Branch Manager recognition and awareness.
Managing Director, Jeremy Bird, and his team, have seen a considerable uplift in Wickes sales and market share as a result.
We were initially reluctant to embark on this campaign since Wickes is not represented in every town and city in the UK.
However, the advertisements were impactful from the start.
The early concentration was on kitchens and bathrooms, before moving to a broader range of general DIY products.
The advertising campaign was accompanied by improvements to ranges, pricing and delivery options, and complemented by an increasrEtail productivity ingly powerful multi-channel approach.
As a result, Wickes achieved likepEr EMployEE k for-like sales growth and improved operating profits in a falling market a remarkable performance, and a tribute to the attractiveness of Wickes 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 as a no-nonsense home improvement retailer.
200 Tile Giant Mo Iqbal started the business and continues to drive it forward with great passion and effort.
Travis Perkins acquired the company in late 2007 when it had 29 stores, mainly in the Midlands.
There are now 101, and Tile Giant is a serious challenger in the market.
The main focus has been 100 to develop an outstanding product range.
Initially, Tile Giant concentrated on ceramics, but following the acquisition of two other businesses that specialised in other segments of the market, its product offering has been strengthened significantly.
The result is Tile Giant offers its growing number of customers a wide range of excellent products at great prices, 189 197 186 198 186 all under one roof.
This has driven a positive and market-leading like-for- 0 like sales performance in 2010.
BRANCH MANAGERS ARE HIGHLy MOTIVATED INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE KEEN TO PERFORM AT THEIR OPTIMUM LEVEL ToolStation and IT.
We aim to provide an update at the interim stage this year on our It was another outstanding year for ToolStation, driven by the entrepreprogress towards achieving these synergies.
When the Group acquired a 30% stake in the business in April 2008, ToolStation had 12 stores, but as a result MANAGEMENT of the concept being rolled out so effectively, there are now 84.
Based on its world-class in-house developed technology, it continues to be Because of our scale and our focus on supplying what our customers a low-cost business that delivers outstanding product availability and want, we have consistently achieved the highest return on sales amongst value to its customers.
The Groups pre-recession operating margin was typically more than half as much again when compared to our national competitors.
In the more recent tougher economic climate, whilst our operating INVESTORS margin has come down by about a quarter, our peers have suffered Throughout the course of the recession, the Group has been strongly proportionately larger falls.
The decision to bring stability to our balance sheet We put a great deal of this difference down to the attitude of our with the rights issue in May 2009 has been of great benefit to the Group.
As I discussed earlier, they are highly skilled at anticipating Investors taking up their rights will have seen an excellent return for their problems and finding sensible and swift solutions.
They are on top of support to the Company.
We meet our investors at least twice a year and their business, so that they respond to tough times by closely managing we continue to benefit from their support.
gross margin and reducing costs.
The disaggregated culture of decision Our banks and US note holders continue to be similarly very supportive making and the prevailing ethos of running our business has taken many of the Group.
When there was a great deal of uncertainty in the economy years to establish.
and in the construction industry in particular, we informed investors and Our positive management environment makes for a more rewarding bankers what we thought would happen and what we could do to counter place to work.
Following the actions we took to slim down our top the conditions.
We performed ahead of our targets and retained confimanagement resources at the start of the recession, we have not seen dence in our ability to run our businesses robustly and effectively.
many departures from our director group of 202 people since then.
Every single branch in the Group is subject to a detailed review of its performance, analysing sales contributions from all of them.
Branch ACqUISITION OF BSS managers are highly motivated individuals who are keen to perform at We approached the BSS opportunity with great confidence because we their optimum level.
We reward our staff well and they are incentivised believed BSS was strategically strong and financially very attractive.
Although we had a considerable amount of plumbing business through our various brands, we were in the second tier of national companies TRAVIS PERKINS IN THE COMMUNITy operating in the market.
By acquiring BSS and combining our activities, the Group has been promoted to a leading position in the market, making Characteristic of how the Group operates, driven from the ground us a powerful force in serving customers and helping suppliers meet their upwards, we continue to move forward our 1000 projects community own strategies.
The Groups published target for synergies arising from the BSS Every branch is encouraged to establish a community project, inspired acquisition is 25m, which comprises 19m in respect of goods for by a personal contact, completed in their spare time and using our own resale and 6m of overhead savings.
We remain confident of achieving materials.
Its not mandatory, but the response rate has been exceptionthese targets.
The projects create a tremendous sense of team-work and The integration programme has commenced, but it is too early to goodwill.
The initiative was launched when we reached the milestone of provide any further meaningful insight about the synergies available to 1,000 branches.
With the inclusion of BSS, we now operate from over the Group.
However, it is clear that achieving the target will require a 1,800 branches, and we are reviewing what the next version of this substantial effort from teams across the business and in particular the programme looks like.
allocation of considerable resource to, and investment in, supply chain I believe the work in our 1,000 projects initiative contributes greatly 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 22 to improving engagement of staff.
In a vast majority of cases, employees 70% of employees donate through the Lottery, with over 60,000 raised want to be recognised for what they do and many like being part of a for the partner charities in 2010. winning and harmonious team.
The 1,000 projects works were innovative and helped us to do things that move beyond clichs about business STRATEGy in the community.
The Board of Directors was also encouraged to take part in a commuWe are determinedly pursuing our vision of ensuring that anyone in nity project.
Last year, board members spent a day at Battersea Park in the UK who wants to be supplied with materials to construct, repair or London digging and creating a community garden.
improve the built environment will have a Travis Perkins business as their The Groups charitable donations were in the region of 200,000 five first choice.
Our strategy to achieve this is relatively simple: years ago.
Last year we together with our colleagues, customers and Through a low risk programme of continuous improvement, have the suppliers, contributed 1.7m.
best offer to customers in each market: and Our charity fundraising activity continues to play a key role in engaging By applying our business model of disciplined margin management, our colleagues across the Group, enabling colleagues to take time to tight cost control, clear focus on capital returns and a strong alignment support charitable causes that are close to their hearts.
Our individual of accountability and incentives, have the highest operating margin in businesses selected their own charitable causes in 2010, after the Group each sector.
devolved its centrally-managed fundraising model to better fit with our This approach has produced sector-leading performances in revenue decentralised business model.
We now partner with 11 UK based charities.
growth and returns, and has enabled us to grow our asset base to Each Managing Director leads fundraising for his own business, achieve powerful positions in each sector of our market.
assisted by a charity committee of employee representatives.
Team Over the last four years we have seen three clear turning points in building and charity fundraising activities are combined powerfully.
the course of the recession in construction markets a sharp downturn, Strong colleague engagement has led to more than 1.7m being raised a return to stability in activity at low levels, and a gradual but choppy in 2010, an uplift of more than double the 2009 total despite the recovery, which still has a long way to go.
At each turn we decisively recession.
adapted our stance to trading, investment and cash.
We took costs out Fundraising has been particularly visual in our Travis Perkins brand, rapidly and decisively at the downturn, put more investment back in as which adopted the Breast Cancer Campaign and Childrens Hospices UK the market stabilised, and, of course, committed to a major acquisition as charities on a two-year partnership and in our Wickes brand which raised growth returned last year.
These actions mean we are now positioned with nearly 655,000 for its adopted charity Leukaemia and Lymphoma a larger footprint in the sector, a leading position in plumbing and heating Research.
The Travis Perkins business re-sprayed 12 of its delivery to add to our longstanding leading position in heavyside and timber, and vehicles pink, sourced and sold pink products in its branches, and with our branch network intact having seen closures elsewhere.
even changed its name to Travis Pinkins for a national day of fundWe are now poised to use our management resources to exploit this raising.
Keylines partnership with The Prostate Cancer Charity has been position and achieve further growth in returns to shareholders.
beneficial to the charity in terms of fundraising, and substantially raised As I have noted, the course of the recovery is likely to be choppy and public awareness of prostate cancer in the male-dominated building and conditions for the next 12 months remain challenging.
Other beneficiaries of charity partnerships with Travis able gloom in the wider economy, but we dont subscribe to the doublePerkins businesses include Clic Sargent, Childline, Whizz-Kidz, and the dip theory.
The construction market fell by over 30% in 2008 09 and Warwickshire and Northamptonshire Air Ambulance.
although activity has picked up a little, on a longer term perspective, More than 225,000 was donated through the companys Payroll activity levels remain low.
All of the partner charities benefited from a share The Groups organic growth strategy is based on a combination of selfof the donations, together with other charitable causes personally chosen help initiatives and external expansion.
In particular, the Group will extend by employees.
Much of this was raised through a popular and fully its direct sourcing operations in the Far East and enhance its supply chain licensed Colleague Lottery.
Colleagues donate 1 per month from their whilst at the same time investing in the IT resource necessary to support salary, with up to 50% going to the charity of their business.
More than those and many other activities.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 23 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH Keylines Best in Town programme delivered improved performance Left: Andy Marr, Branch Manager.
Right: Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant Keith Ward, Driver Scott Richardson, Sales Assistant 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 24 Dale White, Forklift Driver Rhianon Rickard, Senior Cashier We will continue to pursue this organic strategy, which is delivering increasing market share and sales performance whilst we monitor very closely both our performance and market conditions to keep ahead of our competitors.
We will retain our policy of continuous improvement of our businesses, taking many small steps in a large number of areas of our business.
This process of continual improvement is supported by many new initiatives that will be implemented during the course of the year.
Our acquisition of BSS was the stand out event at Travis Perkins last year.
Our commercial analysis indicated we would be acquiring a strong company with quality people and that the prospects for the business are excellent and exciting.
This has proven to be the case.
We are realistic about market prospects, but are positive about the future because we have the strategy, market position, execution skills and scale to respond quickly to market changes and to deliver outstanding service to our customers.
Our three main targets for 2011 to create value are to: continue the Groups strategy of organic growth.
We have more initiatives in gestation to bring to market: use our strong cash generation to pay down debt, maintain investment in continuous improvement, selectively continue network expansion and increase dividends: integrate BSS and get the best out of the acquisition.
We have proved we can generate superior returns from businesses in our sector, and will work hard to apply those skills to the BSS businesses.
We look forward to another year of good progress.
Geoff Cooper Chief Executive 22 February 2011 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF E XE C U TIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR 25 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH Wickes achieved significant additional sales Wickes achieved significant additional sales, thanks to its next day delivery service, six days per week, its stand-alone kitchen and bathroom stores and its new paint range Leanne Pointon, Customer Assistant 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11
