26 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS REVIEW OF THE yEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 John Carter Chief Operating Officer INTRODUCTION OUTPERFORMANCE FROM RESULTS-DRIVEN PEOPLE I have no hesitation in repeating our driving vision that the Travis Perkins Group is a great place to work and a great place for our customers and The Groups strength is based on the suppliers to do business.
commitment, dedication and motivation of We place staff engagement and fulfilment at the very heart of what we set out to achieve.
I firmly believe in the mantra that happy, wellan outstanding team of people who work motivated people are more productive.
Our overarching vision is to create towards a common goal.
There are 22,500 an environment that gets the best from all colleagues, and that is a great and safe place to work.
of us, and we are excited going into 2011 Our business priorities drive our people initiatives.
During 2010, about the prospects of sharing best this was clearly illustrated by our pioneering approach to flexible practice between our existing businesses working in the merchanting sector.
The economic downturn gave us the impetus to review and improve the flexibility of our branch teams and the 5,000 BSS colleagues who have in our merchanting business.
We studied our customer flow rates and recently joined us.
instigated a process to ensure that we were operating our branches more appropriately.
The objective of improving sales, customer service and operating standards by ensuring the right people were at the right Last year was tough, but our competitors place at the right time has been a challenge, but a very worthwhile one.
We It will enhance our productivity and will contribute to attracting and continued to grow our 11 merchanting retaining our people.
Our people initiatives gained real momentum last year and have and retail businesses thanks to our proven opened a new world of improved flexibility in employment models and and detailed systems of operation and working patterns to reflect our early morning peak hours in the trade sector.
Wickes has been operating this system for many years and we we are equipped to respond rapidly to will now embrace this flexibility throughout the Group where appropriate.
We gained from an initial increase in house-building in early 2010 and even IMPORTANCE OF AN IMPROVING SAFETy RECORD when that activity levelled off, we were Our Stay Safe culture is central to the entire management teams approach.
By the very nature of our business, there is considerable able to cope with changing conditions.
As movement of heavy machinery and transport on a daily basis in our warea result, all of our businesses reported houses, depots and operational sites.
In a determined effort to protect our people, we have continued to concentrate on our Keep Your Feet on the excellent results under challenging Ground programme to avoid accidents.
Over 2,500 drivers were trained circumstances.
last year in our on-going effort to meet the spirit, as well as the letter, of the current safety legislation.
BUILDING ENGAGEMENT AMONG OUR COLLEAGUES In 2010 we employed a bespoke independent research company to carry out our detailed staff survey, which indicated very satisfactory levels of colleague engagement.
The results showed that a majority of our people 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 27.
THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN GAVE US THE IMPETUS TO REVIEW AND IMPROVE THE FLEXIBILITy OF OUR BRANCH TEAMS IN OUR MERCHANTING BUSINESS wanted the Group to: three main strands of activity: to be a specialist kitchens and bathrooms Reward staff appropriately: distributor, to be more focussed on the trade element of DIY i. e. the small Communicate effectively: trader and to become a multi-channel business by adopting an approach Help develop their careers.
of anything, anywhere, anytime with three routes to market via stores, We believe that engaged colleagues are more likely to drive customer telephone sales or online.
This gives our customers the option to access service delivery and, in turn, to create sustainable and profitable growth.
our goods in a variety of ways.
Our survey, called You Talk, We Listen, produced a significant 25% improvement in engagement scores across all respondents.
Over 70% of SUPPLy CHAIN GAINS & GLOBAL SOURCING our people took the time to complete the questionnaire.
The survey found that 82% of colleagues are proud to work in their The essence of the Groups supply chain is to have the right products particular branch or department and 70% were proud to be part of the in the right place at the right time.
Through detailed research and Company.
This harmony has undoubtedly led to all 11 of our businesses consultation with customers, we have developed a core range of goods, outperforming the sector in which they operate.
This comprises about 1,500 products or Unlike 2009 when we had to reduce the workforce, last year we mainStock Keeping Units that MUST be stocked in sufficient quantity for a tained our staffing level in a carefully controlled way.
customer to complete an entire project purchase, rather than a single There are many stars in the Group.
There are far too many to mention unit being classed as meeting a customers needs.
As a result, our availthem all here, but I would like to recognise the work by individuals who ability targets are more challenging to meet, however, as we improve our have led the achievements of our many teams: our category management performance the sales rewards are much greater.
We started extending director Norman Bell, supply chain director Robin Proctor, global sourcing this programme in September 2010 and will increase its coverage from director Ian Preedy and the Groups human resources director Carol 50% of our sales to 75% of sales our expected maximum during 2011.
Kavanagh, plus our divisional chairmen Joe Mescall, Arthur Davidson and We have significantly improved the utilisation of our 2,000 commercial Jeremy Bird.
vehicles through GPS tracking, which has helped reduce our vehicle CO 2 Many of those individuals have very many years of loyal service and we emissions by 812 tonnes.
The addition of a 500,000 sqft warehouse to have benefited from the dedication of a stable and robust merchanting the distribution network and the opening of a heavyside regional distriteam and a fusion of new blood and new skills from the senior figures in bution hub have greatly improved our efficiency in moving goods to the our retail businesses.
right locations at the right times.
The Group thrives on the selection, recruitment and induction of its Another critical innovation has been the introduction of a new daily IT people.
During challenging times, we have used our training and developalert.
All of our branch managers receive a daily communication informing ment resources to keep our people motivated and engaged.
them of product quantity and availability in their branch.
In addition, It is critical to my role that I walk the branches and the warehouses.
I the senior managers of our suppliers are also notified of their product am continually proud and encouraged by the commitment shown in all availability.
This tells our suppliers about their missed opportunities for areas of our businesses.
potential sales throughout our branches.
We set tough targets, but it has proved to be a highly-effective self-managing process.
Our sourcing is a truly global activity.
Sixty countries manufacture INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT & PRODUCT goods for the Group, covering every continent, except Antarctica.
AVAILABILITy DISCIPLINES We buy a significant quantity of product direct from between 15 and The working environment across the Group is results-orientated.
Last 20 countries, including ceramics and plywood from Brazil, timber from year we continued to drive our self-help programme.
On the merchanting Scandinavia, pottery from Morocco and stone and variety of other goods side, we identified up to a dozen work streams where we could make a from India.
Increasingly we deal directly with the manufacturers, rather significant difference, delivering goods quickly, speeding up our service than engaging specialist intermediaries.
Often we take responsibility for and ensuring we stocked sufficient quantities of product to suit our the product once it comes off the production line and have a team of customers demand.
people who are in charge of quality control at the manufacturing source.
On the retail side, and with Wickes in particular, we focussed on In these cases we are totally in control of packing and distributing the 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 28 Wayne Meads, Manager goods from the 14 factories who supply us back to our own distribution hubs in the UK.
Our sourcing activity has had a positive effect on our margins.
It has also been a great learning curve, dramatically changing the way we operate and requiring many administrative departments within the Group to adapt their systems accordingly.
We have opened a consolidation centre in Shanghai, which has greatly improved our trading in China.
The Group buys products from 85 manufacturers in China, but often in insufficient quantities to fill a container for immediate transport back to the UK.
However, the new centre enables us to store goods safely and securely until the time there is sufficient stock gEographical SalES to fill a freight container.
% of total 2010 sales We want to buy the best possible products at the best possible price, but we are not prepared to compromise our standards by dealing with 27% 19% unethical companies.
We do not trade with suppliers who fail to meet our strict standards in staff welfare, health and safety and care for the 24% 19% 27% 41% environment.
We are proud to set the standard for our sector.
16% 27% BSS INTEGRATION MERCHANTING RETAIL I lead the integration team for BSS.
A detailed integration plan was develNORTH MIDLANDS oped during the drawn-out negotiation with the OFT last year.
A fourphase plan was initiated on December 14 2010: SOUTH EAST SOUTH WEST Phase 1: Communication.
In the first few days we had meetings with as many BSS personnel as possible to brief them on our plans and to welcome them to the Travis Perkins Group: Phase 2: Definition.
This involved understanding and prioritising the nuMBEr oF BranchES key projects particularly the early synergy-bearing opportunities: 2000 Phase 3: Synergies and overheads our current activity: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Phase 4: Long-term structural projects, such as IT and harmonising supply chains.
MERCHANTING 1000 All four Travis Perkins branded businesses produced strong like-for-like sales growth and increased market share, while trading margin was maintained and good profit growth was achieved.
Eight new branches were opened and key sales projects were successfully undertaken to increase the number of accounts opened.
Product availability continued to increase and strong productivity growth was achieved, together with enhanced multi-skill training for 1,022 1,125 1,223 1,238 1,728 0 branch colleagues.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 29 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH Tile Giant opened 15 new branches in 2010 Jim Smith, Assistant Manager 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 30 Sophie Buchanan, Assistant Branch Manager City Plumbing Supplies ToolStation Thanks to improved sourcing, City Plumbing improved its gross margin Turnover increased by 70% to 70m with an increase in its customer and showed a strong growth in profits.
The business achieved a consisbase of 479,000.
There are now 84 stores, serving 85,000 customers tently high sales performance and its own label, iflo, performed well.
CCF Tile Giant The business extended its flooring range and, with the help of improved There were 15 new branch openings last year, taking the total number to supply chain initiatives, CCF enjoyed strong growth.
Market share has grown to over 4% of the UK tile market.
THE yEAR AHEAD Keyline The Best in Town programme delivered improved performance, with 2011 will again be a difficult year, but we have invested a great deal of strong growth in the civils and drainage sector in the second half of time in developing operational systems that enable us to compete in the the year.
Trading margins were maintained and good profit growth was marketplace better than our rivals.
We have innovative and exciting projachieved.
ects and work streams ready to roll out this year and we feel confident about being able to outgrow our competitors by being better.
Benchmarx We have the best teams in the sector.
It will be a year for integrating Twenty-one new businesses were opened on existing group sites and BSS, achieving synergies and giving our businesses the support they need.
The company achieved very strong like-for-like sales growth.
RETAIL Wickes Wickes achieved significant additional sales, thanks to its next-day delivery John Carter service six days per week, its stand-alone kitchen and bathroom stores Chief Operating Officer and a new paint range.
There continues to be considerable investment in 22 February 2011 the online and catalogue side of the business.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 CHIEF OPERATING OFFI CERS REVIEW OF THE YEAR 31 F OC US ON O RGA NI C GROWTH Benchmarx opened 21 new businesses on existing group sites Matthew Carberry, Kitchen Designer 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 Name Surname Title
