10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview | Chief Executives interview An interview with Chief Executive, Peter Long This year has been a difficult one for TUI We continue to see smaller tour operators and Travel.
airlines across Europe going out of business.
What does that say about the quality of the tour operating industry?
We started the year off well in terms of trading despite the fact that there was some bad weather in January which disrupted our programme.
I think firstly it says that there has been weakness That was nothing compared to what we then had of demand and the smaller companies suffer more.
to deal with during April when we had the closure Invariably the smaller companies that have failed of airspace and all of our 143 aeroplanes were have not had appropriate capital structures and, grounded for over a week.
Circa 400,000 guests as a consequence, I think we will now be a major were affected either by cancellations or having beneficiary as customers migrate away from the to be repatriated from their holidays.
This was smaller companies to those larger international a huge level of disruption but I think what we organisations which are well financed, have been demonstrated as an organisation was our absolute trading for decades and have very strong professionalism to repatriate all our customers reputations.
I believe, therefore, that we can whilst causing them the minimum amount of capitalise on this and there is an important disruption.
Our customers were extremely grateful message that we give to our customers when you and had high regard for the professionalism of our book with us you have peace of mind.
We have the staff within our Company.
experience, we have the depth of management, the choice of holidays and most importantly, we have After the General Election we had further closure the financial strength to ensure that we will deliver of airspace and that really did start to spook our you a great holiday.
customers because they were unsure as to whether they could be stranded when they were on holiday.
This clearly had a negative effect and a number You launched TUI Russia & CIS this year.
of our customers took the decision to delay their How is that area of the business performing?
bookings and that had a very adverse impact on our business.
Were very excited by the opportunity within I think we then went on to have the perfect Russia.
There is a huge emerging middle class who storm because of ash, the General Election, the like to travel and they like to go to sun and beach emergency budget and the World Cup all these destinations.
Obviously being geographically elements caused disruption in terms of our located in the Northern hemisphere where the customers normal booking patterns.
After the weather, particularly in the Winter, is severe, it plays World Cup we saw a resumption in terms of very much to our strengths in terms of selling and demand and, as we went through the high season, delivering sun and beach holidays to large volumes we had very strong sales which I think confirmed of customers in a very efficient way.
We have the importance customers place on their main partnered with a Russian partner we think this is summer holiday and that its a must-have, but very important as we get to know and understand when they book depends on the circumstances the different culture that we operate in and were prevailing at the time.
We were unable to recover very happy in terms of the partnership that we have.
the impact of this perfect storm during the months We launched the TUI brand, bringing TUI as a of May, June and particularly in early July.
consumer brand to Russia in March and that has As we went through our audit process we also been very well received within the Russian market.
uncovered some control issues within the Group in So we are excited by the opportunities but we are our UK business.
We found that our tour operating also realists and know that this is a market that is and retail systems were not being properly going to have very strong growth characteristics reconciled and that there was an overstatement of but it will be some time before we see the revenue.
This has now been fully investigated and profitability that we enjoy within the European controls have been put in place to ensure that this markets.
Our investment to date has been modest will not reoccur again.
We have also undertaken a so the risk profile is right but were there, we have full review of financial controls across the Group the platform and the Russian market could grow to and I am satisfied that this event has not occurred be one of our biggest markets within our Group.
in any other part of our business.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 View the CEOs interview online Watch the CEOs interview online at http: ara2010.
com You have changed the structure of the Group and First Choice, and that is where the bulk of the from 1 October 2010.
Why have you synergies have come from.
In terms of growth done that?
opportunities, there are a number of areas, firstly continuing to improve the underperforming Weve modified the structure.
Weve got our three businesses such as Corsair.
I am delighted that regional geographies for our mainstream business we have now agreed a new social plan with all our no change at all.
Ive taken the Specialist and colleagues at Corsair to create a viable business Activity Sectors and merged them into one.
going forward and we will implement that The other part of the specialist business was restructuring over the next 24 months.
Emerging Markets and that is now a Sector in We are also looking at further improvements within its own right because we want to be focusing on our German and UK businesses, particularly in the the opportunities in Russia which I have already area of new systems which will improve the alluded to but were also looking at the other efficiency of our business.
The other key aspect BRIC economies of India, China and Brazil.
of our business is having more unique holiday Our Accommodation & Destinations Sector experiences, those differentiated holidays.
continue to introduce more concept hotels that will enable us to increase the number of customers going on holiday with us within our mainstream Are you worried about the low-cost carriers businesses.
Equally, we also have good growth becoming tour operators and how will you opportunities across all our specialist businesses counter the threat of the online travel where there is now a growing demand for different agents OTAs ?
types of holidays, the non-sun and beach.
That might be a sailing holiday, a walking holiday or a We continue to look at all our competition.
One of Polar expedition cruise.
Customers are looking to the greatest strengths that we have as an do different things and we have this very broad organisation is the fact a large proportion of the portfolio of unique specialist holidays within holidays we offer are unique experiences that our the Group.
customers can only book with us and that gives us a platform to set us aside from the rest of our competitors.
With regard to the low-cost carriers, One of your values is responsible leadership.
one of the areas implemented during Summer 2010 How do you put this into practice in the Group?
was a greater choice for our customers in terms of the duration of holidays.
Weve introduced 10 and Were very focused on sustainable tourism and 11 nights on top of our existing seven and 14-night were looking constantly at ways of reducing the offerings.
They have proved to be very popular level of carbon emissions as we transport and take and we will continue to offer further different our customers on holiday.
One way we do this is duration lengths in order to give our customers by having one of the most modern aircraft fleets the greatest choice of holiday experiences.
We continue to invest in new aircraft With regard to online travel agents, I think we types and were very excited about the delivery of compete in two different ways within our our new 787 Dreamliners which come into the fleet mainstream businesses and, taking the UK as an in 2012.
They burn 20% less fuel than the 767 fleet example, 40% of our bookings are transacted we currently operate.
We are also in the online travel agent space A very important part of our organisation, in the specialist area which is accommodation only absolutely key, is our leadership and the senior and we have two very important businesses within management team that run and operate our the Group which are LateRooms and AsiaRooms businesses and motivate and manage our and these businesses are extremely successful and colleagues.
We continually also look to develop growing very rapidly.
talent within the organisation because one of the critical success factors within our business is ensuring we have the right management in the right You have all but delivered the synergies place to continue to build and grow our businesses.
identified at the time of merger.
How are you going to grow the business going forward?
Peter Long I am very pleased with the success of the Chief Executive integration of our two UK businesses, Thomson www.
