Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 09 Strategic overview Chief Executives statement Following the success last year of launching our Annual Report & Accounts fully online we are doing the same this year with improvements to the functionality of the website and to the content.
Reducing our environmental impact is important to us and the fact that more than 70% of our shareholders elect to receive the Annual Report & Accounts online proves that it is important for our stakeholders as well.
As the worlds leading leisure travel company, this new structure of the Group see page 6 and financial year we have faced headwinds both within succession planning.
and outside of our control including volcanic ash, We operate in a highly regulated industry and economic uncertainty see page 10 and one dialogue at both a national Government and instance of our own making.
European Commission level is an important aspect We identified that, over a number of years, within of our daily lives both at TUI Travel and as TUI UK & Ireland, there was a failure to reconcile members of various industry and trade bodies.
balances adequately in legacy systems in the retail We believe that it is important that there is a level and tour operator businesses.
This has resulted playing field across leisure travel companies, airlines in us having to write off 117m of irrecoverable and intermediaries and we work to ensure that our balances.
We are, therefore, restating our 2009 views are heard and understood not only in our full year results with a reduction of underlying source markets but also in the destinations we operating profit of 42m to 401m and a reduction operate in.
For more information see page 12. in the underlying earnings per share of 3.8p from This year we have made progress on delivering our 23.8p to 20.0p.
We have also reduced our opening strategic imperatives, albeit not as great as we would reserves at 1 October 2008 by 70m from 2,596m have wished.
We know what we need to do to to 2,526m.
A full and detailed audit and business deliver long-term sustainable growth and have review has been undertaken and we are confident identified the levers with which to do that see that we have now rectified the weaknesses.
Trading in the new Having experienced some exceptional external financial year has started well but we believe that, challenges, the Summer season traded out strongly given that it is so early in the year and economic across the Group.
It was, however, not sufficient to uncertainty remains, it is prudent to be cautious recover the increased losses and costs from earlier in about our outlook.
We have experienced a later booking curve In a year when our 49,000 colleagues have dealt with due, in principle, to the economic uncertainties that so many external and internal challenges, I would like our customers have continued to face.
This is one of to thank them personally for all their efforts.
We the reasons why it is so important that we relentlessly have an outstanding team that delivers day-in dayfocus on our strategic imperatives to ensure that we out and I am extremely proud of what they achieve are able to deliver on our strategic goal.
and of all the businesses that make up TUI Travel.
As part of the focus during the year we made a number of changes to our Group Management Board see page 24.
These changes reflect the Peter Long Chief Executive View the CEOs interview online Watch the CEOs interview online at http: ara2010.
