Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review Moving on to the next level It has been an exceptional period for Tullow.
We have developed our deepwater operating capability and major changes are underway in production and cash flow.
We have new oil fields to develop and our exploration potential is better than ever.
Delivery and growth 2010 was a year of delivery and growth for Tullow.
We are bigger, better and stronger than ever before, but it has also been a year of contrasts.
We have experienced great exploration success and the excitement of First Oil in Ghana, contrasted with unanticipated delays and some uncertainty in Uganda.
This was undoubtedly a challenge for us, but true to our entrepreneurial spirit we used the time to review and consolidate the business, after the extraordinary year-on-year growth we had experienced since 2004.
We also continued to make steady progress across the organisation and there are hallmarks of success in each area of Tullow.
Major successes but taking time in Uganda We entered 2010 with a major exploration and appraisal programme planned for the year, which subsequently delivered material discoveries.
We were also blessed with two, almost simultaneous, world-class oil development projects in Ghana andUganda.
The commercial threshold for development in Uganda was achieved in 2009.
Uganda has prolific oil resources and will have an oil industry for many decades to come.
It was therefore fundamentally important to the GoU, Tullow and the new partnership with CNOOC and Total, to establish a strong fiscal and legal framework and this took many months of discussions.
The signing of the MoU will establish this framework and enable the GoU to grant consent for Tullows purchase of Heritages interests in the Lake Albert Basin and the subsequent farm-downs to CNOOC and Total.
We look forward to working closely with the GoU, in conjunction with CNOOC and Total in developing the Ugandan oil and gas sector.
Delivering First Oil has been an enormous undertaking, and the steps on the journey to For the latest information on Uganda visit the press release deliver on this scale have literally section of our website www.
com media transformed the business.
Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer 18 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 18 18 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:33 09:33 2 Who we are Developing a funding and partnership Tullow is 25 years old in 2011 and therefore 2010 programme for Social Enterprise projects that presented us with a timely opportunity to remember contributes to both our business as well as what Tullow is all about, what we are good at and economic and social development in countries what is important in terms of our personality and where we operate: and our culture.
Undertaking regular engagement with key We are entrepreneurial and driven and we like to external stakeholders to create genuine dialogue dothings differently because we take a long-term at a global and local level to respond appropriately approach to developing our business.
We want to to their needs and concerns.
This in turn helps to achieve our strategic objectives and goals and do so improve how we run our business.
We fundamentally In keeping with the nature of the industry and the believe everything is about teamwork and people level of investment required, Tullow has always and we want to be recognised and acknowledged taken a long-term approach.
Our goal, over the next asAfricas leading independent oil company.
25 years, is for Tullow to have been a great support We believe we will achieve our vision to become and service in the development of new oil producing theleading global independent E&P company countries: to have made a significant contribution to through our focus on Africa and by opening new real progress in economic and social development in basins with related geological plays in South those countries: and above all to be a company that America andelsewhere.
has delivered on its responsibilities.
For Tullow, Africa remains our birthplace and as Exploration-led growth aresult it is our heartland.
We have an excellent This year we have communicated more about our track record there and it provides great opportunities Group strategy and the key components of our E&A, for us to develop new basins and establish a new P&D and Finance strategies in this report.
While as industry model for partnership and shared prosperity.
entrepreneurs we are always looking for new ways to Our heritage is in Africa and our legacy will be accelerate the growth of the business, we are first and defined by our actions there.
foremost an exploration-led company with long-term production and cash flow targets to ensure that we can Creating shared prosperity fund our ambitious exploration programme.
The challenge for us is to characterise what creating shared prosperity means, and what success will look Our strategic priorities like for all our stakeholders so that we can measure We have clear strategic priorities focused on and report our progress towards that goal.
For developing our operations and running our Tullow, creating shared prosperity means behaving business in a responsible way.
responsibly in all aspects of our business to create With regard to our operational priorities, our 2010 an environment that helps us to successfully deliver exploration programme delivered an 83% success our business plans, continue our growth strategy, ratio and we achieved First Oil in Ghana on time and contribute to social and economic development, and within 5% of the original budget.
There were both within and outside of our core business unanticipated delays in finalising transactions in activities.
That means: Uganda during the year but an MoU with the GoU Being a successful, profitable company that gives will be the first step on an exciting journey to an appropriate return to our shareholders and successfully develop Uganda as a significant the providers of capital to the business: oil-producing country.
Rewarding employees for their contribution to In 2010, we also performed well against our our continued success: corporate responsibility priorities with a strong EHS performance.
We focused mainly on developing our Ensuring safe people, procedures and operations stakeholder strategy this year and we held our first and minimising environmental impacts: multi-stakeholder forum in London in February 2011.
Our total workforce grew 40% in 2010 as we Developing an industry that is run by nationals continued to grow our organisation and capabilities.
by addressing the need for in-country skills for Staff turnover during the year was 1.3%.
the oil and gas industry and hiring local staff: Supporting the growth of national and local businesses and helping those businesses enter into the industrys supply chain: www.
indd 19 19 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:33 09:33 Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review continued Vision To be the leading global independent exploration and production company Objective To deliver substantial returns to shareholders Strategy To achieve sustainable long-term growth through balanced funding, exploration and production in core geographical areas Operational priorities Corporate responsibility priorities 1 Executing selective high-impact 1 Ensuring safe people, procedures exploration programmes funded and operations, and minimising by surplus cash flow or equity environmental impacts 2 Delivering major projects, with a 2 Building long-term relationships with significant focus on increasing local governments, communities and bankable reserves key stakeholders 3 Managing our assets to high-grade the 3 Continuing to develop a strong team portfolio, replenish upside and assist with excellent commercial, technical funding needs and financial skills For more information on For more information on KPIs Corporate responsibility p10 p64 20 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 20 20 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 14:21 14:21 2 Total Shareholder Returns Market commentary and outlook Global equity markets exited 2010 largely unchanged In 2010, the key driver behind oil price was as signs of economic recovery were hampered by emerging market industrial demand, particularly sovereign debt concerns around Europe.
Strong demand helped the Brent oil year, the global oil and gas sector was placed under price to rally in the second half of the year and on severe scrutiny when the Deepwater Horizon well 31 December 2010 it closed at $93 barrel.
Overall, exploded off the Gulf of Mexico in April.
Stock Tullow benefited from a 30% rise in realised oil markets, and in particular oil and gas stocks, fell prices during 2010. significantly.
The explosion had a profound impact In terms of industry outlook, global oil demand in on the industry, causing governments and regulators 2011 is expected to show good growth.
The outlook to question drilling practices and safety procedures, for oil price in 2011 remains robust, mainly particularly in relation to deepwater drilling.
supported by a steady tightening of physical supply Unsurprisingly, in terms of share performance price, and emerging market growth.
The price of Brent oil the sector suffered on the back of the Deepwater is forecast to be higher through 2011 and Horizon events: but industry responsiveness and an favourable oil prices are expected to be positive for increased focus on safety saw some improvement the sector as a whole.
The management of oil price towards the year end.
volatility will be of particular significance to Tullow, Overall, pricing across the sector closed flat in 2010 given our enhanced production profile following and Tullow exited the year with Total Shareholder First Oil in Ghana in 2010.
Return TSR down 3% 2009: 99% increase 2011 represents one of the most active drilling reflecting delays in Uganda and wider market calendars across the industry, combining and industry factors.
However Tullows TSR high-impact exploration and appraisal campaigns performance over a three and five-year period with frontier drilling programmes.
We expect ranks us number two and one respectively versus supply-side cost pressures to increase during 2011 our industry peer group.
in line with increased activity and as a greater focus is placed on EHS following the Macondo incident in For more information on p10KPIs 2010.
Given events in North Africa and Western Asia already this year, geopolitical risk is expected to heighten during the year.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 2011 to 2013 business plans Our 2011 to 2013 business plan objectives support 363% our well established growth strategy and they are Over a five-year period Tullow has outperformed the closely aligned with our operational strategic FTSE 100 by 363%.
Our 2011 to 2013 plans are as follows: Across the Group, to create specific plans to 600 maximise the value of all existing assets, in line with portfolio management criteria.
This is an 500 ongoing business objective: Throughout our organisation to ensure we 400 continue to build capability and align our cost base appropriately with our current phase of growth and 300 development.
In 2010, over 250 people joined Tullow as employees and our total workforce including contractors grew 40% to over 1,200 people: 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Tullow Oil plc FTSE 100 www.
indd 21 21 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:33 09:33 Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review t d n n a e n m o i p t o c l u e d v o r e P d F G i o l v n a e g Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review continued To deliver the asset farm-down in Uganda and establish the new Tullow, CNOOC and Total partnership, as well as drill out the exploration portfolio and progress development of discoveries to date.
As a result of delays in reaching agreement with the GoU we have reframed our 2010 to 2012 business plans and timescales for this project: In E&A, to continue to execute high-impact, Our business model material campaigns and high-grade the Groups In order to explore we must first be granted a licence by the exploration portfolio in core geological plays and Government of the countries in which we invest.
After extensive areas of focus.
This is similar to our 2010 to 2012 analysis, annual exploration campaigns are planned to try business plan objective in this area and is to discover oil and gas fields or more strategically open new consistently underpinned by a very active annual basins.
When we have a significant discovery we drill appraisal E&A programme.
40 wells are planned in 2011: wells to determine the size and quality of the discovery.
For P&D, in Ghana, our goal is to deliver a gross production plateau of 120,000 bopd in 2011 and Tweneboa Enyera project sanction in 2012.
In 2010 it was to deliver Jubilee Phase 1 First Oil and commence production ramp up: and In Finance, we will seek to align long-range funding with exploration, appraisal and development business requirements and portfolio management strategy.
The successful equity placing in 2010, coupled with the planned Uganda farm-down and the increased cash flow from Ghana will ensure that we remain well funded Integrated to execute our exploration-led strategy.
decision Outlook 2011 has started very well.
Production is increasing making from Jubilee.
A major exploration campaign is underway to open up several potential new basins in Africa and South America and appraisal programmes will assist the sanctioning of major new oil and gas development projects.
We are making significant progress in Uganda and will soon be moving into the development phase for thebasin.
We look forward to another year ofachievement.
If appraisal confirms that development of a discovery will be commercially and financially viable, we begin work on Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer a development plan.
This maps out how we will get the hydrocarbons into production to generate revenue and cash flow.
We maintain financial flexibility so that we can sustain a $500 to $700 million exploration programme and build up longer-term exploration and portfolio options.
Also fundamental is funding the accelerated development of our major projects in Ghana and in Uganda.
While the Board has overall responsibility for the stewardship and governance of Tullow, the focus of legal and governance is to underpin best practice and ensure regulatory compliance and deliver legal support to all commercial aspects of the business.
22 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 22 22 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:33 09:33 r a e n L a n n c c e e d n l a a n s i o i a t r a p r o p l a p x E 2 How were organised Exploration and appraisal A strong governance and organisational framework defines the roles and Our E&A team has strategic responsibility for deciding what responsibilities of our Board and senior exploration campaigns we will undertake and ensuring that management.
It is based on accountability, we continually replenish our exploration portfolio.
They transparency and achieving the highest identify core plays, prioritise prospective exploration standards of ethics and integrity.
Risk options and execute E&A programmes with material management is the overall responsibility of follow-on campaigns.
the Board, with additional resources provided For more information on by the Audit Committee.
p24 E&A In 2011 we reorganised our operational structure into three regions so that the management and resources of our business are aligned with delivering our business objectives.
Production and development Our P&D team has strategic responsibility for delivery of major projects, such as First Oil in Ghana, as well as having a strong focus on the management of production and increasing our reserves, which are critical to revenue and Board of Directors cash flow generation.
P&D also has responsibility for ensuring safe people, procedures and operations and minimising environmental impacts.
For more information on p26 P&D Executive Directors Finance Our financial strategy is responsibile for funding sustainable long-term growth through an appropriate Senior Management Committee capital structure that achieves a balance between operational cash flow, portfolio management and the capital requirements of exploration, appraisal and the development of major projects.
For more information see the p36 Corporate functions Finance review Legal and governance Regional Business Units Our legal and governance team has strategic responsibility for maintaining the highest corporate and ethical standards, and for all governance and legal issues including full regulatory compliance, as well as building a strong global For more information on the team with excellent legal and commercial skills.
skills and experience of our Board members see For more information on Board of Directors p72 Corporate governance p74 www.
indd 23 23 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:19 15:19 Directors Report: Business review Chief Executives review
