Chief Executives review Richard Longdon Chief Executive Overview AVEVA continued its development despite the challenges Highlights of the world economy, delivering a good performance Ov erall performance of most industry segments served reflecting the fundamental strengths of the business.
by AVEVA has been in line with our expectations.
Our strong base of recurring revenue and good growth A VEVA managed to secure important new contracts with in developing markets helped to mitigate the impact of Kyokuyo Shipyard in Japan and Samsung in Korea.
global economic uncertainty, particularly on initial fees in Marine.
As a result, overall revenue fell only 10% to The q uality of the AVEVA products and their suitability 148.3 million 2009 164.0 million.
for the Oil and Gas projects in Brazil has positioned AVEVA for strong growth in this market.
Decisive restructuring actions taken in the first half R esearch and Development continued to be a key priority delivered the anticipated efficiency savings, better during the year.
equipping the Group to address the trading environment.
This helped to ensure that margins remained strong at 33% 2009 35%, whilst also enabling us to invest selectively in growth opportunities, particularly in South America, the CIS, where we expanded local resources and AVEVA NET where we increased capacity in solutions delivery.
The whole organisation showed great professionalism and commitment throughout this process and the Group was quickly able to move forward this year with the right cost base.
Overall performance of most industry segments served by AVEVA has been in line with our expectations.
Funding constraints in the Oil and Gas sector led to some major new projects proceeding slowly, although the situation steadily improved during the year.
In particular, there to view the Chief Executives review online: have been some areas of intense activity, notably Brazil, ar.
com 2010 where we have expanded our presence in Rio fide Janeiro.
AVEVA continued its development despite the challenges of the world economy, delivering a good performance reflecting the fundamental strengths of the business.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 10 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 10 01 06 2010 16:41:05 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements The Power industry tends to have much longer investment Asia Pacific Revenue 50.5 million cycles and has not been as susceptible to the global 2009 67.1 million downturn with our business in both fossil-fuelled and Whilst we have had to adjust for a rapid decline in nuclear builds continuing to grow steadily.
Marine did Marine sales, growth was delivered in other parts of the suffer from a dramatic decline in new build orders and business, in particular the Chinese Power market.
We also concerns over funding for the existing ship order backlog.
made good progress in sales of AVEVA NET to both Plant and Marine customers.
Asia has borne the brunt of the By making some hard decisions at the start of the year decline in initial fee licence sales, as the majority of to adjust the cost base we have been able to expand the Asian business tends to be based on the initial fee sales business during the year to exploit new opportunities.
as opposed to the rental model, which is more prevalent We have recruited high calibre people into both our office in other regions.
network and the AVEVA NET organisation, which has already benefited our sales.
There have been a number of significant Due to the very high number of sales in Marine during sales of AVEVA NET during the year and a strengthening the latter part of 2008 09 and the ongoing opportunities business pipeline as we have built up our specialist of providing start up assistance to new customers, support business development team focused on sales into the levels were maintained in China Marine.
However, we were owner operator market.
We have already started on also able to focus these resources on selling AVEVA NET building up our service delivery capability in order into the rapidly growing market for Product Lifecycle to serve this 500 billion market.
Management PLM solutions within the Marine customer base.
Global performance Despite the downturn, AVEVA managed to secure Providing a consistent high quality level of product important new contracts with Kyokuyo Shipyard in performance and customer service has become increasingly Japan and Samsung in Korea for both Marine and important during the last year, as customers who already Plant divisions.
operate internationally seek to introduce further efficiencies into their own operations by increasing the use of 24 7 In non-Marine markets we made good progress working and high value engineering centres.
in securing important new strategic contracts.
This included collaboration with one of the worlds largest Key to the success in winning customers away from our companies, China National Petroleum Co Petrochemical competitors has been the high quality of support and Project Company CNPC PPC.
service we can offer from our 35 locations, in addition to the partners who work with us in some regions.
Citec Engineering Oy Mr. Thomas Back, Application Specialist: Most importantly, the system gives us the ability to generate completely clash-free designs.
Everything will fit when the plant is being built.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 11 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 11 01 06 2010 16:41:06 Chief Executives review continued Global performance continued Operator market in the United States, with the aim of Americas Revenue 26.9 million replicating our recent successes.
We were pleased with 2009 24.4 million the highly successful implementation of AVEVA NET at Latin America, particularly in Brazil, provides an Mustang, one of the largest EPC firms in the US.
important development opportunity for the Group.
The market in Canada was one of the first casualties of Since the opening of our office in Rio fide Janeiro last year, the rapid oil price decline and shows little sign of recovery we have built a high quality team and have already in the short term.
With the oil price at circa US$80 there doubled the size of our original office, with plans to is still uncertainty surrounding the exploitation of oil continue hiring into our sales and customer support sands reserves in Canada and the high costs of teams.
The quality of the AVEVA products and their subsequent environmental impact.
suitability for the Oil and Gas projects in Brazil, along with the local support, has positioned AVEVA for strong EMEA Revenue 70.9 million 2009 72.6 million, growth in this market for the foreseeable future.
We have combined former WEMEA and CES regions secured a two year corporate agreement with Petrobras The combined EMEA region, which was created last year for the supply of design products.
from two business regions, has performed very well throughout the year.
This region has a very diverse AVEVA products are already being used on many of the spread of business and a wide geographic mix with offshore projects starting to be commissioned in the diverse drivers, from the Middle East, up through the CIS, region, with new customers joining from the Brazilian across to Spain and down as far as South Africa.
Engineering, Procurement and Contracting EPC The Oil and Gas business has performed well.
In addition, AVEVA has the opportunity notable highlights include a large rental expansion from to sell the AVEVA Marine products into new shipyards Technip and our first significant sale in Iraq with AVEVA which are expected to be commissioned to build Floating products installed at SIDDCO and ADMA in Abu Dhabi, Production and Storage Offshore FPSO vessels and a who have mandated the use of AVEVA products on all fleet of Very Large Crude Carriers VLCC.
The Power market is very important Performance in North America has remained subdued.
across the EMEA region, with long-term customers like As in previous years our strong and enduring relationships Alstom and AREVA as key players.
We have extended our with many Oil and Gas customers have provided stability relationship with AREVA by securing business from the and some growth opportunities.
We have used the AREVA Nuclear Fuels division.
The Marine business, which downturn to build our business development expertise, is spread across the region, has been generally flat with particular focus on deeper penetration of the Owner throughout the year.
Alliance Engineering Mr. Ron Bohannon, Vice President of Engineering: AVEVAs technology helps us streamline our engineering process and contributes to Alliance Engineerings ability to deliver projects at a lower weight therefore, lower cost and ahead of schedule.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 12 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 12 01 06 2010 16:41:07 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements AVEVA has achieved a very strong position as a preferred supplier for many of the worlds power station providers, both fossil-fuelled and nuclear.
EMEA has been the region where we have been the most we anticipate a steady increase in demand for many years consistently successful in winning customers away from to come, as the current global power generation capacity our competitors.
This year we have added 79 new name falls well short of predicted consumption even before customers across the region, with many of these converting taking into account all of the capacity which is due to be to AVEVA after years of using competitors systems.
retired in the near future.
We are also investing in the CIS and have seen very Marine presented us with the most challenges but has strong sales in this sub region.
AVEVA has won important performed predictably throughout the year.
We still have new business with customers in the Oil and Gas and a very busy customer base in Marine as most customers Power markets.
Some of these customers will be strategic are working on orders received over recent years and for in winning further business as we expand in the region.
the majority of customers these orders still stretch out Of particular note is the contract with OJSC TANECO, the over the next two or three years.
Until the market for new operator of the new multibillion dollar refinery complex ships returns we expect the market for design tools to in Russia, who will now use AVEVA NET as the consolidation remain subdued.
However, efficient production is paramount tool for all engineering data for this mega project.
In the in a modern shipyard and we plan to extend the use of Nuclear power field we have secured KIEP as our second the Marine variant of AVEVA NET to more yards, particularly CIS nuclear design institute.
In Oil and Gas, whilst the tar sands project in Canada End user market trends remains slow to recover from the stoppages caused by We have seen differing trends in each of the main end uncertainty over commodity prices, most other areas user markets during the year.
In Brazil the market is very AVEVA has achieved a very strong position as a preferred strong, as Petrobras and others rush to capitalise on the supplier for many of the worlds power station providers, huge oil reserves off the Brazilian east coast.
We expect both fossil-fuelled and nuclear.
The global span of customers this market to continue to grow strongly and further using AVEVA products on new build power plants can be investment in Brazil is a key element of our future seen by our leading position with many of the European planning.
We see additional opportunities in Russia suppliers but is particularly pronounced in Asia, with and expect to continue to grow our team there following some great successes during the past year in China.
the strong performance from this region during the The market for power stations has a very long-lead cycle past year.
With greater stability in the oil price we are and may span a recession but there have been concerns planning further investment in those regions likely to over the funding of future projects, in particular large benefit from consistently increased commodity prices.
Although we have not yet seen These include Malaysia and the global market for FPSO a huge upturn in demand for products from this sector, assets, where AVEVA is already a leader.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 13 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 13 01 06 2010 16:41:07 Chief Executives review continued AVEVA has done very well over the last year and the core strengths in both our people and products have served to provide confidence to customers in a difficult year.
Technology and products In addition to work on consolidating the core product Research and Development continued to be a key range, we have continued to expand the functionality of priority during the year in order to enhance our AVEVA NET with many new features added, as we gained software applications and functionality.
The high levels further experience working with oil majors and large of investment in recent years ensure that we have the Chinese shipbuilders.
The teams working on AVEVA NET most advanced product offering in the industry.
There have been increased during the year, with plans in place has been a large investment in consolidating the to continue the expansion of AVEVA NET and bring to developments of recent years and further improving market a novel web navigation capability within the quality.
This work has been carried out across the entire coming months.
product portfolio, with special focus on those developments deemed essential for deeper penetration of developing Organisation and people markets in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
The AVEVA human resources team played a key role in successfully transitioning the organisation into a shape Integration between applications from multiple vendors and size which was needed as we entered the downturn.
has been high on the agenda of many Chief Information This was achieved by introducing a range of cost saving Officers and AVEVA has always been a leader in providing measures including a salary freeze, career breaks, open solutions and investing in global standards initiatives.
part-time working and some redundancies, both During the last year we have provided more interfaces to voluntary and compulsory.
Once again I would like to third-party software products than ever before to enable thank all those affected by this for their understanding customers to achieve greater value from their project and professionalism.
We have continued to expand the sales and support Last year we acquired a specialist business in Australia network and our relatively new office in Brazil has to manage instrumentation data.
The new version of this doubled in size to cope with the demands of this exciting instrumentation product has been delivered and, with new market for AVEVA products and services.
We have many new customers taking up this product during the also increased staff numbers in Russia and the CIS, year, we have received very positive feedback on the along with some areas within the Asia Pacific region.
level of functionality and the competitiveness of our new solution.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 14 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 14 01 06 2010 16:41:07 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Since merging two sales regions into one to form We will continue to seek to maximise organic growth EMEA last year and the rigorous examination of our and to complement it with acquisitions as and when cost base, we have made cost savings by rationalising opportunities arise which can extend the functionality some corporate functions and introduced new centralised of our products or our market reach.
systems to streamline the reporting processes of a very international business.
Outlook AVEVA has done very well over the last year and the core strengths in both our people and products have served Richard Longdon to provide confidence to customers in a difficult year.
Chief Executive As the global economic outlook improves, AVEVA is 26 May 2010 well placed to fulfil customers requirements through our world-class products together with their increasingly high level of service demanded.
We have taken the opportunity over the past year to evaluate all aspects of our business and have been continually strengthening the areas where we see the most opportunity for growth, in particular increasing the investment levels in AVEVA NET.
With our design products we have invested in new geographies that have grown strongly and we will continue to invest and develop offices and people.
AVEVA has the right products and a proven track record which appeal to customers seeking highly functional products backed by first class local support and service.
Sumitomo Heavy Industries Marine & Engineering Dr Masao Takekawa, Director of Construction Management Division: The quality and efficiency of our design have been improved with AVEVA Marine.
We believe these efficient solutions are key ingredients to success in todays competitive and very challenging shipbuilding world.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 15 2 AVE ar10 front.
