com Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review 2010 has seen a progressive return to growth Progressive improvement in rental income in the car rental industry as global economic through both market recovery and our own conditions have stabilised, albeit with a number actions to gain market share we saw a progressive of unforeseen disruptions to the travel industry improvement in volumes in our corporatelyduring the year.
this has enabled us to continue owned segment during the year with billed days our focus on driving further improvements in turning positive in the second half, leading to a 4 pricing together with a tight control of costs and like-for-like increase of 0.8% for the full year.
At the same time, we invested in future An improving macroeconomic environment, our growth opportunities, particularly our continued geographic diversification, brand leadership expansion in China and introducing new mobility and service differentiation all contributed to this customer offerings.
performance which was achieved despite the disruptions to travel caused by adverse weather 1 We significantly improved underlying profit before conditions across Northern Europe at both the tax to 51.0 million 2009: 35.2 million, with beginning and end of the year and the Icelandic 2 pre-tax margin ahead by 120 basis points to ash cloud in April.
We saw an improving trend in 3 4.2% and return on capital employed ahead the majority of countries, the main exception being by 250 basis points to 12.4%, all at the highest Spain where the trading environment continues to levels in five years.
We achieved the highest growth Brand leadership and service differentiation are key strategic drivers We are committed to serving all of our stakeholders.
Stakeholder Main strategic focus Shareholders Develop strong customer-oriented and mobility brands Drive profitable growth Ensure capital efficiency Customers Deliver consistently high service standards Brand differentiation Employees Ensure our people are well-trained and positively incentivised Business affiliates Develop strategic alliances Environment Reduce our impacts to a minimum Community Contribute to the quality of life in the communities in which we operate Drive employee engagement in volunteering and fundraising Strategic focuS avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 7 the Board monitors a range of financial and non-financial performance indicators, reported on a regular basis, to measure the groups performance.
of these, the Key Performance Indicators KPIs are set out below: Corporately-owned segment KPIs Progress 2010 Rental revenue per day Continued to monitor capacity levels closely, capitalising on investments made in revenue management and seeking to optimise customer mix, which led to a 1.6% increase.
Billed days through both market recovery and gaining market share, we saw a progressive improvement in volumes, 0.1% lower overall and 0.8% ahead on a like-for-like basis.
improvement in utilisation in addition to the stepchange improvement in 2009, despite operational challenges arising from the ash cloud.
overall group KPIs Progress 2010 underlying pre-tax Significant improvement in underlying profit before tax drove margin 120 basis point increase in pre-tax margin to 4.2%.
underlying Return on underlying return on capital employed was ahead 250 basis Capital Employed points to 12.4%, driven by an improvement in operating margin and strong capital employed performance.
In the opinion of the Directors, underlying pre-tax margin is a more appropriate key performance indicator than underlying operating margin as it includes the financing cost of operating a rent-a-car business.
Accordingly, the KPIs presented have been amended since the comparative year in respect of this change.
S Sh ha ar re eh ho ol ld fide er rS S Business review 8 avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review continued in the uK largely as a result of winning several customer mix.
these actions have all helped implementation of an improved systems interface major new corporate contracts and gaining share to achieve a 1.6% improvement in constant for rental station staff, thereby reducing training 6 5 in the less seasonal and off-airport Insurance currency rental revenue per day.
needs and improving the customer experience.
the strong focus on fleet costs remains and Fee income from Licensee segments was 8.6% we are presently rolling out a new system to We are focussed on differentiating and higher.
Most Avis regions were ahead of prior help minimise vehicle holding costs by further strengthening our brands.
Recent initiatives have year, benefiting from earlier volume recovery optimising the rotation of vehicles on the rental included the re-launch of our customer booking and favourable exchange rates.
websites, enhancing our online customer invoice Budget income was lower year-on-year as two portals, introducing an iPhone rental reservation markets were reorganised as corporately-owned Further improvement in utilisation 10 application and the development of a Blackberry operations.
We have increased utilisation by a further 100 booking solution.
these enhancements and basis points to 73.9%, in addition to the 390 innovations complement the continued success Tight cost and capital discipline basis point step-change improvement achieved of our 3-minute promise under which we Following the substantial reduction of the fixed in the prior year.
this is despite the operational guarantee our Avis Preferred customers their keys cost base in 2009, we continued to focus on challenges arising from the ash cloud and a and rental agreement within three minutes of maintaining discipline over all cost lines.
the progressive rebalancing of holding periods for our entering the rental station.
this service remains average number of staff was reduced by a further non-repurchase vehicles.
Introduction of a nonunmatched in the rental industry.
2.9% and we extended the salary freeze of the cancellation fee is also helping improve utilisation, previous year through the first quarter of 2010. as we now receive more advance notice of In addition, we saw further substantial growth customers changed travel plans.
in the recently introduced customer offer, Avis During the year, we increased the operational Flex, a versatile monthly rental product to satisfy integration of the corporately-owned Budget Continued momentum of growing margins increasing demand for greater flexibility from our rental locations with Avis to now include germany and returns Corporate customers.
and Holland, further maximising synergies by fully As a result of the above actions, underlying 2 combining fleet and back office functions.
operating margin further improved by 10 basis We have continued to monitor capacity levels points to 9.0%.
Net finance costs substantially closely, capitalising on the investments made in We have also driven further efficiencies reduced as a result of both lower debt levels revenue management and seeking to optimise in business processes.
We extended the reduced by the Rights Issue and continued Quality of service is a key differentiator.
Customer loyalty is important and we use the following customer KPIs to track our performance and drive improvement.
Customer KPIs Progress overall satisfaction levels overall satisfaction levels improved by 1% over the year, mainly as a result of greater customer satisfaction with vehicle choice, availability and condition.
tM tM Net Promoter Score our Net Promoter Score measures customers willingness to recommend Avis to a friend.
during 2010, reflecting growing customer loyalty based on their recent Avis experience.
Customer complaints the percentage of customer invoices which were adjusted in 2010 increased by only 0.1% pt.
from 2009, in a year which included a high degree of travel disruption due to adverse winter weather, the volcanic ash cloud and airline industrial action.
Station performance the station performance score, which measures the overall efficiency of the running of a rental station, remained stable throughout 2010. cuStomerS avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 9 Differentiation through innovation iPhone app Avis Home Delivery The Avis iPhone app launched in eight countries during 2010 and will be Designed to make the car rental experience more convenient, we launched extended to a further six countries in 2011.
Customers can search for doorstep delivery and collection throughout the UK during 2010.
Building vehicles, obtain quotes and book their hire cars in three easy steps and in on our existing delivery and collection capability for Corporate customers, less than three minutes.
A Blackberry app is being developed for 2011. our Individual customers can now have their rental car delivered direct to their home and collected at the end of the rental for a small additional fee.
The service has proved extremely popular with customers, with over 90% of respondents to a recent survey saying they would recommend Avis Home Delivery to a friend.
Customer take-up continues to show strong growth, supported by specific marketing activity including a successful nationwide radio campaign.
Avis Flex Launched in 2009, Avis Flex provides a flexible and cost effective long-term rental solution for Corporate customers.
During 2010 Avis Flex was rolled out to 10 European markets with revenue growth doubling versus 2009.
New website The enhanced Avis website was launched across all corporately-owned countries and a number of licensees in June 2010.
The customer journey through the website has been substantially refined, with a 50% reduction in the number of steps required to make a booking.
Since launch, the number of visitors to our site who go on to make a booking has increased by circa 20%.
com Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review continued capital discipline and reduced interest rates.
As launch of home delivery and collection in the a consequence, underlying pre-tax margin was uK and the development in France of an strongly increased by 120 basis points to 4.2%.
alternative short-term solution for leasing customers of Citroen.
underlying return on capital employed was ahead by 250 basis points to 12.4% driven by both the Outlook improvement in operating margin and the focus on our dual-brand strategy and global reach is capital employed.
well placed to drive growth and benefit from the improving economic climate in most of our Strategic development main markets.
While visibility remains limited, In addition to the continued focus on our particularly in Spain, we expect overall volumes traditional markets in Western Europe, we to further improve and we will continue to seek to continue to invest in our international operations.
this includes continued licensee network development for example, the recent opening Costs and capital discipline also remain key and in Vietnam and rapidly expanding our joint we continue to focus on improving utilisation.
In addition to the long-term Furthermore, net finance costs will reduce yeargrowth potential in these markets, we are already on-year, benefiting from cash flow performance beginning to benefit from the very strong growth and the full year effect of the Rights Issue.
rates in outbound international travel of these We therefore expect a further increase in our customers into our traditional markets.
Furthermore, we have identified growth In addition to the focus on our traditional core opportunities as consumers and businesses markets, benefiting from the Avis and Budget begin to seek to move away from existing brand strengths and close attention to quality of vehicle ownership patterns, recognising that service, we will also continue to invest in future we are well placed to help shape the evolution profitable growth opportunities, particularly of environmentally compatible mobility.
Current our ongoing expansion in China and other fast investment and development activity in such growing markets, and innovate through the mobility offers includes the acquisition of Vinci introduction of further new mobility customer Parks interest in our Paris car sharing operation, offers.
the Board remains confident of further now being re-launched as Avis on Demand: the progress in the year ahead.
com Annual Report 2010 11 Avis presence in China.
Our early market entry and the strength of the Avis brand are reinforcing our leading market position.
We currently have 39 locations in 28 cities and are on track to increase the number of rental stations to 100 by the end of 2012.
Wurumqi HaErBin ShenYang Hohhot BeiJing DaLian Yinchuan TianJin JiNan Xining QingDao Lanzhou XiAn NanJing JiangYin HeFei WuXi ChangZhou ShangHai ChengDu SuZhou WuHan Lhasa NingBo ChongQing HangZhou ChangSha NanChang DongGuan Kunming XiaMen GuangZhou ShenZhen JiangMen HongKong ZhongShan Business review
