2010 Review of the Year and Notice of Annual General Meeting Chief Executives review In a challenging economic environment our financial results exceeded our guidance on all measures, we increased our commercial focus, delivered our cost reduction targets ahead of schedule and maintained strong capital investment levels.
line with our expectations, primarily as a result of lower revenue in Europe and the greater weight of lower margin operations in emerging economies.
Group adjusted operating profit was 11.5 billion, with a growing contribution from Verizon Wireless and foreign exchange benefits offsetting weaker performance in Europe.
Group free cash flow was 7.2 billion, up 26.5%, benefiting from significant improvements in working capital management and a deferred dividend from Verizon Wireless.
This exceptional level of cash flow was generated whilst maintaining capital investment up slightly at 6.2 billion, developing fixed broadband services in Europe, funding the turnaround in Turkey and Ghana, and expanding in India.
At the year end we had 341.1 million proportionate mobile customers worldwide.
Adjusted earnings per share was 16.11 pence, lower than last year Revenue bn Vittorio Colao Chief Executive primarily as the result of a one-off tax benefit in the prior year.
Excluding 44.5 this, adjusted earnings per share increased by 6.6%.
41.0 Financial review of the year 35.5 2010 financial results were ahead of guidance on all measures.
Prospects for the year ahead Increased revenue contribution from our targeted growth We expect the Group to return to organic revenue growth during the areas in data, fixed line and emerging markets.
2011 financial year although this will be dependent upon the strength Free cash flow generation of 7.2 billion, up 26.5%.
of the economic environment and the level of unemployment within Europe.
In contrast, revenue growth in other emerging economies, in 2008 2009 2010 Progress on strategy particular India and Africa, is expected to continue as the Group drives We have made significant progress in implementing our strategy.
penetration and data in these markets.
Adjusted operating profit is We now generate 33% of service revenue from products other than expected to be in the range of 11.2 billion to 12.0 billion.
Free cash mobile voice, reflecting the shift of Vodafone to a total communications flow is expected to be in excess of 6.5 billion, consistent with our new provider.
In particular, mobile data and fixed broadband services three year target of between 6.0 billion and 7.0 billion per annum.
continue to grow, while we increased the contribution being made by our operations in emerging economies, primarily by gaining market Shareholder returns share.
We have reduced costs and working capital to manage better Total dividends per share have increased by 7% to 8.31 pence with in the recessionary environment while maintaining investment in a final dividend of 5.65 pence per share, reflecting the strong cash our networks.
As a result of the successful execution of the Groups strategy and our expectations for improving operating free Economic impact cash flow from our emerging markets and fixed line investments, the The economic situation has remained challenging throughout the Board is targeting dividend per share growth of at least 7% per annum Product focus: Vodafone year, affecting our business in several ways.
In our more mature for the next three financial years ending on 31 March 2013.
We expect 360 Samsung H1 European and Central European operations, voice and messaging that total dividends per share will therefore be no less than 10.18 pence Customers are increasingly revenue declined and roaming revenue fell due to lower business and for the 2013 financial year.
In addition enterprise revenue declined in Europe as our smartphones to download business customers reduced activity and headcount.
applications and browse the internet.
Financial results In the full year Group revenue increased by 8.4% to 44.5 billion.
The Vittorio Colao Groups EBITDA margin declined by 2.2 percentage points to 33.1%, in Chief Executive Our strategy The key focus of our strategy is to drive free cash flow generation.
This is supported by four main objectives: drive operational performance, pursue growth opportunities in total communications, execute in emerging markets and strengthen capital discipline.
Focus on free cash flow generation and execution Progress Drive operational performance Increased smartphone penetration across our customer base.
Capital investment of 6.2 billion to enhance our product portfolio and network quality.
1 billion cost reduction programme delivered a year early: a further 1 billion programme now underway.
Pursue growth opportunities 19% data revenue growth: driven by PC connectivity services and mobile internet usage.
in total communications Fixed broadband customer base of 5.6 million, up 1 million.
2% revenue growth in Vodafone Global Enterprise.
Execute in emerging markets India now has 100 million customers, up a record 32 million during the year.
Returned to revenue growth in Turkey driven by investment in the network, IT and distribution.
All amounts marked with an represent organic 33% data revenue growth in Vodacom.
growth which presents Strengthen capital discipline 4.1 billion of free cash flow used to pay dividends.
Total dividends per share of 8.31 pence, up 7%.
performance on a comparable basis, both Remaining free cash flow used to purchase spectrum and an additional 15% of Vodacom.
in terms of merger and New dividend target dividends per share growth of at least 7% over the next three acquisition activity and financial years.
