Vittorio Colao Chief Executive Chief Executives review In a challenging economic environment our financial results exceeded our guidance on all measures, we increased our commercial focus, delivered our cost reduction targets ahead of schedule and maintained strong capital investment levels.
Financial review of the year was 11.5 billion, with a growing contribution from Verizon Wireless and 2010 financial results were ahead of guidance on all measures.
foreign exchange benefits offsetting weaker performance in Europe.
Increased revenue contribution from our targeted growth areas in data, fixed line and emerging markets.
Group free cash flow was 7.2 billion, up 26.5%, benefiting from Free cash flow generation of 7.2 billion, up 26.5%.
significant improvements in working capital management and a deferred dividend from Verizon Wireless.
This exceptional level of cash We have made significant progress in implementing our strategy.
We flow was generated whilst maintaining capital investment, developing now generate 33% of service revenue from products other than mobile fixed broadband services in Europe, funding the turnaround in Turkey voice reflecting the shift of Vodafone to a total communications provider.
and Ghana, and expanding in India.
In particular, mobile data and fixed broadband services continue to grow while we increased the contribution being made by our operations in At the year end we had 341 million proportionate mobile customers emerging economies, primarily by gaining market share.
reduced costs and working capital to manage better in the recessionary Free cash flow environment while maintaining investment in our networks.
Europe service revenue declined by 3.5%.
Data and fixed line revenue growth was strong but this was more than offset by ongoing 7.2bn As a result, Vodafones financial results are ahead of the guidance voice price reduction and lower volume growth in our core voice up 26.5% range we issued in May 2009 and the upgraded guidance we issued in products.
Europes EBITDA margin declined by 1.0 percentage point, February 2010.
The Group generated free cash flow of approximately at about the same rate as the previous year, reflecting lower revenue, 1 billion ahead of our medium-term target established in November increased commercial activity, reduced cost and the increased 2008 even after adjusting for beneficial foreign exchange.
contribution from lower margin fixed broadband.
Operating free cash flow was strong at 8.2 billion.
The economic situation has remained challenging throughout the year affecting our business in several ways.
In our more mature European Africa and Central Europe service revenue declined by 1.2%, with and Central European operations, voice and messaging revenue good revenue growth at Vodacom and a much stronger result in declined and roaming revenue fell due to lower business and leisure Turkey being offset by the impact of weaker economies in Central travel.
In addition, enterprise revenue declined in Europe as our business Europe.
The EBITDA margin declined by around 2 percentage points, customers reduced activity and headcount.
However, results in Africa due to lower profitability in Turkey where we have focused on and India remained robust driven by continued, albeit lower, GDP investment in the network, distribution, driving market share and growth and increasing market penetration.
During the course of the brand visibility.
financial year the impact of the global slowdown on the Groups financial performance has diminished somewhat with Group service revenue Asia Pacific and Middle East service revenue increased by 9.8%, declining in the fourth quarter by only 0.2%, better than the preceding reflecting another strong contribution from India where service three quarters and the second successive quarterly improvement.
During the 2010 financial year we attracted 32 million customers in India and in March we exceeded the 100 In the full year Group revenue increased by 8.4% to 44.5 billion, million customer mark.
In a very competitive pricing environment we declining 2.3% after excluding benefits from foreign exchange and were pleased to have confirmed our number two position in the acquisitions.
The Groups EBITDA margin declined by 2.2 percentage market.
Since Vodafones entry into India in 2007, our performance has points to 33.1%, in line with our expectations, primarily as a result of been strong.
We have gained about 1 percentage point per annum in lower revenue in Europe and the greater weight of lower margin revenue market share, added 72 million customers, moved the operations in emerging economies.
Group adjusted operating profit business into operating free cash flow generation and launched Indus 6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Executive summary Revenue bn 44.5 41.0 35.5 2008 2009 2010 We have improved Towers, the worlds largest tower company with more than 100,000 Vodafone continues to evolve towards being a total communications towers under management.
However the introduction of six additional provider, rebalancing mobile voice in mature economies with our commercial national mobile licences one year after our entry and the resulting increasing revenue from broadband data services.
We have also focus and cost intense price competition have led to a 2.3 billion impairment charge.
increased the proportion of revenue we generate from emerging efficiency, with In Australia our joint venture company with Hutchison continues to economies.
In parallel we continued to reduce our cost base to finance visible results.
perform in line with the merger plan with pro-forma revenue growth growth and commercial competitiveness primarily by leveraging our of 8%.
The EBITDA margin for the region declined by 2.2 percentage Group scale.
points, primarily reflecting lower margins in India caused by the competitive pricing environment and operating investment in 1.
Drive operational performance new circles.
We have reinforced the commercial focus of our operating companies by emphasising relative market share of quality customers, exploitation Verizon Wireless posted another set of strong results for the financial of the data opportunity and expansion into converged services.
Service revenue growth was 6.3% driven by increased customer Progress in all areas has become more evident in the second half of penetration and data, although price competition has increased and the year.
growth rates have slowed in the second half of the year.
We have established joint initiatives with Verizon Wireless around LTE At the same time we accelerated our 1 billion cost reduction technology and enterprise customers during the year.
programme, announced in 2008, and delivered its full benefits one year ahead of plan.
The majority of these savings were generated by We maintained capital investment at a similar level to the previous our European operations and from cost reductions in our central financial year and invested 6.2 billion, consistent with our guidance functions.
Despite growth in mobile voice minutes and a significant in May 2009.
Capital expenditure in Europe was slightly higher than in increase in data usage, Europes overheads declined enabling the 2009 financial year as we took advantage of our strong cash commercial investment to be increased.
generation to accelerate investment in fixed and mobile broadband networks, and in services to enterprise customers.
In November we announced a further 1 billion cost saving programme to be delivered by the 2013 financial year.
This will help us to Adjusted earnings per share was 16.11 pence, lower than last year offset inflationary pressures and the competitive environment and primarily as the result of a one-off tax and associated interest benefit enable us to invest in our revenue growth opportunities.
Around half in the prior year.
Excluding this, adjusted earnings per share increased of these savings will be available for commercial reinvestment or by 6.6%.
Total dividends per share have increased by 7% to 8.31 pence with a We will continually update our programme to identify further ways in final dividend of 5.65 pence per share, up 9% reflecting the strong cash which the Group can benefit from its regional scale and further reduce performance of the Group.
costs in order to offset external pressures and competitor action and to invest in growth.
Strategy Cost reduction targets delivered a year ahead of plan.
Pursue growth opportunities in total communications Strong revenue growth from data and fixed line services.
Data revenue grew by 19.3% and is now over 4 billion.
In addition to Continued strong growth in emerging markets.
driving continued growth in PC connectivity services, we have been Enhanced shareholder returns new three year particularly successful in increasing smartphone penetration across dividend target.
our customer base and in ensuring that smartphone customers subscribed for additional data services.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 7 Annual capital expenditure 6.2bn During the financial year our active data users across the Group During the year we returned approximately 4.1 billion of free cash increased to around 50 million and within this the number of mobile flow to shareholders in the form of dividends.
The remaining free cash internet users to around 31 million.
These achievements, while flow was used to fund the Vodacom stake purchase completed in May significant, highlight the huge potential of data as we increase 2009 and spectrum purchases in Turkey, Egypt and Italy.
Net debt penetration of the remaining part of our 341 million proportionate declined to 33.3 billion primarily as a result of foreign exchange customer base.
The Group has retained a low single A credit rating.
Fixed line revenue increased by 7.9% during the year.
We now have We now expect that annual free cash flow for the Group will be between 5.6 million fixed broadband customers, an increase of around 1 million 6.0 billion and 7.0 billion using guidance foreign exchange rates for during the year.
In Europe EBITDA margins of the fixed activities the next three financial years ending 31 March 2013 reflecting the remained stable at around 14% and the business was broadly free cash successful execution of the Groups strategy and our expectations for flow neutral after capital expenditure of approximately 450 million.
improving operating free cash flow from our emerging markets and fixed line investments.
Europes enterprise revenue declined by 4.1% during the year as a consequence of the significant impact of the economic downturn on The Board is therefore targeting dividend per share growth of at least 7% 1 our enterprise customers.
In contrast Vodafone Global Enterprise, which per annum for the next three financial years ending on 31 March 2013. serves our larger enterprise customers on a Group-wide basis, had a We expect that total dividends per share will therefore be no less than good year and delivered revenue growth of around 2% demonstrating 10.18 pence for the 2013 financial year.
the strength of Vodafone services to multinational corporations.
During the year we launched fixed mobile convergent products such as Performance-driven organisation Vodafone One Net specifically for smaller and medium enterprise Significant changes have been made to the Groups internal structure, customers which will position us well for recovery in due course.
organisation and incentive systems in the last 12 months.
Head office functions and management layers have been reduced significantly, 3.
Execute in emerging markets simplifying our business processes and increasing the speed with In India we have secured the number two position in the market by which we can respond to the changing environment.
revenue despite fierce price competition stimulated by new entrants.
Indus Towers is now the worlds largest tower company with over The specific responsibilities of Group Technology, Group Marketing 100,000 towers under management.
and our local operating companies have been simplified, eliminating overlapping areas and coordination activities.
We are also shifting Vodacom increased service revenue by 4.6% and maintained its progressively into incentive schemes which emphasise reward for leadership in South Africa.
In Turkey service revenue increased by competitive performance and cash generation.
31.3% in the last quarter and 5.3% in the full year.
The turnaround 1 plan has brought the company back to growth and we now have to focus Prospects for the year ahead on continuing this momentum in the forthcoming financial year.
Adjusted operating profit of 11.2 to 12.0 billion.
Free cash flow in excess of 6.5 billion.
While we look at opportunities to expand as they are presented, we remain cautious with respect to future footprint expansion.
Our primary We expect the Group to return to organic revenue growth during the focus remains on driving results from our existing emerging markets.
2011 financial year although this will be dependent upon the strength of the economic environment and the level of unemployment within 4.
Strengthen capital discipline to drive shareholder returns Europe.
In contrast, revenue growth in other emerging economies, in Cash generation by the Group has been strong throughout the recession, particular India and Africa, is expected to continue as the Group drives reflecting significant cost reductions and the success of the Group wide penetration and data in these markets.
working capital improvement plan in its first of two years.
8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Executive summary Our strategy The key focus of our strategy is to drive free cash flow generation.
This is supported by four main objectives: drive operational performance, pursue growth opportunities in total communications, execute in emerging markets and strengthen capital discipline.
Drive operational Execute in emerging markets performance We aim to improve our performance through targeted commercial investment in high value customers, improved device portfolio In emerging markets we and cost reduction.
are focused on operational performance and driving the Progress mobile data opportunity.
Increased smartphone penetration Progress across our customer base.
Capital investment of 6.2bn to enhance our product portfolio Increasing revenue market share and network quality.
in India, Turkey and South Africa 1bn cost reduction programme during the year.
delivered a year early: a further India now has 100m customers, 1bn programme now underway.
up a record 32m during the year.
EBITDA margins are expected to decline at a significantly lower rate than Cost initiatives include: greater Returned to revenue growth in in the 2010 financial year.
This reflects the continuing benefit of the network sharing, efficiencies in Turkey driven by investment in Groups cost saving programme which is enabling us to increase customer self-service and the network, IT and distribution.
commercial activity and drive increased revenue in data and fixed line.
33% data revenue growth in Vodacom.
Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of 11.2 billion Cost savings over last two years to 12.0 billion.
Performance will be determined by actual economic Service revenue trends and the extent to which we decide to reinvest cost savings into 1bn total communications growth opportunities.
32% 2 from emerging markets Free cash flow is expected to be in excess of 6.5 billion, consistent with P ursue growth opportunities our new three year target.
in total communications Strengthen capital discipline We intend to maintain capital expenditure at a similar level to last year, adjusted for foreign exchange, ensuring that we continue to invest in high speed data networks, enhancing our customers experience and We are focused on enhancing increasing the attractiveness of the Groups data products.
returns to shareholders and have clear priorities for Summary surplus capital.
In an extremely challenging economic environment, we have improved Vodafones commercial focus and cost efficiency with Progress visible results.
We have identified three revenue growth opportunities, We have made good progress in our growth areas mobile data, 4.1bn of free cash flow used to mobile data, fixed broadband broadband and enterprise and exceeded our improved guidance, pay dividends.
and enterprise services, generating strong free cash flow of 7.2 billion.
As a result of greater Total dividends per share of 8.31 which represent our total confidence in Vodafones prospects and cash generation ability, the pence, up 7%.
Board has adopted a revised dividend policy, delivering attractive communications services.
Remaining free cash flow used 1 growth for shareholders over the next three years.
to purchase spectrum and Progress an additional 15% of Vodacom.
Economic growth remains fragile in many of our largest markets but New dividend target dividends we remain confident that our strategy is creating a stronger Vodafone.
19% data revenue growth: driven per share growth of at least 7% by PC connectivity services and over the next three years.
Fixed broadband customer base Total dividends of 5.6m, up 1m.
Vittorio Colao 2% revenue growth in Vodafone 8.31p Chief Executive Global Enterprise.
up 7% Mobile data users 50m Notes: 1 For guidance and dividend assumptions see page 37. up 135% over the year 2 Africa and Central Europe and Asia Pacific and Middle East.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 9
