04 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way Overview by Chief Executive Keith Cochrane Last year I said that the Weir Group had a superb manufacturing platform, resilient business model and enviable market position.
This remains as true today as it was then and our performance in 2010 demonstrates our ability to respond quickly and benefit from changing market conditions.
05 Group Executive pictured From left to right: Alan Mitchelson Legal & Commercial Director, Steve Noon Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director, Keith Cochrane Chief Executive, Jon Stanton Finance Director, Dean Jenkins Power & Industrial Divisional Managing Director, Scot Smith Minerals Divisional Managing Director During 2010 we continued to make good The Weir Group has been repositioned as a leading global engineering progress against our key priorities: solutions provider focused on the mining, oil and gas and power markets.
Strong management focus on health and This focus together with a growing emerging market presence and safety resulted in a 35% reduction in lost continued commitment to operational excellence has contributed to these time accidents.
We made good progress against the strategic priorities set Overall operating efficiency the Weir last year, positioning Weir to continue to deliver above market growth.
Production System Lean score continued This success is underpinned by our people and I want to recognise the to improve, this year by over five points.
excellent work being done across the Group.
Five value enhancing acquisitions were made through the year accelerating growth and I ended last years report pointing to an uncertain year ahead.
Visibility of extending our global presence.
the pace and timing of a potential recovery was limited and I highlighted Continued investment in product research the proactive action taken in 2009 to manage the impact of the economic and development: Minerals launched the next generation of downturn, ensuring the Group had the flexibility to respond, no matter the Warman WBH pump and developed demands of the economic climate.
In fact, two of our three end markets molten salt pumps for the solar market.
saw a strong recovery in 2010, ahead of our expectations.
The oil and gas Weir SPM launched the new Destiny shale markets in North America bounced back, benefiting from the frac pump.
Power & Industrial developed safety valves increasing use of hydraulic fracturing, supplemented by a move to oil and for the 4th generation nuclear reactor liquids rich shale formations.
Global mineral markets largely recovered, technology and extended its renewable driven principally by Chinas growing demand for commodities which energy offering.
in turn led to increased production volumes.
In contrast, power and Over 50m in capital expenditure to improve industrial markets remained subdued, with conventional generation new operating efficiency and extend the Groups global presence including: build activity in North America and Europe at low levels pending A new manufacturing facility in Queensland, clarification of environmental legislation.
New service centres in North and South 2010 performance America, Russia, Indonesia and Africa, including Weir SPMs first centre in Overall order input, in constant currency, was up 39% while aftermarket Brasil.
This reflected re-stocking in the first half of the year and increased activity levels in our main markets through the year.
We experienced a significant pick up in original equipment orders in the second half as equipment utilisation levels improved and customers became more confident in the outlook for their end markets.
Continuing operations Group revenues were up 12% on a constant currency basis and the Revenue proportion of revenues from aftermarket sales increased to 58% 2009: 54%, 1,635m as a result of the lower opening original equipment order book and the shorter Up 18% cycle nature of aftermarket sales.
This mix effect and a more than doubling of upstream Oil & Gas revenues had a positive impact on both operating 1 Operating profit margins and profits giving rise to a record financial performance.
309.7m We achieved some notable successes across all three divisions.
In Minerals Up 51% we saw strong progress across Asia-Pacific, Africa and South America with a number of significant contract awards and in Canada, we achieved 1 Continuing operations adjusted to exclude our largest ever single contract award to supply equipment into the oil sands intangibles amortisation market.
In upstream Oil & Gas, we gained market share in a rising North American market, driven by our responsiveness and the operational flexibility of the Weir Production System.
Power & Industrial achieved good input from the nuclear market including a contract for the provision of specialist valves on the first US nuclear new build reactors to be built in 25 years.
06 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report We delivered another strong cash performance and generated free cashflow of 79.9m after investment to support the growth of the business.
Our balance sheet has also been strengthened by the issue of long term debt and by the extension of our core banking facilities out to 2014.
The Group has substantial financial headroom to support organic development and expand its presence across target markets.
These increased activity levels required us to invest across the Group: we added over 1100 employees through organic growth, research and development spend was increased 53% to 14.8m and we invested 3-fold strategy 50.9m in capital expenditure, including construction of the new Multiflo manufacturing facility in Queensland, Australia.
INNOVATIVE Group strategy 1 SOLUTIONS We will continue to extend the Groups position in the minerals, oil and gas and power sectors, all of which are high growth, long cycle markets with positive fundamentals.
This strategy is underpinned by our three COLLABORATIVE pillars of Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability and will be 2 MINDSET delivered through sustainable organic growth supplemented by skillfully integrated, targeted acquisitions.
We will continue to invest in technology, infrastructure and people to grow market share and our installed base of GLOBAL original equipment.
This in turn provides recurring aftermarket opportunities CAPABILITY 3 and exposure to both customers capital and operating expenditure.
We will broaden our competitive portfolio of products and added-value services, with the emphasis on those products that will provide a strong stream of aftermarket opportunities.
Driving growth Good progress has been made in developing our three strategic pillars, new product initiatives are underway in each division and the benefits of 1 greater cross divisional collaboration are already evident.
Over the past Earnings per share two years around 40% of our revenue has been generated from emerging 100.4p 110 markets and we expect to see this continue to grow in 2011.
100 90 80 64.1p These actions are underpinned by our ongoing focus on operational 70 59.3p 60 excellence and the development of functional initiatives.
Examples include 50 40 the full roll out of the Net Promoter Score customer survey methodology, 30 increased engineering resources and the development of Group-wide IT 20 10 and procurement strategies.
We have also renewed our focus on talent 2008 2009 2010 management establishing a broad based 300-strong Senior Management 1 Group, a consolidated and refreshed graduate recruitment programme Continuing operations adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation and a new learning and development framework.
Our growth plans have also been supported by a number of complementary acquisitions and alliances which broaden our product portfolio and strengthen our global footprint and growth prospects, particularly in emerging markets.
During the year, PCS Australia, Linatex Malaysia, BDK India, American Hydro US and YES Spain joined the Group adding annualised revenues of 151m and operating profits of 15.5m and the integration of each is progressing well.
We also established joint ventures and alliances with partners including KHD Germany, MHI Japan and Shengli Highland China.
07 Our priorities for 2011 are to continue to drive operational excellence and focus on our three strategic pillars for growth alongside key functional initiatives.
We will strengthen our competitive position and grow faster than our markets by: Continuing to drive growth through innovation and creativity with further investment in extending our product development capabilities.
At the same time, we will look to take our product portfolio to new markets and customers as we seek to build market presence.
Around the world Building on growing cross divisional collaboration to extend best practice Top Keith Cochrane standing right at and sell our full portfolio of products in all markets as well as extend our the opening of Weir Multiflos new facility service footprint to achieve closer customer relationships.
Our recently in Queensland, Australia with, from left, local Federal Member of Parliament, Alex established joint ventures and third party alliances extend our capabilities Somlyay, Rob Brown, regional managing and geographic presence and provide a platform for further growth.
director Minerals Asia Pacific with Paul Avey, managing director, Weir Minerals Multiflo Capitalising and extending the Groups global reach and capabilities to standing on the pump skid support customer needs, reinforce our global competitiveness and open Bottom Keith Cochrane arrives for the new markets for existing products and services.
agreement signing with Loftyman Engineering aimed at growing Weir control valves market We will complete the integration of our recent acquisitions and add position in China resources where necessary to secure growth.
Specifically, we will significantly increase manufacturing and service capacity at Weir SPMs Fort Worth plant with a planned investment of US$40m over 18 months and develop Weir BDKs manufacturing capabilities in India.
This will enable each business to further benefit from opportunities in their fast growing markets.
Outlook The Group is well placed to benefit from the medium term growth prospects of each of our principal end markets: Growing demand for minerals, oil and gas and power is being driven by population growth and the industrialisation of developing economies such as India, China and Brasil.
In North America, as conventional resources are exhausted, the proportion of oil and gas sourced from unconventional sources continues to grow with a number of other international markets now also emerging.
Ageing power plants and growing environmental concerns will accelerate the demand for new plant or alternative forms of energy, in both the developed and developing world.
The Group enters 2011 in excellent financial health, with a record order book, a clear strategy and plans to drive future growth.
We are confident we will deliver further good progress.
Over the medium term, the Group is well placed.
It has strong positions in three growing sectors with positive medium term fundamentals and an emerging markets bias.
It also has a resilient business model that focuses on the sale of original equipment products to provide a growing installed base for more profitable and resilient aftermarket sales.
The Group is well on track to deliver on its ambition to double 2009 profits by 2014.
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 8 March 2011
