6 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review Chief Executive Whitbread outperformed its markets and increased profits in 2009 10, despite the challenging economic backdrop.
Whitbread has performed strongly in the most challenging hotel and restaurant trading conditions for a generation.
Underlying profits have been increased by virtue of outperforming our markets and improving operating efficiency.
We have achieved a significant reduction in net debt while, at the same time, increasing the number of new sites acquired for our future development.
Group underlying profit before tax increased by 6.6% to 239.1million 2008 09: 224.4 million, with underlying earnings per share diluted increasing by 6.7% to Alan Parker, CBE 96.7p.
We achieved our three stated Chief Executive, Whitbread PLC priorities: to outperform the market: to reduce operating costs: and to achieve cash flow neutrality.
The fundamentals of Group revenue grew year on year by 7.5% to 1,435.0 million, driven Whitbread are strong and by the growth in the number of hotels, restaurants and coffee shops provide a firm foundation despite a modest decline in like for like sales of 0.5%.
At Premier Inn, for sustained profitable sales rose 4.7%, with like for like sales declining 4.3%.
Sales at our growth in both the short restaurants rose 1.3%, with like for like sales up 1.7%.
At Costa, sales and medium term.
increased by 23.4%, with like for like sales up 5.5%.
Trading in the first half of the year was impacted by the challenging operational environment, but this improved in the second half.
In the last quarter of 2009 10 all our businesses demonstrated positive momentum with Group like for like sales growth of 3.1%.
7 One of our new solus sites on Citadel Way in Hull At the year end, net debt was Our restaurants have continued Looking ahead: building market share reduced by 109.7 million to 513.4 to achieve like for like growth, Growth from a relentless focus on million compared to 623.1 million consistently outperforming the our customers last year.
Customers have been Premier Inn growing like for like attracted to the great value for occupancy back to 80%.
The Board recommends a final money food and drink, offered in Restaurants driving a value dividend payment of 28.35p per well-maintained environments.
share, making a total dividend for Costa market innovation to the year of 38.0p per share.
The Costa has seen 32 consecutive strengthen leading position.
final dividend will be paid on 14 July quarters of like for like sales growth.
2010 to shareholders on the register Costa achieved a 59.5% increase in Improving momentum during the year at the close of business on 14 May pre exceptional operating profit in was seen from our engines of growth: 2010.
A scrip dividend alternative 2009 10 and grew like for like sales Premier Inn, with its restaurant joint will again be offered.
The key drivers behind this site model: and Costa, the great outstanding performance are Costas food and beverage success story, Successfully achieving our three clear position as the coffee lovers both at home and internationally.
key priorities preferred brand and our continued There are significant further growth Whitbread is a focused hospitality expansion in the UK and overseas.
opportunities across all our brands company with brand leadership in by building brand preference and attractive, value for money sectors.
Reducing operating costs from outlet expansion.
We will In 2009 10 we set out a clear We have reduced overheads leverage these opportunities using action plan with three priorities by streamlining management, a sophisticated approach towards to manage through the downturn.
improving the efficiency of understanding our customers.
We have successfully achieved all our back-office processes and these priorities and have become delivering a series of procurement In 2009 10 we set out a commercial a stronger, more competitive and initiatives.
As we expand our action plan for Hotels and Restaurants, efficient business.
outlet numbers, we have been able to build on our competitive edge for to offer over 1,200 new jobs for the business market and to attract 1.
Outperforming the market frontline employees.
We put Premier Inn outperformed its in place four key levers: focused competitors during 2009 10.
Achieving cash flow neutrality advertising: increased sales activity: revpar was down 6.4% during the We have exceeded our cash Premier Offers: and widening year, compared to a decline of 8.5% in flow targets by 109.7 million.
This work will the regional budget hotel sector and Tight management of working continue during the course of 2010 11 a decline of 9.6% across the whole capital, lower capital spend and as we make an additional 8 million regional hotel market.
We set out a rescheduled payments to the marketing investment and realise the commercial action plan to reinforce pension fund have all contributed full benefits of dynamic pricing.
our status as the preferred hotel to the improved position.
Net brand for corporate travellers and to debt at the year end has therefore Our value for money restaurants attract more leisure customers.
We reduced to 513.4 million 2008 09: have never been more relevant to are pleased to report good progress 623.1 million.
The Groups total todays family dining needs.
debt facilities currently stand at established meal deal offers, such as 1,155 million and provide ample two meals for 9 at Brewers Fayre, headroom for the future.
have achieved significant success and now over a quarter of all diners take up these attractively priced menu options.
co. uk 8 Annual Report 2009 10 Our customers can kick-start their day with one of our delicious breakfasts made from great quality ingredients At Costa, our fundamental This pipeline underpins our stated have set targets for CO reduction, 2 proposition is the quality of our hand strategy to expand Premier Inn to sustainable sourcing and waste made coffee, served in a welcoming 55,000 rooms in the UK by the end management.
We will open the UKs environment.
In 2010 11 the target opening first totally new build green hotel and success was our breakthrough schedule is 29 new Premier Inns restaurant in the autumn.
We have marketing campaign derived from over 2,500 rooms, which include also reaffirmed our commitment to independent customer research ten new restaurants on joint sites.
offer career enhancement to our showing 7 out of 10 coffee lovers people through apprenticeships and preferred Costas cappuccino.
Costa Costa is the UKs largest coffee shop professional skills attainment.
We also used its understanding of brand, and has grown to become aim to lead the hospitality sector customer preference to introduce the second largest international towards a more sustainable way of the new Flat White coffee, which coffee shop business with 1,600 working and create an important has been an excellent contributor to stores worldwide.
In the UK, we differentiator, valued by our incremental sales since its launch in plan to open around 130 stores customers, in the future.
At the start of the new during 2010 11.
This growth includes financial year Costa launched a new opening in new high street locations, Current trading and outlook points-based loyalty card which has adding stores in established retail We are confident we have the exceeded initial targets.
outlets, such as our partnership right hospitality brands, positioned with Tesco, and bringing the to offer value for money in Expanding our network Costa experience to hospitals attractive, underpenetrated and We have clear short and medium and universities.
growing segments of the market.
term growth plans: The fundamentals of Whitbread Premier Inn to increase room Our international business will are strong and provide a firm numbers in 2010 11 by over 2,500 be the focus of the next phase of foundation for sustained profitable rooms 6% and target a 32% Costas growth, boosted by the growth in both the short and increase to 55,000 rooms in the acquisition of Coffeeheaven.
This growth will be UK by the end of 2014 15, as well transaction completed in the last delivered through our expansion as international expansion: and quarter of 2009 10 and added 89 plans as well as by relentlessly Costa to increase store numbers new stores in the important Central focusing on meeting the needs of in 2010 11 by net 250 stores European region.
Costa plans to our customers.
While the level of 16% and target an 88% increase overseas outlet numbers economic recovery remains unclear, increase to 3,000 stores by by around 120 stores during 2010 11 the first seven weeks of the financial 2014 15, maintaining market in the key target markets of China, year have started well, with positive leadership in the UK and building India, Russia, the Middle East and momentum across the business.
five key overseas businesses: in Central Europe.
China, India, Russia, the Middle Leading Whitbread East and Central Europe.
Good Together corporate As you know, I announced in March responsibility programme this year that I will retire from We benefit from our robust balance Whitbread has always put a high the Company in November 2010. sheet and strong freehold asset value on being a responsible When I became Chief Executive of base.
We have grown our secured business.
In January 2010 we Whitbread in June 2004, Whitbread future pipeline of hotel sites to launched Good Together, the was a very different company.
We 10,000 rooms by taking advantage umbrella programme for companyhad ten businesses, including David of the reduced property market wide initiatives to drive sustainable Lloyd Leisure and a number of prices.
performance and further deepen brands that we didnt own such as our corporate responsibility.
We T. G. I. Fridays, Pizza Hut and Marriott.
9 Cash returned We are confident we have the right to shareholders 2bn hospitality brands, positioned to TSR offer value for money in attractive, 134% underpenetrated and growing EPS growth segments of the market.
76% Improvement in ROCE 25% Progress since 2004 Six years on we are the UKs I was very pleased when Andy Structural transformation largest hotel and restaurant group accepted the role and I am 2003 04 profit focused on our joint site Premier confident that he will be an 7% Inn and restaurant model and the outstanding Chief Executive for 15% 3% 2% extremely successful Costa brand.
I would like to take 1% In 2004 we had 302 budget hotels this opportunity to wish Andy under the Travel Inn name and less and everyone at Whitbread than 19,000 rooms.
Today we have every success for the future.
over 42,000 rooms in 588 Premier In the meantime, I am looking 20% Inn hotels.
The growth of Costa forward to the coming six months 23% during the last six years has been or so and to continuing the exceptional and the 1,600 stores Whitbread Way Forward.
we have today compares to 346 in 2004.
Costa is now the largest 3% coffee shop business in the UK and 7% the second largest international 19% coffee shop business.
Ten business units Whilst continuing to expand our Marriott Maredo Premier Inn and Costa businesses Alan Parker in the UK, we have also started Chief Executive David Lloyd Leisure Premier Inn to exploit opportunities overseas.
Britvic Beefeater We now have hotels operating in 28 April 2010 the Middle East and India and Costa T. G. I. Fridays Brewers Fayre stores can be found in 24 different Pizza Hut UK Costa countries.
I am very proud of the progress that has been made to make the Company what it is today.
2009 10 profit I am delighted that we have 13% been able to deliver excellent results for our shareholders, with 2billion returned to date, whilst transforming the Company.
This would not have been possible without the fantastic support of Whitbreads people.
It has been a 87% privilege to work alongside such a committed group of people throughout the organisation and Id like to thank all of them for their continuing contribution to the Company.
Hotels and Restaurants When I retire, I will be handing over the reins to Andy Harrison.
