Chief Executives review Our objective is to maximise shareholder value through delivering profitable growth in our chosen markets.
New monthly Change in like-for-like reporting processes and regular business revenue reviews with country management teams ensure that all of us arefocused on the 6.0% rightpriorities.
Our objective for each business unit strategy Gross margin isto grow profitably faster than our competition.
Our business is local in the sense that the majority of our 1 million customers travel less 27.7% than 20 miles to reach a branch.
Our aim is therefore to gain a greater share of our existing Trading margin customers business in every branch and to gainnew customers by providing them with Operations, processes andpeople thebest local customer service, delivered by 3.4% A year ago I outlined in this review what I felt thebest branch staff in the industry and by were the inherent strengths of the Wolseley partnering with the key vendors in the industry.
During the past Operating cash ow Underpinning this we want to operate a low cost 12months, I have undertaken a thorough efficient operating model, which ensures we are evaluation of our operations and processes.
competitive and can attract favourable terms 705m Everything I have seen has reinforced my view from our vendors.
that this is essentially a great business with a We have now completed the top down resource fundamentally sound business model.
We have allocation process, so we are clear which strong market leading positions in our core business units we want to drive for faster growth markets.
The quality of our front line people and in short, those where we believe we can win, their dedication to our customers is impressive.
Were now building and We have built significant businesses over time executing the individual business unit strategies and in many geographies, which have good and three year plans.
I believe that the progress records of serving our customers well, backed we have made this year, which you can read by strong relationships with key vendors, about on pages 6 to 9, represents a decent talented people and an efficient operating start and there is still much to be done.
These factors should enable us to leverage our scale and expertise to generate organic growth in the future.
It is also testament Overview of performance to the strength of the business model that During the year Wolseley experienced a overmany years gross margins have remained gradualstabilisation in its markets.
The repair, broadly consistent, even during the recent maintenance and improvement RMI deeprecession.
segmenthas held up better than the new construction markets and many of our Business strategy customers have changed their focus to the RMImarkets.
However, the new construction Between July 2009 and March 2010 the markets remain weak, especially in the Companys Executive Committee developed US, andcommercial markets in particular anoperating framework to deliver sustainable remain depressed.
This relative stabilisation and profitable growth see diagram opposite.
ofour markets led to a decent second half Ourapproach is based on a top down resource performance and a return tomodest like-for-like allocation process, to allow us to choose which growth in the final quarter.
We also focused on businesses will give us the best returns in the protecting gross margins and carefully managing long term.
In addition, we have also developed the cost base.
Revenue of 13,203 million was bottom up detailed business unit strategies to 9per cent below last year, though the decline make sure we invest in the right projects and was restricted to 6 per cent on a like-for-like plans to deliver our future growth at a local level.
The gross margin at 27.7 per cent was To assist this I have dismantled the divisional consistent with last year and we continue to structure around North America and Europe so focus on improving customer and product mix.
that we have greater visibility of the underlying 04 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Trading profit of 450 million was 3 million forsale gave rise to anexceptional loss of ahead of last year, despite the revenue decline 57million inthe period which has been and was achieved as the result of the improved recorded as an exceptional item.
Operating costs in the year excluding yearend we have also disposed of Brandon exceptional items were reduced by 353 million Hirein the UK.
Summary During the year we continued to manage the balance sheet conservatively.
Cash was tightly 2010 has been a challenging year for Wolseley, controlled, but not at the expense of damaging especially given the prevailing market conditions, customer service, and capital expenditure was against which we can benchmark our future reduced to 84 million 2009: 157 million.
Good progress was made Wecontinue to place a great deal of emphasis oncustomer service, vendor management, on driving good cash generation, with a improving the development of our people and particular focus on working capital discipline.
driving a more efficient operating platform.
Operating cash ow continued tobe strong at Bystepping up the intensity with which we 705 million.
As a result net debt, at31July manage the performance of the businesses, 2010 was reduced to 346 million compared especially theones with strong growth potential with 959 million at 31 July 2009.
Weare now and those which generate synergies, we are placing a much greater emphasis on driving wellplaced todeliver profitable growth and across-the-year improvements and we aim to ultimately create sustainable shareholder value.
deliver better month-on-month cash ow Our shareholders, employees, customers and performance in theyear ahead.
vendors have given strong support to Wolseley this year and I thank them for their trust, patience Restructuring and disposals and loyalty.
We have started to deliver on our plans for the business and we have much to do, In the year ended 31 July 2010, the Group but I am confident that we are in much better continued to take restructuring actions to shape for the future even inthese volatile lowerthe cost base and incurred exceptional marketconditions.
During the year we disposed of Wolseleys activities in Ireland, the Czech, Belgian and Slovakian plumbing and heating businesses, Friosol asmall Swiss refrigerant distribution business and the Public Works business in France.
Intheyear ended 31 July 2010 these Ian Meakins businesses generated revenues of 95 million Group Chief Executive and 7 million of trading losses.
The businesses disposed in the year and businesses held See pages 6-7 for further details on Value Creation model Wolseleys resource allocation strategy 33 See pages 6 9 Operational Strategy performance In March, we introduced a value creation model which See pages 8-9 combines top down resource for further details on allocation with bottom up driving operational performance business unit strategies.
Thisis outlined in more detail in the following pages.
Resource Business unit Within Crossallocation strategies business unit business unit profitable growth Wolseley plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
