22 Chief Executives review Once again I am delighted to report excellent results for the Group.
We have delivered profits significantly ahead of last year with a Group operating margin of 8.7% whilst retaining our secure financial position and strong cash generative profile.
Our future is supported by a record order book of 8.3 billion and embedded relationships with our key customers provide us with long-term visibility of future work streams.
Financial highlights Revenue for the year has remained flat at 1.9 billion 2009: 1.9 billion with strong growth in Marine and Defence reducing the impact of lower revenue in Rail and Engineering and Plant.
Operating profit increased by 11% to 164.2 million 2009: 147.3 million and profit before tax has grown by 20% to 145.3 million 2009: 120.9 million.
As a result of our focus on delivering and sharing efficiency gains with our customers and Group operating margin has increased to 8.7% 2009: 7.7%.
Growing our business During this year we have continued to strengthen and grow our business overall, using the extensive knowledge and experience we have built up within our operations.
In many instances our customers rely on our skills and expertise to deliver complex through-life support programmes.
We have been seeking to broaden the range of services we provide them or extend the length or scope of existing contracts.
We believe we are well placed in markets with significant growth potential.
Peter Rogers Chief Executive Business review Babcock International Group PLC 23 Chief Executives review Central to our business model is our capacity to work in close Health and safety partnership with our customers.
Through this we have been Health and safety continues to be a major priority across our able to establish and build an excellent reputation for operations.
We have seen some further progress in reducing delivering financially efficient solutions at the same time as our incident rate but we still have more to achieve if we are delivering the operational efficiencies they require.
We believe to reach our ultimate goal of an accident-free Babcock.
As we this reputation will provide a number of opportunities across welcome new employees and businesses into the Group I want the Group as the current economic climate and pressure on them to know that I am committed to ensuring we provide budgets leads to an increased level of outsourcing in both the an environment where safety is always the number one priority.
Order book The strength of our business today has been achieved through our strategy of growth and positioning in our chosen markets.
Following signature of the Terms of Business Agreement ToBA, This has been achieved through organic growth as well as the Groups order book increased by 2.6 billion to around through acquisition.
Since 2001 we have successfully acquired 8.3 billion.
Throughout the year there has been no change to and integrated nine businesses, the last of which was UKAEA the anticipated level of work coming through to our operating Ltd, completed in October 2009, which has enhanced our divisions, with a steady flow of contracts from the bid pipeline existing and well established position in the nuclear market.
We have had no contracts cancelled.
Building on the scale of our knowledge and expertise in the The strength of the order book supported by a healthy bid UK, we believe there are a number of opportunities for us in pipeline provides the Group with excellent long-term visibility new overseas markets where our business model and and security.
This year we have successfully expanded our operations in Canada and Australia and have Outlook opened a new office in Abu Dhabi as a first step into the We consider the major markets in which we operate remain Middle East.
attractive with significant long-term growth prospects.
We believe that our strong market positions and our track record On 23 March 2010 we announced the recommended of delivering efficiencies for our customers will be beneficial as acquisition of VT Group plc for 1.3 billion.
This will be a major pressure on public spending increases.
We are confident that acquisition for Babcock but one which we believe has a clear the proposed acquisition of VT Group will further strengthen and compelling strategic logic.
VT is a high quality business our scale and capabilities in our core markets.
with similar culture, engineering based skills and experience to our own, and in addition, they have comparable markets and We believe the outlook for the 2010 11 financial year customers.
If the acquisition is approved by shareholders, we remains positive and we look forward to another year firmly believe that the enhanced capabilities of the combined of excellent progress.
Group will enable us to increase opportunities to create value for our shareholders and customers, building on the successful growth strategy we have executed in recent years.
