Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 9 Chief Executives report developing economies.
EBITDA rose to $10.4 billion and attributable profit increased by 86% to $5.2 billion or $1.77 on a per share basis.
Xstrata is in the midst Further improvements to value and quality of a fundamental of portfolio One of the defining features of Xstrata today is the significant transformation through improvement in the quality of our portfolio brought about by our operating teams over the last nine years.
the development of our Year-on-year cost savings have become a hallmark of our operational performance and a key indicator of the steady improvement in the organic growth pipeline competitiveness and value of our operations.
At the end of 2010, our teams had realised a record $541 million of cost savings in real Mick Davis terms, representing 3.4% of the operating cost base.
Consistent Chief Executive annual cost savings at each reporting period since our IPO nine years ago have transformed the cost competitiveness of our commodity businesses, each of which is now positioned in the lower half of its respective industry cost curve.
On average, Xstrata has trimmed operating costs by 1.5% per annum since 2003.
Our extensive organic growth programme currently underway is progressively bringing about another step change in cost competitiveness over the next three years.
Our businesses once again successfully expanded our resource base to preserve or enhance the longevity and value of our operations.
A substantial increase to copper mineral resources was announced at the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile in July, bringing the total estimated mineral resource to 7.1 billion tonnes of copper at an average grade of 0.82% copper.
This represents 58 million tonnes of contained copper metal, underpinning the potential to expand Collahuasi into a one million tonnes per annum producer.
Significant copper resource upgrades were also achieved at the Antapaccay project in Peru, the El Pachn project in Argentina, the Frieda River project in Papua New Guinea and at the Las Bambas project in Peru during the year, providing a solid base for our development plans at each of these projects.
In February 2011, we announced a further A strong operational performance in 2010 contributed to an substantial increase in mineral resources at the Frieda River project exciting year for Xstrata.
We made substantial progress in in Papua New Guinea, more than doubling measured and indicated bringing a number of our organic growth projects into resources over the previously published estimate.
production and advanced the development of both late and early stage opportunities in our pipeline.
Three major new Strong operational performance in 2010 mines were successfully commissioned during the year, adding In 2010, Xstrata achieved record production of coking coal and nickel low cost coal and nickel production from Goedgevonden, while volumes of mined copper, chrome and lead in concentrate rose Blakefield South and Nickel Rim South.
A further 10 projects compared to the previous year.
Xstrata Zinc Australia and Xstrata were approved and are now in implementation, while a range Nickel delivered on the promise of increased volumes and reduced of earlier stage opportunities continued to progress through operating costs, a direct result of the restructurings undertaken in late pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Indeed, every one of Xstratas commodity businesses reported real unit cost savings compared to the prior year as lower The opportunities seized during the difficult market conditions of cost production was commissioned and initiatives to improve 2009 to restructure higher cost businesses, improve productivity and productivity took effect.
strengthen the balance sheet, together with ongoing initiatives to improve the quality and value of our underlying business, positioned At Xstrata Zinc, recent capital-efficient expansions at Mount Isa Xstrata to benefit from a more favourable operating environment in and McArthur River Mine delivered a 10% increase in volumes 2010.
Average commodity prices rose substantially over the prior from the Australian zinc operations and further reduced unit costs.
year, reflecting improved market sentiment, particularly in the second Operational productivity improvements across our zinc operations half, as macro-economic concerns over European sovereign debt contributed $208 million to operating profit in 2010, including issues eased and strong physical demand emanated from the $163 million of sustainable cost savings.
In total, Xstrata Zinc C1 | 10 Business review: overview Chief Executives report continued cash costs on an integrated mine and smelter basis have been delivered $181 million of real cost savings, primarily due to a 44% reduced by 40% over the last two years from 50.8 per pound increase in production from the Oaky Creek complex, a reduced strip in 2008 to less than 31 per pound at the end of 2010.
This is ratio and cost savings initiatives at Cerrejn, and the successful a remarkable achievement, attained despite the significant, commissioning of the new Goedgevonden open cut mine in unfavourable headwind of a weakening US dollar against producer South Africa.
A feasibility study into a further expansion of McArthur Xstrata Copper continued to offset successfully the significant River Mine aims to reduce operating costs by a further 20% and is cost impact of lower grades at some of the older operations and expected to be tabled for approval this year.
The overall cost profile of the business Xstrata Nickel also starts 2011 in a superior position following the also benefited from the permanent closure in May of the Kidd restructurings undertaken in 2008 and 2009 to close high cost, end Metallurgical site in Canada.
In total, net cost savings of $52 million of life operations while continuing to invest in the development of were achieved, despite a $47 million cost impact from lower grades.
new, low cost production from Nickel Rim South and Koniambo.
The This is a highly creditable cost performance which enabled C1 cash world-class Nickel Rim South operation reached nameplate capacity costs to be reduced to 89.4 per pound.
The substantial increases six months ahead of schedule in October and, together with the in copper resources announced during the year bring Xstratas total reopening of the Fraser Mine and further expansions at Raglan and estimated in-situ copper resources to almost 90 million tonnes, Xstrata Nickels Australian mines, enabled Xstrata Nickel to achieve supporting our industry-leading copper growth pipeline of projects record mined and refined nickel production in 2010, despite the that will increase copper production by over 50% in the next three closure of a number of higher cost operations in 2009.
C1 cash costs years, with significant further growth potential thereafter from have been dramatically reduced from a starting position amongst the earlier stage projects.
higher cost producers in the industry of over $5 per pound in 2008 At Xstrata Alloys, a recovery in market conditions together with our to a sustainable cost position towards the lower end of the second strategy to retain skilled employees throughout the downturn quartile of the industry cost curve today.
In 2010, C1 costs were enabled the efficient restart of idled capacity, increasing chrome reduced ahead of expectations to $2.16 per pound, thanks to production by just under 50%.
Initiatives to improve energy the significant by-product credits generated by Nickel Rim South.
efficiency at our smelters and to reduce the amount of higher priced The Falcondo operation in the Dominican Republic will resume coking coal required in the furnaces further reduced operating costs, production profitably at a reduced rate of approximately 50% of full offsetting some of the cost pressures attributable to the persistently capacity during the first quarter, further benefiting volumes, while strong South African rand against the US dollar which has continued we continue to work towards the permanent conversion of the into 2011 and the significant rise in the cost of electricity.
operations fuel source to convert Falcondo into a sustainable, lower cost producer.
Safety and environmental performance are equally important indicators of management and operational performance.
In 2010, Xstrata Coals operations encountered adverse weather conditions Xstrata plc was recognised as the industry leader in the Dow Jones in the early part of the year and again from December, including Sustainability Index for the fourth consecutive year, and for the first unprecedented flooding in Queensland.
While the full impact on time all managed operations achieved our target of operating production in 2011 is being assessed and depends in part on the without any moderate or more serious category three or above speed of recovery in the logistics chain and future rainfall, current environmental incidents.
Our businesses also continued to make spot prices have responded to the inevitable supply constraints.
good progress in reducing the frequency of all injuries sustained, Excluding the impact of difficult weather conditions across its reducing the rate of total recordable injuries, including contractors, portfolio and protracted strike action at Tahmoor, Xstrata Coal by 20% year-on-year to seven per million hours worked, a 79% improvement over the last eight years.
While we should justifiably be proud of this ongoing improvement in injury rates, the greatest Operating EBITDA challenge we face is in eliminating fatalities from our business.
We $bn did not achieve our goal in 2010 and three people lost their lives at managed operations.
Already in 2011, four fatalities have occurred at Xstrata operations.
Every Xstrata employee or contractor has the 15 rightful expectation that they will arrive and leave work in good health and free of injury and I am deeply saddened by this loss of 10 10.9 life.
My management team and I are resolved that we will do 10.4 9.6 everything in our power to address the underlying causes of any 7.0 5 6.8 critical or near-miss incidents at our operations, with the ultimate objective of operating without harm to our people.
com 11 net debt to net debt plus equity basis compared to 26% at the end Group safety performance TRIFR Total recordable injury of 2009, despite total capital expenditure of $6.1 billion, including frequency rate per million hours worked LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate $4.3 billion of expansionary capital.
As Xstrata progressively commits to the substantial capital required over the next several years to deliver growth from the portfolio, 35 financial flexibility becomes increasingly important.
In 2010, our bank facilities were extended through a $4 billion syndicated loan 30 on favourable terms including the removal of financial covenants 25 from our lending agreements.
With increased headroom of some $8.7 billion, a stable investment grade credit rating and ongoing 20 strong cash generation from our operations, I am comfortable that Xstrata is well positioned to meet the capital requirements of our 15 79% extensive growth ambitions, while preserving sufficient flexibility improvement 10 to identify and rapidly act on opportunities to create further value, should they arise.
84% 5 improvement Delivering the next transformation of Xstrata 0 Xstrata is now in the midst of a fundamental transformation of our 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 portfolio through the development of our organic growth pipeline.
Organic growth is not new for Xstrata our teams have already successfully delivered 14 new or expanded mines, alongside the Entry into iron ore higher profile acquisitions that were a vital element of the Groups Just over a year ago, we took a first step towards our medium-term initial stages of transformation.
Nonetheless, the scale and number goal of building a substantial iron ore business.
In November 2009, of projects being developed by our teams today represent a step Xstrata obtained an option to acquire a stake in the early stage change in our growth strategy and will transform Xstratas volumes Zanaga iron ore project in the Republic of Congo, where a preand unit costs profoundly.
feasibility study is currently underway.
As announced in February By the end of 2014, volumes will be increased by 50% over 2009 2011, Xstrata has agreed to exercise its option to acquire a 50% plus production and the introduction of lower cost capacity is anticipated one share interest in Jumelles, the owner of the Zanaga project and a to deliver a reduction of over 20% in average operating costs.
I subsidiary of Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited, in exchange for expect our approved and near-term projects to deliver an average funding a feasibility study.
return of around 22% predicated on conservative long-run In August 2010, Xstrata announced an agreed offer to acquire commodity prices.
Sphere Minerals, an Australian-listed junior mining company with Momentum in delivering growth from our portfolio gathered pace three iron ore projects in Mauritania, a country with an established during the year, with the delivery of three major projects and the history of iron ore exports.
The projects include potential near-term approval of $10 billion of growth projects during 2010.
In total, production from the Askaf project and longer-term growth potential 20 major expansions or new mines are currently in construction, from the large-scale Guelb El Aouj project, which will provide representing total capital expenditure of $18 billion, of which exposure to the attractive iron ore market, further diversifying $14 billion remains to be spent.
We are now entering into the most Xstratas portfolio.
Xstrata currently owns in excess of 75% of the intensive phase of our organic growth programme to date.
This year, company and integration of the Sphere operations into Xstrata is activity will ramp up further with five projects due to commence well advanced.
These projects are currently managed through our production in 2011.
A further $7.5 billion of capital projects will coal business, sharing the substantial expertise available in bulk reach the approval stage during the course of this year.
mining, successful project development and logistics.
The eight million tonnes per annum Mangoola thermal coal project Robust financial position further strengthened in Australia is on budget and ahead of schedule to commission its in 2010 coal handling and preparation plant in the first half of 2011, Strong cash generation from our operations of just under $10 billion together with the Newlands underground extension that will add contributed to a significantly improved balance sheet.
In addition, three million tonnes per annum of thermal coal at full production.
Glencore International AG exercised its option to acquire the Prodeco The ATCOM East thermal coal mine in South Africa will also coal operations in the first half of 2010, providing a cash inflow of commence production in the latter part of the year, ramping up $2.25 billion plus the net balance of earnings and cash invested in to four million tonnes of saleable production per annum.
the operation by Xstrata an annualised return of around 25% over Construction commenced on the $1.3 billion Ulan West and the original purchase price.
Consequently, net debt was reduced by $1.4 billion Ravensworth North coal projects following their approval 38% compared to 2009 to $7.6 billion.
Gearing fell to 15% on a | 12 Business review: overview Chief Executives report continued production in 2014.
During 2010, the project achieved a number of Xstrata project pipeline key milestones, including the completion of dredging for the port, capital expenditure construction of the power station stack and the successful construction and delivery of the modules required to construct the metallurgical complex from the engineering yard in China.
All modules had been installed by January 2011.
On-site construction of the metallurgical facility and power station is currently underway and will be complete in the early part of next year, to allow testing and $14bn commissioning to commence.
The project is now entering its peak 20 major approved construction phase with some 3,500 employees and contractors projects in implementation currently on-site.
The expansion of George Fisher zinc-lead mine will increase $7.5bn production by 29% to 4.5 million tonnes of ore per annum and the 14 major projects with near-term approval Black Star Deeps projects will extend the life of the operation to 2016.
Both projects were approved during 2010 and, together with $1.3bn feasibility studies into an expansion of the Handlebar Hill mine and Feasibility and scoping the development of the high-grade Lady Loretta deposit, aim to exploit Xstratas extensive zinc resource base at Mount Isa, the largest zinc resource in the world.
during the year, to deliver 6.7 million tonnes of thermal coal from 2014 and eight million tonnes of thermal and semi-soft coking coal Zinc-lead resources at Xstratas McArthur River mine are the third from 2012 respectively.
largest in the world and a project to double current production at McArthur River Mine is due for approval this year.
The project Xstrata Copper now has five major projects in construction to involves a 15-year extension to the current mine life at the expanded deliver a 50% increase in copper volumes by the end of 2014. production rate, and envisages the application of Xstratas proprietary The $1.47 billion Antapaccay expansion to the Tintaya copper mine hydrometallurgical technology to enable bulk concentrates to be in southern Peru was approved in July 2010 as part of an integrated processed at one or more of Xstratas smelters.
In Canada, the regional strategy to progressively increase copper production from Bracemac-McLeod project to replace Perseverance mine was southern Peru to 500,000 tonnes by the end of 2014.
In the six approved in July and initiatives continue to extend the life of the months since the project was approved, facilities for the construction Brunswick operations.
camp have been completed to accommodate the current 1,600 workers on site, increasing to 4,500 people by the end of 2011.
The Initial production is expected from the western decline shaft of the on-site construction for the foundations of the crusher and the three Eland underground platinum operation during the first quarter of large grinding mills is progressing on schedule and all the major this year, followed by initial production from the eastern decline in components for the mills are already in Peru, ready to be installed.
Once Eland reaches full production towards the Commissioning is on track for the second half of 2012.
The end of 2015, production of platinum will double to 300,000 ounces successful execution of Antapaccay lays the foundations for the per annum.
A second phase expansion to the Lion ferrochrome greenfield $4.2 billion Las Bambas project, also approved during the smelting complex in South Africa is underway, using proprietary year.
Las Bambas will share key infrastructure with Antapaccay, energy-efficient technology, while construction of the Tswelopele achieving operational and capital synergies and enabling skills to be mega-pelletizing plant is well advanced to further improve operating transferred on completion of the Antapaccay project to the efficiency and reduce costs.
Work on earlier stage growth projects is equally significant.
The next The $1.3 billion expansion to the Antamina copper-zinc operation in generation of projects to replenish our pipeline is currently in the Peru to increase capacity to 130,000 tonnes per day is on track to feasibility or scoping stage and offers the potential to deliver sustained commence commissioning at the end of this year, while an volume growth once the current suite of projects reach full production.
expansion to the Lomas Bayas operation is progressing well to Capital will be spent over the next five years to complete conceptual, extend the life of the operation to 2024.
Ernest Henry mines pre-feasibility and feasibility studies into this next cadre of projects, conversion to a major underground shaft operation to extend the life including the large-scale Tampakan copper-gold operation in the of the operation remains on schedule, and first magnetite was Philippines, the massive Wandoan coal project, and El Pachn recently produced from the associated magnetite concentrate plant copper project in Argentina.
Amongst the various conceptual which will create an export by-product from the operation.
studies underway, a concept study into a substantial expansion to The Koniambo nickel project in New Caledonia remains on track to the world-class Collahuasi copper operation to produce one million commence production next year before ramping up to full tonnes of copper per annum is due to be completed in early 2011.
com 13 personnel required to deliver its major growth projects currently in Xstrata volume growth development and, together with engineering partners, developed production data a standard concentrator design to fast-track the construction and delivery of the concentrator infrastructure required at the projects Mined production Unapproved Likely 200 Base case 2009 100 Approved currently being developed.
At each of our projects, we have engaged Existing businesses communities early in the process to address any areas of concern 175 from the outset and to work together with community members to 150 deliver sustainable benefits from our presence in the region, with the Five-year CAGR ultimate aim of maintaining a social licence to operate.
125 The decentralised management structure that is a core differentiator 100 of Xstrata, in my view, underpins our entrepreneurial approach to 75 project execution, just as it has in our day-to-day operations and approach to M&A.
Our businesses are able to adopt innovative 50 solutions to specific project challenges and respond more nimbly to 25 local issues, unencumbered by the constraints imposed by a single, rigid approach to project development and the limited resources and 0 capacity which often befall centralised project teams.
Once proven, 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 innovative ways of responding to particular risks or technical issues On a copper equivalent basis with 2009 based at 100. are widely disseminated and shared across the Group to ensure that As we ramp up our programme of organic growth, expansionary all of our businesses enjoy the benefits of successful innovation.
capital spending will rise accordingly to reach peak levels of Under our structure, projects are developed by the same commodity around $6.8 billion this year and next.
In addition to the five projects business management teams that will eventually be responsible for that will reach initial production this year, major projects including running the operations, ensuring maximum accountability throughout the Koniambo greenfield nickel project, the Antapaccay expansion the process and enabling operational management to develop longer to our Tintaya copper mine in southern Peru and the Ulan West term, more strategic relationships with key stakeholders.
coal mine in Australia will be contributing volume and cost improvements to Xstratas performance by the end of 2012.
Our Commodity market fundamentals underpin decision to continue investing in the development of our organic growth strategy options through the downturn of late 2008 and 2009 will permit From inception, Xstratas growth strategy has been based on a Xstrata to introduce new volumes into a market with strong conviction, now widely held, that the supply-side of our industry is supply-demand fundamentals.
fundamentally constrained and will struggle to meet burgeoning demand from populous industrialising nations over the medium fide-risking of projects to ensure successful delivery term.
Following a period of interruption during the downturn, this Xstratas project pipeline is the product of many years planning and secular trend was again in evidence in 2010, as the impact of falling preparation as projects are nurtured through numerous approval grades, longer haulage distances, labour disputes and technical stages, feasibility, environmental and social studies.
A vital problems at existing, ageing operations led to mine underperformance component of the extensive feasibility and planning process is to across the industry, while the timing of the onset of new sources of eliminate or mitigate the risks involved in each individual project and supply fell short of market expectations in most key commodities.
the cumulative risks across the pipeline, including through conducting extensive detailed designs early on, realising potential These issues are particularly acute in the copper industry, where a synergies between projects, optimising sequencing and ensuring that growing deficit is apparent and the development of new copper the requisite skills and equipment will be available to avoid expensive projects remains challenging due to skilled labour and engineering over-runs or delays once each project has been approved.
shortages, more onerous environmental and planning regulatory requirements, community dissent or increased political risk.
The entrepreneurial spirit we foster throughout the Group is clearly Challenging conditions in the geographies in which a large evident in the approach our management teams have taken to proportion of new copper projects are located are likely only to fide-risking our growth pipeline.
At Xstrata Nickel, a modular exacerbate this trend.
Capital costs continue to rise as mining sector approach has been adopted at the Koniambo project to use best inflation re-emerges in the light of increasing capital expenditure value engineering expertise and minimise the risks of additional amongst the major mining companies.
on-site activity in constructing a power plant and metallurgical complex.
Xstrata Alloys and Xstrata Zinc are using proprietary technology in their development projects to optimise the cost performance and scope of metallurgical operations.
Xstrata Copper signed a strategic alliance with Bechtel to secure the skills and | 14 Business review: overview Chief Executives report continued In the thermal coal industry, transport infrastructure constraints Export coal demand is rapidly increasing in China, and India has continue to impact on new supply from Australia and South Africa, emerged as a major importer of export thermal and coking coal to where supply growth remains highly dependent on government and fuel rising energy and steelmaking demands.
Demand for imported private sector investment in rail and port infrastructure.
Meanwhile, thermal coal in 2010 has risen by some 51% and 25% year-on-year Indonesian supply, historically the primary source of supply growth, in China and India respectively.
faces dwindling quality and shorter mine lives than Australia, South Xstratas existing portfolio and growth projects are ideally positioned Africa or Colombia.
China is now firmly established as a net importer to benefit from these longer-term secular trends, providing industryof coal, with domestic production constrained by increasingly leading exposure to copper and mid-cycle base metal commodities stringent environmental regulations, logistical constraints and the and to rising energy demand from coal-fired generation.
Our growth restructuring of a fragmented industry to closer, smaller, inefficient plans will see us progressively deliver substantial additional volumes of and unsafe operations.
key commodities into fundamentally constrained commodity markets.
While supply constraints are less pronounced, nickel producers similarly face underperformance issues, in particular from technical Outlook remains positive for commodity demand difficulties in commissioning or ramping up high pressure acid although risks remain leaching operations for the laterite deposits which now account for Global economic growth exceeded most expectations in 2010. more than half of new supply growth.
While nickel in pig iron Emerging economies continued to record very strong growth rates, remains a flexible source of new supply to plug any deficit once notably China and India, where GDP grew by a little over 10% in prices rise above operating costs, higher coking coal prices, wage China and an estimated 9.7% respectively compared to 2009.
In the inflation, currency appreciation and increased energy costs are OECD, growth was bolstered by inventory restocking and ongoing putting upwards pressure on these producers breakeven costs.
government measures including stimulus spending, extended tax cuts and quantitative easing, but these short-term measures were On the demand side, the story may by now be a familiar one to succeeded by a stronger than expected manufacturing-led recovery those who follow our sector, but it is nonetheless profound for the in the US and Germany.
future growth in demand for Xstratas products.
China, India, Brazil and other developing Asian economies will continue to fuel the lions Looking ahead, leading indicators suggest that the US economy share of growth in global commodity demand over the medium continues to find a reasonably solid track for recovery, with term.
Over 300 million people will move to cities in China alone over manufacturing activity at a seven-year high, rising retail sales, the next 15 years, while rising GDP per capita in China, India and and unemployment finally starting to decline, despite continued other developing nations is giving rise to inevitable increases in the weakness in the housing and construction sectors.
In the Eurozone, intensity of metal and energy demand as those countries move up January data for the manufacturing and services industries reveal the from their positions at the bottom of the global intensity curve.
fastest pace of expansion in nine months.
In particular, the German Xstrata Coppers Lomas Bayas mine in north Chile Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 15 economy continues to strengthen, driven by its large manufacturing In the nine short years since our IPO, Xstrata finds itself with a sector and robust exports.
Nonetheless, market confidence in the broader and deeper range of options at its disposal to deliver rate of growth in the medium term is impacted by high unemployment, growth than ever before.
Our internal portfolio of growth projects is persistent European sovereign debt concerns and the potential extensive and industry-leading and the next generation of projects is impact on growth of austerity measures.
already being advanced to sustain the momentum we have created well beyond the next three years.
We have built a recognised Importantly for commodity demand growth, developing economies, capability for identifying and executing disciplined acquisitions and and China in particular, appear set to continue to achieve wholly integrating acquired assets rapidly and successfully and we remain respectable high single digit growth rates in 2011, albeit below 2010 alive to the potential to opportunistically grow our business through levels due to the impacts of inflation and the proactive actions by value-adding acquisitions at the business unit and Group levels.
governments to contain economic growth within manageable levels.
Against the backdrop of a world-class risk management and Further actions to curb inflation are likely in 2011, following the governance framework, our devolved management culture supports monetary and fiscal measures imposed by China and India in 2010, an entrepreneurial approach at every level of the organisation.
but are, in my view, a positive sign that the authorities are proactively Importantly, our balance sheet provides the financial capability managing inflation to avoid the negative impacts of overheating.
to finance our organic growth programme while allowing us the Chinese demand for commodities is increasingly supported by flexibility to assess a range of other external opportunities to growing domestic consumption and from the urbanisation of create value.
western China as a substantial component of the governments As announced in March 2011, Willy Strothotte will retire as efforts to reduce reliance on exports to the West.
These factors are Chairman of Xstrata plc at the AGM in May.
I would like to thank further supported by a resurgence of foreign direct investment in Willy for his support, expertise and guidance during Xstratas China.
The twelfth five-year plan includes a target of 20% annual extraordinary evolution into a world class mining group.
Willy has growth in western province infrastructure investment, and 23 major been an exemplary Chairman whose stewardship of the Board new infrastructure projects worth $100 billion were approved in upheld the interests of all shareholders and who successfully 2010, all of which augurs well for ongoing growth in demand for navigated the complexities of the companys relationship with its early and mid-stage commodities.
major shareholder with integrity and discretion.
The Boards confidence in the medium-term outlook for Xstrata is Sir John Bond will be appointed Chairman subject to election at the reflected in our decision to increase the final dividend to 20 cents per AGM.
On behalf of the entire Group, I welcome Sir John to Xstrata.
Based on average dividend policy prior to the financial crisis in Sir John has an exceptional record of shareholder value creation and 2009, in which our final dividend has typically been two-thirds of a distinguished career including successfully chairing two major the total for each year, the implied dividend for the year would be international companies.
He will make a significant contribution to 30 cents per share, setting a new platform from which Xstrata will the Board and ongoing success of the company during an exciting continue its progressive dividend policy.
Maximum optionality to create sustainable Xstrata today is one of the worlds largest diversified mining shareholder value companies with a robust portfolio of long-life operations in the We have not deviated from Xstratas strategy to deliver industrybottom half of their industry cost curves, diversified across numerous leading value for our shareholders by growing and diversifying our geographies and exposed to commodities that will continue to business and continuously improving the quality of our assets since benefit from the ongoing urbanisation of China, India, Brazil and Xstratas IPO some nine years ago.
The next stage of our transformation is now well underway, to exploit the various options embedded within The initial stages of Xstratas growth relied predominantly on a series our portfolio to create value through organic growth.
I remain very of acquisitions to rapidly add scale and diversity to our portfolio.
A confident in your companys prospects now and into the future.
second stage saw the judicious application of capital and operational excellence to turn around underperforming assets, together with an unrelenting focus on improving the quality and value of our operations that continues today.
A third phase of Xstratas evolution is now coming to fruition as we transform our portfolio over the next three years and beyond through the development of a number of Mick Davis near-term organic growth options.
This transformation is no less Chief Executive fundamental than a major acquisition, but its execution is within our control to a far greater extent than any on-market transaction in a consolidated industry.
| 16 Business review: strategy Strategy The growth projects being Xstrata volume growth production data developed are transforming Xstratas volumes and Mined production Unapproved Likely 200 Base case 2009 100 Approved unit costs.
Existing businesses 175 By the end of 2014, volumes 150 will be increased by 50% over Five-year CAGR 125 2009 production, delivering 100 a 20% reduction in average 75 operating costs.
com 17 In this section 18 Market overview 21 Competitive environment 24 How we create value 26 Strategy 28 Growth pipeline 36 Key performance indicators 42 Principal risks and uncertainties
