Chief Executive Ocers strategic overview We are the marketing department of the SME in a changing world Consumers have an ever increasing choice of how to nd a product or service.
Small businesses rarely have the resources, time and expertise to chase new business themselves, especially in this increasingly fragmented usage environment.
Increasingly, therefore, small businesses need help to make their phone and cash registers ring.
We full that need not only through print media which continues to deliver significant volume of calls but also increasingly through our new digital channels.
John Condron Chief Executive Ocer In this changing environment, it is essential that we remain agile at improving our user and advertiser oerings faster than ever.
The challenges The financial and economic impacts over and opportunities we have are common across the past two and more years have been our countries of operation and we are increasingly unprecedented for our customers, and developing unied and linked-in tactical therefore for ourselves.
We have weathered programmes across all our markets.
this storm through strong action: Obviously key to our continuing internet momentum restructuring our operations, maintaining is usage and we have continued to drive usage investment, particularly in our internet growth with over 42 million users visiting our sites operations, supporting our customers, in March.
Indeed, we had around 6 million searches addressing our capital structure and through our mobile channels in March.
This was at consolidating the strength of our market a time when consumers were making fewer buying position in all our geographies.
This usage growth is a result of our continued focus on improving our sites content It has been a dicult twelve months, but we have and the user experience on all platforms, but also is again grown our internet business, which now a result of our focus on search engine optimisation contributes 415 million of revenue, delivered profit and marketing programmes.
in line with expectations and generated nearly For example, we have launched and are seeing 400 million of free cash ow.
This excellent cash impressive usage on our iPhone apps across the performance, coupled with our stabilising print Group.
Not only can you now nd businesses in retention levels is a sure sign that our customers your local area whilst on the move, but we are using continue to believe in our products.
This is in no small augmented reality to help locate those which are degree due to the quality and dedication of the people closest to you.
We are also enhancing our sites with at Yell, who have consistently delivered exceptional improvements such as 3D mapping, better search, quality and service to our 1.4 million customers.
more links into social networks and an increasing The successful equity raise and debt renancing we focus on user generated reviews.
The latter has completed in the autumn signied the confidence been greatly enhanced by the recent acquisition many have in our business model and left us with a of Trusted Places.
considerably stronger balance sheet than last year.
But it is not just our digital search capability we have This has allowed us to continue to invest in our improved.
We have also improved the print product products and our future.
We are now better placed giving it a smaller, more usable size, popular with than ever to grow when our customers confidence both users and advertisers.
returns, which we are beginning to see happen in each of our markets.
08 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Chief Executive Ocers strategic overview continued We continue to reinforce the value of our advertiser This is all possible because we are improving the solutions and highlight the considerable number technology that our sales people have to help them of leads we deliver.
We are continually looking at how we can economic environment has caused customer make the sales process more ecient and help the numbers in total to decline as caution over the customer get their ad designed and live as quickly future led to a reduction in advertising amongst and as eciently as possible.
With this in mind, SMEs and we focussed less on acquiring new we are exploiting the opportunities oered by customers.
Nevertheless, we continue to invest the iPhone and iPad, fully utilising their potential in new advertising solutions.
For example, we are in our sales call.
increasingly building websites for our customers and oering them search engine optimisation A strong position for the future and marketing solutions, ensuring that however So, it has been a challenging year but we have you search for a local business on the web, it is continued to invest in our products and across the increasingly Yell which ensures you nd the local Group, we are trialling and developing new and business you need.
These websites strengthen our improved ways to help our customers get found in relationship with our customers and oer many the fragmenting usage environment.
At the same retention opportunities.
They also oer the chance time, we are ensuring we maintain our focus on to layer on additional services over time such as their individual needs, allowing us to deliver the video or search marketing solutions which oer most cost eective leads or presentational solutions, major up-sell opportunities in the future.
Our products and processes are stronger than they have ever been and we are The customer relationship is key poised and positioned to accelerate away from this The changing world means we must treat each recession capitalising on improving customer of our customers as if they were our only customer.
sentiment in the coming year.
We have a unique relationship with 1.4 million small businesses across the Group and we are adapting our sales approach to meet their individual requirements and thus strengthen that all important relationship.
This means we are increasingly focussing on each of our customers needs to provide the best mix of products to meet those individuals needs overall.
Indeed, we are seeing significant success by packaging our media together.
These packages simplify the sale and the buying decision.
No longer do we have to have complex discussions with customers about individual product merits, we can now talk about the value they receive in total and the range of media through which we deliver leads.
We continue to focus on achieving a better understanding of our customers, with more sophisticated segmenting and targeting.
Using our relationship and knowledge of the customer, we deliver the exact solution that meets their needs, and helps get them found.
We no longer only visit once a year, we increasingly interact with our customers more frequently to feedback on the value they are receiving and adapt their media programme accordingly.
This also provides up-sell opportunities where we can identify additional marketing requirements and full them.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 09
