Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review BAE Systems has business operations providing key BAE Systems is one national capabilities in many of the worlds larger defence and security markets.
Although the Group faces a more challenging trading environment as governments look for of the worlds leading cost savings to address budgetary pressures, our broad base of activity results in a resilient business that is well defence and security positioned to withstand near-term market pressures.
Affordability and value for money are increasingly the priorities companies.
Early recognition by the Group of customer budgetary pressures resulted in significant cost reduction and efficiency actions being taken in 2009 which have continued Ian King throughout 2010.
These actions have resulted in net headcount Chief Executive reduction of approximately 15,100 including contractors in the past two years.
This cost reduction programme will enhance competitiveness, deliver further improved value for customers, and be of sustained benefit to the Groups performance.
BAE Systems has a substantial presence in Services activities inits defence and security markets.
These activities, which represented 48% of sales in 2010, include Readiness & Sustainment business in the air, land and maritime defence domains, and provision of Cyber & Intelligence services.
The Group is successfully growing its Services businesses, delivering enhanced capabilities whilst reducing costs for its customers.
BAE Systems business is based around home markets where the Group has established, or seeks to establish, a strong position in the defence industrial base.
The Groups key home markets are in Australia, India, Saudi Arabia, the UK and the US.
Sweden and South Africa remain an important part of the Groups Land & Armaments business.
US Following a review of markets and customers needs in the US, changes to the Groups organisation were implemented in the first half of the year to realign BAE Systems, Inc. to better deliver on its strategy.
Reductions in costs, benefiting both the Groups customers and shareholders, are flowing from the simplified organisation.
These changes enable BAE Systems to be more competitive in a challenging environment and more agile in Business conduct and safety BAE Systems continued to be our two key is committed corporate responsibility priorities in 2010.
Achieving to progressing high standards in ethics and towards a safety will build trust and enhance our relationships recognised with stakeholders.
leadership position in Responsible For more information p45 onourapproach to Behaviour Responsible Behaviour 8 www.
com responding effectively to customers needs.
In July, following Other home markets changes to the Groups US organisation, Larry Prior was The Group continues to seek growth in Australia and the appointed Executive Vice President, Service Sectors and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia where it has strong, established BobMurphy was appointed Executive Vice President, Product homemarket positions.
Sectors, both reporting to Linda Hudson, President and Chief In Australia, the defence budget is expected to grow following Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc.. Larry and Bob are also publication in 2009 of a Defence White Paper outlining the key members of the Groups Executive Committee.
areas for defence spend over the coming years.
In early February 2010, the US Quadrennial Defense Review In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, defence spending is expected QDR was released.
The accompanying US defence budget tocontinue to be a high priority, representing some 10.9% of forFiscal Year 2011 identified growth in the allocation to the GDP in 2009. investment account element.
The QDR restated the USs commitment to the large, next generation, F-35 combat aircraft Defence spending in India is expected to grow substantially.
BAESystems, through both its US and UK Inthe year, the Group has taken a number of steps to develop businesses, is a significant participant on this programme.
India as one of its home markets.
A second major contract forthe supply of Hawk aircraft to India was received, with local assembly The US defence and security markets continue to generate to be undertaken by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.
A land anumber of business opportunities, despite budgetary systems joint venture with Mahindra & Mahindra Limited was pressures.
These pressures are leading to Department of established, which is currently developing and marketing several Defense programme reprioritisations and a drive for greater vehicles with the support of other BAE Systems businesses.
These efficiencies are expected tohelp fund continued modest growth on investment in M&A activity defencecapability.
In addition to pursuing organic growth, the Group has continued tomake progress in developing its business through targeted UK acquisitions.
Notably, acquisitions have been made since January Pressure to reduce government expenditure in the UK was 2010 in Services and Electronic Systems, specifically high reflected in the Comprehensive Spending Review and the findings technology electronic and electro-optic systems.
BAESystems of the UK Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR were continues to target these areas, which are identified as priorities published in October.
The review identified a number of changes for customers and offer prospects for growth.
to UK defence and security priorities over the coming years.
In July 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of Atlantic The Group continues to work with the UK Ministry of Defence Marine Holding Company, a naval services business, for $372m toaddress the detailed implications of the changes identified 245m.
The business employs approximately 1,500 people at bythe SDSR.
The Group believes that it can continue to help in Mayport and Jacksonville, Florida: Moss Point, Mississippi: and delivering efficiency improvements and value for money in the Mobile, Alabama.
The acquisition complements BAE Systems way capability is generated and delivered.
In aggregate, the existing ship repair and upgrade capabilities serving the US Navy.
changes resulted in some modest impact on the performance The Group anticipates continued strong demand for naval support ofthe Groups UK business in 2010 and, thereafter, are capabilities in the US, and the acquisition is consistent with our expected to result in a reduction of approximately one pence strategy to address anticipated growth in Services activities.
inearnings per share, per annum, when compared with the Groups prior financial planning assumptions.
1 2,3 SALES BY MARKET SEGMENT % ORDER BOOK BY OPERATING GROUP % Our Services activities Platforms Readiness & International Electronics, contributed Sustainment Intelligence & Support 48% of Group 12% Land & 22% 42% Armaments 1 sales in 2010 14% 39% 48% Services 13% 6% 52% Electronic Systems Cyber & Intelligence Programmes & Support 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Including share of equity accounted investments order books and before the elimination of intra-group orders of 1.5bn.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 9 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review continued In October, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of OASYS The proposed acquisitions of ETIA S and Fairchild are Technology, LLC, a US manufacturer of electro-optical systems conditional, among other things, upon receiving regulatory and sub-assemblies, for an initial cash consideration of $24m approval.
15m and a potential earn out of up to $29m 18m.
The In January 2011, the Group announced a recommended acquisition complements BAE Systems existing electro-optical 217m 186m cash offer for Norkom Group plc, a provider of capabilities, technologies and product offerings.
innovative counter-fraud and anti-money laundering solutions to In January 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of the global financial services industry.
net Pty Limited, an Australian information security In June, BAE Systems completed the sale of half of its company supplying government and commercial customers.
non-strategic 20.5% shareholding in Saab AB for a cash The A$24m 16m acquisition supports the Groups strategy consideration of SEK1,041m 92m.
The sale of the Groups to add capabilities and footprint in the growing area of Cyber remaining investment in Saab is expected in due course.
In September, BAE Systems announced that it was reviewing In February 2011, BAE Systems completed the acquisition strategic options with regard to its Platform Solutions business.
of L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s Intelligence Services Group, In January 2011, the Group announced that the sale of the a leading provider of security and counter threat capabilities to business was no longer being pursued.
the US government, for a cash consideration of approximately $297m 190m.
Cash flow Good cash generation has been achieved in the year, and is In December, the Group entered into a definitive agreement to expected to continue, notwithstanding any short-term volatility.
acquire ETI A S, a leading Danish Cyber & Intelligence company Use of this cash flow is expected to include a focus on pursuing providing advanced technology products and services to opportunities for enhanced equity returns through investment government and commercial clients worldwide, for a cash in the business by way of organic development or precisely consideration of DKK1.2bn 138m.
In addition, the Group will continue to In January 2011, the Group entered into an agreement to meet its pension funding obligations.
Accelerated returns of acquire the 91.3% outstanding equity of Fairchild Imaging, Inc. capital to shareholders remain an option to address extended for a cash consideration of $86m 55m.
The California-based periods of balance sheet inefficiency.
business provides solid-state electronic imaging components, cameras, and systems for aerospace, industrial, medical and scientific imaging applications.
The acquisition complements the Groups electro-optics and night vision capabilities.
BAE SYSTEMS GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET POSITION US$BN Market environment The global defence market is expected to become increasingly 50 competitive as government budgets remain under pressure.
The Group now has better clarity as to the priorities of its UK 40 and US customers following the publication of the UK Strategic 42.0 30 Defence and Security Review, and the US Quadrennial Defense 33.4 31.9 30.7 Review.
Long-term spending commitments are being 20 25.9 23.1 established across the Groups key home markets.
10 15.0 13.3 13.0 Against this backdrop, BAE Systems is positioned to weather 11.1 0 market pressures with a geographically diverse and targeted portfolio of businesses.
Each of the Groups market segments, Services, Electronic Top ten global defence companies based on 2009 defence revenues Systems and Platforms, enjoy common attributes of long-term Source: Defense News demand, customers with whom the Group has strong In 2009, BAE Systems was the second largest global defence supplier.
relationships and key intellectual property.
Thisrepresented a continuation of the Groups position in its home and exportmarkets.
For more information onthe Groups home and export markets p20 10 www.
com Lockheed Martin BAE Systems Boeing Northrop Grumman General Dynamics Raytheon EADS Finmeccanica L-3 Communications United Technologies Total Performance We are deeply saddened to report the death of one of our Total Performance is not just about what the Group does but employees at our York facility in the US.
We have reviewed also about how we do it.
Building a culture of Total Performance thecause of this accident and co-operated fully with the means focusing on delivering shareholder value, on meeting the regulatory investigation.
The regulatory authority was needs of our customers and acting responsibly at all times.
unable to determine a cause for the accident or identify any non-compliances during the course of its investigation and, BAE Systems performed well in 2010, delivering against both as a result, has taken no further action.
Any lessons learnt itsFinancial Performance and non-financial objectives, including from this incident will be applied across our global business.
Customer Focus, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
Embedding the importance of non-financial Maintaining and developing the skills and capabilities of our performance measures in the culture of the Group, through the people is a key factor in the sustained success of the Group.
drive for a more integrated, Total Performance, approach, has Aswell as Total Performance Leadership see page 34, contributed to this success.
programmes for high potential employees, leadership and competency frameworks were provided, and appropriately BAE Systems is committed to achieving the highest standards tailored, to each of the Groups home markets.
The Groups ofbusiness conduct to give its customers, suppliers, regulators, Developing You programme continued to deliver training employees and shareholders the confidence that it is a business across a number of functional specialities and a Diversity which they can trust.
During the year, a major focus has been &Inclusion strategy was adopted to better support the onembedding a culture of Responsible Behaviour across recruitment, retention and engagement of talented thebusiness.
Mandated policies and processes within our employees from all backgrounds.
Operational Framework have been comprehensively updated toensure they reflect our Responsible Trading Principles.
Employees in all markets are receiving refresher training to BAE Systems remains a broadly-based and resilient business, helpthem to continue to apply our global Code of Conduct in with a focus on business opportunities in Services, Electronic their work.
This training is scheduled to be completed by Systems and Platforms.
In addition, cost efficiency will May2011.
We are pleased at the progress made and have continueto be a priority focus for management to the benefit commissioned ethics consultancy, Ethical Leadership Group, ofcustomers and to extract greater performance from the to review theworkundertaken in response to the Woolf Groups large order book.
Interviews with a number of senior leaders ineach home market and more than 60 employee focus groups across our businesses have been undertaken.
Ian King Chief Executive ACCESSIBLE DEFENCE MARKETS US$BN FORECAST DEFENCE BUDGETS FOR BAE SYSTEMS HOME MARKETS US$BN 750 1,000 600 800 666 450 600 300 400 150 200 62 54 50 43 41 29 28 26 24 22 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Home market US supplemental US investment account US other UK Other home markets Top 11 markets accessible for business by the Group based on 2009 total defence expenditure In constant 2010 prices Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: BAE Systems internal analysis The US continues to dominate global defence expenditure.
It is estimated Whilst persistent pressure on spending is expected across government 1 to have accounted for approximately 44% of the worlds total defence markets, defence and security expenditure is expected to remain an expenditure in 2009.
As a major supplier in the US market, BAESystems investment priority in the Groups key home and export markets.
The Group is remains well positioned to capture returns from that market.
well positioned in Australia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and developing its position in India.
These are markets in which defence spending is expected toincrease over the medium term.
1 Based on BAE Systems internal analysis.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 11 US France UK Japan Germany Saudi Arabia India Italy Brazil Australia Republic of Korea Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives review continued EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES 2010 PERFORMANCE The Board reviews and updates the Groups strategy annually.
The Chief Executive and Executive Committee agree the Groups Strategy, Strategic Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
In addition, there are ten annual objectives agreed by the Chief Executive and Executive Committee with the Board which focus on specific deliverables in support of both delivery of short-term results and the overall strategy.
The specific in-year performance indicators used to measure performance against the Executive Committees top ten objectives are discussed below.
For more Objective 2010 Performance information 1 1.
Meet 2010 financial targets, The Groups targets for underlying EBITA and net debt were exceeded.
p36-41 and set challenging and realistic longer-term plans 2.
Further enhance Programme execution has been good with the Group delivering an aggregated p19 programme execution improvement in outturn margin across its major programmes.
Focus on our commitments The Group has continued to deliver on its commitments to customers, delivering an p18 to our customers through aggregated improvement in schedule adherence on milestones across major schedule performance projects.
Progress towards Management has continued to embed the Total Performance agenda across p45-55 recognised leadership the Group.
Objectives in respect of business conduct, safety, and diversity and position in Responsible inclusion have been achieved.
Grow our Electronics, The agreed efficiency milestones were implemented and the business delivered a p66-67 Intelligence & Support 1.6 percentage point improvement in return on sales.
Order intake growth of 7.5% business both organically was achieved.
The Group acquired Atlantic Marine and OASYS Technology during the and via acquisitions, and year, and, in February 2011, completed the acquisition of L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. s improve efficiency Intelligence Services Group, a leading provider of security and counter threat capabilities to the US government.
Implement our global land Planned rationalisation milestones were implemented and headcount reduction is p68-69 systems strategy, and deliver exceeding plan.
The Group has continued to support the US Armys Heavy Brigade on our efficiency and Combat Team a $629m 402m contract to upgrade 1,700 Caiman Mine Resistant rationalisation plans Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles was received, and the South African business was awarded contracts for the manufacture and upgrade of MRAP RG31 vehicles.
Establish in the UK The Strategic Defence and Security Review has set the agenda and defined p70-71 sustainably profitable the areas for future UK spend in security and defence.
Transformation and through-life business rationalisation plans within Military Air Solutions, Surface Ships and Insyte are in air, land and sea continuing to plan.
In Submarine Solutions, HMS Astute was accepted by the MoD and the second boat, Ambush, was launched in January 2011.
The Detica Cyber &Intelligence business delivered sales growth of 12.7%.
Grow our home markets in Within the International business, like-for-like sales grew by 15.3%.
In Saudi Arabia, p72-73 the Kingdom of Saudi an additional 162 Saudi nationals were recruited.
In India, the land systems joint Arabia, Australia and India venture with Mahindra & Mahindra became operational and its first new product unveiled.
The Indian Defence Acquisition Council approved an accelerated process for the procurement of the M777 howitzer.
Implement our global A global Cyber & Intelligence strategy and implementation plan across the p15 initiatives US, UK and Australia has been issued.
net, an Australian information security company, in January 2011, and announced the proposed acquisitions of ETI A S and Norkom Group plc, both Cyber & Intelligence companies.
A global Readiness & Sustainment plan has been developed and Atlantic Marine, a US naval services and marine fabrication business, was acquired in the year.
Continue to develop our Following successes in 2010 on MOKYS, Hawk and Archer, the Group continues p21 global markets to pursue export opportunities, including on Typhoon, Hawk and land prospects.
For more information on the quantitative For more information on the Groups approach For more information on how the Executive p16 p56 p107 Key Performance Indicators KPIs used to to risk management Committees top ten objectives relate to measure performance against the Executive the remuneration of executive directors Committees top ten objectives 1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 37.
com THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is the forum chaired by the Chief Executive in which the operating group and functional leaders come together to communicate, review and agree on issues and actions of Group-wide significance.
Ian King Chief Executive LInE LEADERShIP FUnCTIOnAL LEADERShIP Linda hudson George Rose President and Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director of BAE Systems, Inc. Philip Bramwell Larry Prior Group General Counsel Executive Vice President, Service Sectors, BAE Systems, Inc. Andrew Davies Group Strategy Director Bob Murphy Executive Vice President, Product Sectors, BAE Systems, Inc. Alan Garwood Group Business Development Director nigel Whitehead Group Managing Director, Alastair Imrie Programmes & Support Group Human Resources Director Guy Griffiths Group Managing Director, Charlotte Lambkin International Group Communications Director BAE Systems plc board member The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2011.
A review of Executive performance against these objectives will be contained in the Annual Report Committee top ten 2011.
The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the leadership and engagement of employees at all levels in the Group in support of both delivery objectives 2011 of short-term results and the overall strategy.
Financial Performance Meet 2011 financial targets and deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value 2.
Programme Execution Further enhance programme execution through cost performance 3.
Customer Focus Focus on our commitments to our customers through schedule performance 4.
Responsible Behaviour Progress towards recognised leadership position 5. International Grow our International presence through implementation of our home market strategy 6.
US product businesses Deliver actions to drive increased shareholder value 7.
Programmes & Support Deliver in the UK sustainably profitable through-life business in the air and maritime sectors, andgrow our security business 8.
US services businesses Build a foundation for sustained profitable growth 9.
Global initiatives Implement our global initiatives within the five-year plan 10. Business development Continue to develop and deliver business within export markets BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 13 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
