strategic review from the chief executive a clear strategy to build the infrastructure business Whatever the challenges ahead, we face them with ever greater capability, a strong balance sheet based on robust cash generation, and a strong platform for further growth.
Ian Tyler Chief Executive 12 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Over the past five years we have been building Balfour Complex customers Beatty into a world-leading provider of services to In both developed and developing economies, our infrastructure owners.
We want to be recognised as customers, often governments and large regulated theinfrastructure business.
bodies, are facing more complex challenges.
One of ourcore skills is our ability to understand customers The results speak for themselves.
Since 2005, we varied needs and the complexities of the environments havedelivered 22% annual growth in pre-tax profit inwhich they operate and to harness the potential and12% annual growth in dividends per share.
We have ofourwhole business to deliver solutions.
maintained revenue and profit growth throughout the global downturn.
Whatever the challenges ahead, we Integrator capability face them with ever greater capability, a strong balance One key to delivery in a complex world is the ability to sheet based on robust cash generation, and a strong bring together all the necessary elements and resources.
Increasingly, our customers want us to reduce interface and delivery risk on complex projects by integrating the We have deepened our insight into what infrastructure supply chain as well as the related stakeholders such as owners really want the infrastructure business to be.
Integrating the supply Wehave refined our business model, and assembled chain is a core competency in the industry, but few, if any, amore comprehensive set of capabilities than those of our competitors can match our ability to manage these ofour international peers.
In turn, this gives us access critical interfaces that deliver a quality asset and to do toabroader range of markets and customers.
We set out to establish a business delivering a full range Our combined strength in these core skills differentiates of services to owners and operators of the transport us especially on large, complex projects.
Projects systems, power and water assets and complex buildings suchas Heathrows Terminal 2B described on page 21 that all societies need.
And we aim to support these orDenvers rapid transit P3 described on page 39 show assets through all stages of their lifecycle, from planning how we harness skills across our business to deliver and and investment to construction and maintenance.
manage not just individual assets but complex Todothis effectively, we bring together four core skills: infrastructure systems.
Technical expertise Despite the undoubted short-term challenges in some Only a handful of organisations across the world parts of the world, the infrastructure market offers canmatch the breadth and depth of expertise about excellent medium and long-term growth opportunities infrastructure assets that we have accumulated in you can read more about these on pages 24 to 27. theGroup.
So how will we seize those opportunities?
Our strategy Local knowledge has five elements: Infrastructure is bought by local customers to serve 1 Develop our business further localcommunities, so knowledge of local markets and More information on page 14 their needs makes a real competitive difference.
Working 2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities inmore than 80 countries and 300 offices worldwide, More information on page 16 weare strongly placed to capture local knowledge and nurture local relationships.
3 Improve operational performance  More information on page 18 4 Continue to strengthen core skills More information on page 20 5 Continue to show leadership in values and behaviour More information on page 22 Annual report and accounts 2010 13 strategic review 1 Develop our business further Our diverse range of capabilities is a great strength in uncertain times.
It enables us toaccess a wide range of markets and change focus between them to go where the opportunities are greatest at any given time.
We believe we have a balanced group of businesses that are all capable and competitive players in their own areas of expertise and that each of our divisions has the right ingredients to develop further.
To address our broad range of markets effectively, Order book wehave grouped our operating companies into four segments by fundamental capability.
Within each 8% segment their strategies are tailored to their individual markets.
To generate consistent growth, we need 2010 15.2bn toensure that they can all make a full contribution, 2009 14.1bn bothindividually and as part of bespoke project teams.
1 Revenue What are we doing?
We have a good record of acquiring and growing 2% businesses.
Between 2005 and 2010, we nearly doubled our UK construction business.
We grew our facilities 2010 10,541m management business from 250m sales to 600m in 2009 10,339m sixyears, doubled our US construction business profits 1 Including joint ventures and associates.
inthe three years since acquisition, and built our PPP business from scratch into the UKs largest primary PPPinfrastructure investor outside the financial sector.
We also have a cash-generative business which In the year ahead, we aim to: couldgive us the capacity to make acquisitions worth Pursue opportunities to add capability to Professional 500m700m over the next four to five years if the Services by acquisition rightopportunities arise at an attractive price.
Complete the transition of administration and operation In recent years, we have been focusing attention on for the majority of Support Services contracts to the growing our Professional Services and Support National Operations Centre Servicesactivities to even the balance between our Seek acquisitions for Construction Services to fill gaps capabilities and increase the prominence of these inour US coverage, particularly in Atlanta and on the relatively high-margin activities inour business mix.
WestCoast Weexpect to continue this pattern.
Apply the skills of Infrastructure Investments and PB As in the past, we will maintain a combination of organic tolaunch an infrastructure funds management business growth and acquisitions.
Before acquiring Parsons Brinckerhoff PB in 2009, we had already grown a 600-strong professional services business in the UK from scratch.
With PB, we have grown this highly technical team to 13,500.
We want to keep adding capabilities andgeographic coverage to this business as we did recently by acquiring Halsall in Canada.
We see further opportunities in the power, water, mining and transportation sectors.
In Support Services, we may need to acquire some additional skills as the scope for public sector outsourcing expands.
But our investment is more likely to be in creating the infrastructure to support organic growth aswith the new National Operations Centre in Manchester and in contract start-ups.
We will continue to grow Construction Services both organically and by acquisition.
Our acquisition focus willbe mainly outside the UK, although there may occasionally be niche opportunities in the UK, such asourrecent purchase of parts of Rok.
This enhanced ourposition in the UK affordable housing market and expanded our airport construction capabilities.
14 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Growing our businesses in buoyant markets Canada Canadas buoyant infrastructure market offers significant opportunities.
Our 33m acquisition of Toronto-based Halsall has brought us over 300people providing design and engineering services from seven offices across the country.
Previously employee-owned, Halsall will gain new momentum from being part of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
The acquisition builds on PBs presence in Canada, increasing our access to projects at the earliest stages ofdevelopment.
Halsalls focus on sustainability as itapplies to communities, buildings and infrastructure neatlycomplements PBs positioning in Canada.
Wehaveplans to build Professional Services presence inother markets and geographies.
Given our strength in UK and US public-private partnerships PPPs, Canada looks attractive to our investment business.
We have set up an investment team in Toronto supported by our US and UK PPP businesses.
Bidding with our US construction business, ithas already been shortlisted for two projects and iscurrently looking at another 10 opportunities.
Being part of PB is exciting and inspiring.
Our customers can look to us for a broader range of solutions for their projects.
Our employees will increasingly be able to apply their ideas, practices andinnovations to infrastructure as well as buildings.
Peter Halsall, Chairman, Halsall Walking tall Halsall projects include the Royal Ontario Museum and Canadas National Gallery far right.
Line drawing courtesy of Studio Daniel Libeskind.
Annual report and accounts 2010 15 strategic review 2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities Through the economic downturn in many developed economies, infrastructure has proved tobe a relatively resilient market.
We maintained revenue and profit growth through the recession: and in the uncertain post-recovery landscape we intend to sustain our growth bybeing light on our feet.
Around half our work comes from governments around the world, and we recognise that cutbacks in public spending may have some impact on future opportunities in some of our markets.
However, this will be offset by growth elsewhere andwe now have the resources to go where we see the greatest opportunities.
1 We do not want our growth to be constrained by the pace Revenue in higher growth markets of growth in our traditional markets.
The breadth of our capabilities, and the extent of our international reach, give 32% us access to an exceptionally broad range of markets and customers.
We will exploit this by increasing the focus of 2010 1,224m our activity in markets where opportunities are bigger and 2009 930m growth rates higher.
1 Including joint ventures and associates.
In the past, our focus has been very much on developed Whats next?
However, we recognise that demand for In the year ahead, we aim to: infrastructure is growing fastest in emerging economies.
The capabilities we have brought together, particularly Leverage our presence in emerging markets, particularly inprofessional services and project finance, now allow Asia, India and South Africa usto access these markets as they develop, in ways Develop our capabilities in utility markets such as water thatoffer potential for long-term growth without taking and power, including nuclear and renewables, where disproportionate risk.
investment is likely to increase But we also see further opportunities in developed Continue to develop our US business and build on our economies.
Through the acquisitions of Parsons presence in Australia and Canada Brinckerhoff and Halsall, we have increased our presence in markets such as Australia and Canada, and we will continue to build on this.
Developed economies tend to commit a reasonably consistent proportion of their GDP to maintaining and developing their infrastructure.
Over the next 1015 years we expect an increase in the proportion of GDP committed to infrastructure as the need to renew ageing post-war assets becomes critical.
We do, however, anticipate some changes in the pattern of spending.
IntheUK, for example, we expect a significant shift ofemphasis from social infrastructure such as schools and hospitals to civil infrastructure.
In civil infrastructure markets we are developing our capabilities in areas that we expect to show good growth including utilities such as water and power, and areas such as nuclear and renewable energy that will be boosted by developed economies increasing concerns about sustainability.
For more on areas of opportunity, see pages 24 to 27.
16 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | New opportunities that change lives South Africa Like many emerging economies, South Africa anticipates steeply rising demand for electricity driven by population growth, industrialisation, urbanisation and rising living standards.
With its existing power stations now ageing, the countrys power utility, Eskom, needs to increase capacity rapidly.
Its new Medupi power station, due to start commissioning in 2012, is its first new plant in 20 years.
Its massive at4,800MW it will be the worlds fourth-largest thermal power station.
Parsons Brinckerhoff is working as half of a joint PB Eskom team providing the engineering and project management.
Currently at the height of the project, theteam involves 320 staff from the UK, US, and South Africa, overseeing a daily workforce of close to 9,000.
Domestic living conditions willbe far more comfortable.
It will advance the countrys socio-economic objectives and other countries will also receive power from Medupi.
Medupi will use supercritical boiler technology to produce cleaner emissions than traditional coal-fired power stations.
To preserve scarce water supplies, it will use dry-cooling technology.
Courtesy of Hitachi Power Africa The project is fuelling an economy.
We are providing unprecedented employment opportunities for thousands of South Africans.
They will come away with technology, welding, carpentry, and supervisory and construction management skills that enable them to do future work ofthis kind.
Joe Schroedel, PBs Medupi Project Director Powering ahead Medupi could supply SouthAfrica and its neighbours from 2012.
Annual report and accounts 2010 17 Customer strategic review 3 Improve operational performance and cost-effectiveness Balfour Beatty has been through a period of expansion in the last five years entering new geographies and adding complementary capabilities much of this through sizeable acquisitions.
We have now created a platform that offers scope for improving operational performance and profitability by using our resources in a more cost-effective manner.
Moreover, the increasing prominence of professional and support services in our business mix is creating opportunities to enhance Group margins further.
1 We operate in a competitive environment: our customers Group operating margin are large, our peers strong, and some of our markets 2015 3.5%4% adversely affected by the economic turmoil.
Improving 2010 3.2% our profits and converting those to cash is crucial in order to maintain our progressive dividend policy, have capacity 2009 2.7% for acquisitions and demonstrate financial strength to 1 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation qualify for long-term infrastructure projects.
asapercentage of revenue including JVs and associates.
After a year of integrating Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are Whats next?
confident of raising Professional Services profitability In the year ahead, we aim to: while enhancing value for customers.
Improved staff Continue to implement procurement and back utilisation, collaboration with the rest of the Group, and officeinitiatives growing involvement in Engineering, Procurement and 1 Construction EPC contracts should lift margins from Continue the integration in Professional Services PBs historic 4.5% to 67%.
byincreasing focus on client service, technical expertise andproject execution, and ultimately driving performance Support Services also offers good potential for margin in the business enhancement over the medium term: the mobilisation Further strengthen our capabilities in markets and areas costs at the start of new contracts and the investment where we can command higher margins incapability can depress margins in the short term.
Overtime we will benefit from economies of scale in back office support and our investment in the National Operations Centre NOC, which opened in 2010.
In Construction Services, we expect to maintain stable margins over the medium term, as cost efficiencies and economies of scale from collective procurement are potentially offset by revenue growth in the US where contractual models present more predictable, but also lower returns than in the UK.
In order to underpin these margins, this year we have putinto action initiatives in procurement and back office that aim to achieve 30m p. a. of gross efficiency savings by the end of 2012, 20m of which we expect to flow through to the bottom line.
As a Group, we believe we have the potential to lift our 1 overall margin from 3.2% in 2010 to 3.54% over the next four to five years.
18 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Helpdesk Enhanced customer service builds wider margins UK Our UK facilities management business is growing fast.
In a competitive market, itaims to differentiate itself through expert business integration and continuous investment in customer service.
Its new 24 7 National Operations Centre NOC in Manchester takes it a big step forward.
With around 100 key accounts, our business had too many systems and processes, and inconsistent management information.
The NOC, opened in April 2010, is enabling itto bring the management and administration of most ofthese contracts together on one site sharing best practice, standardised and streamlined processes andacommon IT platform to provide a simplified and improved customer service.
The result: unified risk management and increased efficiency, delivering a winning combination of higher margins with enhanced customer service and responsiveness.
Our investment in the NOC will pay back rapidly through increased efficiency alone.
It also gives us the resources to bid for larger and more complex contracts and the data to price more effectively.
James Janion, NOC Operations Director Operations centre Up to 200 staff will beworking in the NOC by the end of 2011.
Annual report and accounts 2010 19 NOC strategic review 4 Continue to strengthen core skills We believe our customers turn to us, first and foremost, for our technical expertise.
Butincreasingly, it is necessary to combine the power of our technical expertise with ourlocal knowledge, our ability to integrate all stakeholders as well as the supply chain, and to do this on a Group-wide scale to manage complexity for our customers.
Wherever they are, our customers own and operate Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff complex assets.
Their business and operational needs are increasingly complex, and in most cases the environment N o.
1 in which they operate is challenging.
Our infrastructure in the Road & Highway, Bridge, expertise, knowledge of the local market and ability Airport and Mass-Transit categories tounderstand and meet complex needs gives us competitive advantage.
So we aim to keep enhancing N o.
2 therange and depth of our capabilities, and our ability in the Design-Build category todeliver them seamlessly across the Group.
3 Whether delivering one or more of our capabilities to a in the Storm-Water category customer, we are increasingly adding value by leveraging technical expertise from another part of the Group.
Source: Roads and Bridges magazine.
Weare doing this at Heathrow Airports Terminal 2B, by bringing in specific expertise from Parsons Brinckerhoffs Whats next?
US airports team a key to winning the projects 460m In the year ahead, we aim to: second phase recently.
Similarly, PB is an important part of Construction Services ambitions in the new nuclear Improve our technical teams by transferring our skilled and offshore wind markets.
labour force between geographies and adding more skillwhere necessary More and more customers want us to reduce interface Develop management platforms to aid collaboration and delivery risk on complex activities by integrating the anddelivery to customers supply chain as well as the other stakeholders such as owners, users and regulators that impact the project.
Leverage Parsons Brinckerhoffs customer relationships Weare now showing world-class ability to pull together in emerging markets into other parts of the business the resources of our customers and the wider supply chain to deliver a new asset or operate an existing one.
This is particularly evident in public-private partnerships where we combine skills in development, financing, construction, operation and maintenance as in the Denver rapid transit P3 project described on page 39.
By bringing skills together we are also creating wholly new possibilities.
In 2010, we announced the creation ofan infrastructure funds management business.
Thisisalogical expansion of the capability we have inInfrastructure Investments and Professional Services andis expected to generate additional income for us.
20 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Integrating capabilities saves time and cuts costs UK Airport operator BAA invests over 1bn each year in developing its airports, and is one of the UKs most innovative infrastructure clients.
It is now taking a less hands-on role in complex projects, trusting selected framework suppliers like Balfour Beatty tointegrate programmes and co-ordinate relationships between all its stakeholders.
We have a long record of successfully delivering projects, large and small, at all BAAs airports.
In the past, our operating companies contracted separately with BAA.
Now, on major contracts such as the Terminal 2B project at Heathrow, Balfour Beatty works together as one team.
Terminal 2B is a 585m phased project designed to create a new 16-stand satellite pier.
Six of these stands were handed over in 2010 in the first phase of the development.
Five Balfour Beatty operating companies are working closely together, combining our capabilities from professional services, through the engineering process and into the final construction solution.
In 2010, we were awarded the second phase of the project, a 460m design and build contract that will deliver the remaining 10 new aircraft gates by late 2013.
We have developed our initial scheme design and shared significant cost reductions with BAA.
Long-term business relationships are built on respect and responsibility, to which Zero Harm isfundamental.
Our BAA relationship has matured to a position where, for example, we chair the Employment and Skills Working Group for BAAs Sustainability Forum that represents BAA and all its other suppliers.
Steve OSullivan, Balfour Beattys BAA Framework Director 585m 10% Value of project Faster than any equivalent project Track record Balfour Beatty has delivered projects successfully for BAA over a long period of time.
Annual report and accounts 2010 21 strategic review 5 Continue to show leadership in values and behaviour Leadership is not just about having the biggest market share.
If we want to be seen as the infrastructure business, we need to act like a leader setting the industry standard for ethics, safety, sustainability, and the way we treat our customers and people.
We aim to embed ethical and sustainability thinking among our own 50,000 people and our wider 500,000-strong community of partners, contractors and suppliers.
Our reputation is our livelihood.
As we grow and are Accident Frequency Rate AFR joinedby more people, as a result of organic growth andacquisitions, we need a clear culture and values -6% thatenable everyone to make decisions that consistently protect both our finances and our reputation.
Target 0.10 2010 0.16 Given rising global concern over corruption, companies 2009 0.17 that are seen to have the highest ethical standards have a clear competitive advantage.
And emerging anti-corruption Or lower by end 2012. legislation, which has global reach, makes ethical rigour an essential part of risk management.
Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO m revenue 2 Target 38.5 What are we doing?
In 2009 we published a roadmap setting out where we 2010 42.8 want to be by 2020 on 31 sustainability issues.
Since then 2009 36.3 we have been embedding our sustainability vision across 10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against the business.
Our Code of Conduct has been issued across the Group.
Nearly 28,000 people have completed the ethics training Whats next?
course to support the Code of Conduct.
In the year ahead, we aim to: The Code sets standards consistent with the new UK Roll out our Code of Conduct to our joint venture Bribery Act, but we have taken additional measures in businesses and site-based staff and work to embed high-risk areas.
Every operating company has at least one ourvalues in our global supply chains compliance officer to help management ensure compliance.
Launch an online sustainability course for all staff In pursuit of our goal of Zero Harm by 2012, we ran Continue to work towards our 2012 roadmap targets for training programmes for 369 leaders across the Group people management, Zero Harm, energy and carbon in2010 and plan to reach 600 by the end of 2011. reduction, waste reduction, materials sustainability and Wetrialled new management tools for distribution in water conservation.
2011and moved more health and safety experts into ouroperating companies to drive progress.
For more information on our sustainability performance, We aim to attract talented people.
In 2010, we were see pages 62 to 69. ranked 40th in Fortune magazines 100 Best Places to Work in the US.
In the UK, Management Todays 2010 Most Admired Companies placed us top in our sector forthe fifth year running and 22nd overall.
We launched new apprenticeship schemes and rolled out a framework of values and behaviours that we seek from our present and future leaders.
22 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Keeping quiet about HKs biggest metro contract Hong Kong In less than 10 months we have won three major contracts from HongKongs Mass Transit Railway Corporation MTR including the largest in its history.
Together, they mean that our Hong Kong-based joint venture, Gammon, is building the majority of the islands new West Island Line, including all three new stations and 2.2km of its 3km tunnels.
A key reason was our commitment tominimise the impact on neighbours, traffic and the environment as we carve out an underground railway inone of the worlds most densely populated areas.
We will set new standards in noise and dust suppression by using elaborate shielding and electrically-driven equipment rather than diesel engines.
For above-ground structures we have developed a self-compacting concrete: which means less noise.
To minimise the impact on traffic and the environment, some 80% of tunnelling spoil will travel by conveyor belt to barges for re-use, mainly on reclamation projects within Hong Kong.
To reduce noise and dust further, the crushers feeding theconveyors will be underground.
On the largest contract, we have agreed with MTR toshare the benefits of cost savings and the cost ofanyoverruns, using a target-cost contract form.
Sai Ying Pun Station Together, the three contracts are worth over 500m making the West Island Line the largest civil infrastructure Hong Kong University Station project Gammon has ever worked on.
In the past decade, Gammon has built more underground stations in Hong Kennedy Town Station Kong, Singapore and Thailand than anyone.
Gammon was not awarded this project on price: itwas because the customer liked our proposed methods and our track record with similar projects.
Brian Gowran, Gammon Project Director for the Kennedy TownStation and Overrun Tunnel project Unspoilt Covered conveyors take spoil to barges for re-use without disturbing traffic ormah-jong players.
