market review From the chieF operating oFFicer Focused on strong, growing markets Balfour Beattys positioning as a global infrastructure business provides a sound platform for growth.
Itgives us access to a diversity of markets that share very similar needs for skills and resources.
On this platform, we have built a business model that has competitive advantage in both developed and emerging markets.
Andrew McNaughton Chief Operating Officer 24 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Infrastructure is a good business to be in As GDP grows, there are more resources available It offers a broad spread of opportunities throughout the forinfrastructure investment.
In turn, investment in world, across a range of sectors.
It promises long-term infrastructure is one of the best ways of stimulating growth, propelled by powerful factors such as population growth in the economy.
Governments recognise the growth, urbanisation and the need to renew ageing significance of this virtuous circle as evidenced by assets.
It involves both public and private sectors.
theHong Kong Governments infrastructure stimulus Andacross all its diversity of opportunities, it relies spending and the UK Governments support for major onaremarkably similar set of core competencies transportation projects such as Thameslink and Crossrail.
andprocesses: asset knowledge, risk management, Moreover, infrastructure markets are relatively stable.
commercial management and supply chain integration.
Thechart below shows that civil infrastructure spending Our chosen marketplace comprises the assets and in the US, for example, has taken a fairly constant share systems that all societies need in order to function ofGDP over almost 30 years, compared with the much anddevelop.
We group these into two broad categories: more volatile pattern of housing investment.
Civil infrastructure road, rail and air transport networks, Infrastructure demand is relatively stable and the utility systems that bring people power, water US construction spending andcommunications 6 Social infrastructure which includes education and healthcare facilities, and social and military housing.
5 4 Around the world the ownership of these assets varies considerably, with the private sector increasingly taking 3 amore significant role.
2 Our confidence in the future is underpinned by three firm beliefs: that infrastructure is a strong and growing global 1 market: that emerging economies offer particular 0 opportunity for growth: and that infrastructure investment in the UK and the US remains very much on the agenda.
Housing Civil infrastructure Our overall conclusion is that in the infrastructure markets Source: US Census Bureau.
where we operate, the adverse impacts of the global Emerging economies offer particular opportunity economic crisis will be limited with good prospects for The correlation between infrastructure investment the next five years.
andGDP growth means that fast-growing emerging markets will see particularly strong infrastructure A strong, growing global market Based on the available forecasts of global infrastructure growth.
In countries such as India, already-high GDP growth is being outstripped by the rise in infrastructure investment, we expect total spending to exceed 20trillion between 2010 and 2020.
As the map on investment see below.
page2 indicates, growth rates are expected to be highest In developing economies, infrastructure is growing in the fast-developing markets of Asia, Australia, South even faster than GDP America, Africa and the Middle East: but even in the more Civil infrastructure spending in India mature economies of North America and Europe, we expect healthy growth rates of 3.54.0%.
3.0 What underpins this growth is the close interdependency 2.5 between infrastructure spending and GDP illustrated 2.0 clearly by the chart below.
Infrastructure and GDP grow hand in hand 1.5 12 1.0 China 0.5 9 India 0 6 Source: Balfour Beatty analysis.
3 It is important to note the significant differences between developed and emerging markets.
0 Much of the developed worlds infrastructure was put GDP growth % inplace many years ago.
The key growth drivers today Source: World Bank.
Figures are for 19602008 and include the sustainability and green agendas, and the based on US$ at PPP.
Investment is Gross Fixed Capital Formation.
need to renew ageing assets that were built 40 or more years ago.
Annual report and accounts 2010 25 1980 1985 1990 1995 0 2 2000 4 2005 2009 6 8 10 1970 12 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2009 Investment growth % Share in GDP % Share in GDP % market review In emerging markets the most salient factors are population UK social infrastructure spending will fall, growth, rapid urbanisation and sharply-increasing GDP per buttoalevel above historical levels capita, creating demand for more and better infrastructure.
Education spending Health spending in the UK in the UK By contrast, we have seen flat or even declining power consumption per head in the UK.
Not that infrastructure 0.7 investment is faltering far from it.
In developed 0.6 economies, the key drivers are not so much burgeoning 0.5 demand as crumbling supply and sustainable energy.
Thepost-war infrastructure boom tailed off in the late 0.4 1960s, and since the 1980s spending has been a roughly 0.3 constant proportion of GDP.
But as much of the post-war infrastructure approaches the end of its life, replacement 0.2 activity is adding new impetus to the infrastructure market.
0.1 Another important difference between developed and 0 emerging markets is the balance between civil and socialinfrastructure.
Emerging markets tend to devote 2010-2014 Forecast period ahigher proportion of expenditure to civil infrastructure Source: ONS and CSR.
astransport and distribution networks are built and expanded.
In developed economies, where these Meanwhile, cuts in social infrastructure spending are networks are largely in place, social infrastructure such likelyto be balanced by growth in civil infrastructure.
asschools and hospitals takes a significantly higher Although central government intends to cut back shareof total spend.
civilinfrastructure investment, we expect the private sector utilities to offset this with their programmes Balfour Beatty operates in both developed and emerging ofsignificantly increased investment in power station markets.
This will not change: but the sheer scale replacements, offshore wind farms, new waste ofopportunity means that we shall seek to increase management assets and other green initiatives.
Recentannouncements such as the Infrastructure Theaccess that Parsons Brinckerhoffs business gives Investment Plan and the governments changing usto these markets was a key consideration in the attitudeto delivery of energy from waste have also given rationale for acquiring the company.
us confidence that investment in infrastructure will be higher over the next five years than in the previous five.
Growth at home is still on the agenda While our international operations have been growing We expect the impact of government cutbacks on the rapidly, the UK still accounts for some 50% of our overall UK infrastructure market to be relatively modest revenue.
Following the new UK Coalition Governments with civil infrastructure growing by some 20% over the Comprehensive Spending Review CSR there have been next five years see chart below.
concerns that a period of austerity in public spending might constrain our domestic infrastructure market.
Dynamics are changing in the UK Ouranalysis indicates that this is unlikely to be the case.
UK civil infrastructure spending Across the developed world there has historically 2005 062009 10 2010 112014-15 beenarelatively stable split between civil and social 1 infrastructure expenditure.
But in the UK something very 1 unusual happened after 1997: the proportion of spending 5 2 2 on social infrastructure grew sharply, due largely to a 3 5 3 Total Total surge in spending on education.
This sector has recently 150bn 186bn been running at levels far beyond the norm, and health spending has also been unusually high.
4 Analysing the implications of the CSR for future spending 4 on education and health, we see the bubble in education 1 Water 27bn 1 Water 28bn spending coming to an end.
But as the chart below 2 Waste 2bn 2 Waste 8bn 3 Transport 54bn 3 Transport 60bn demonstrates, education spending will still be above 4 Power 29bn 4 Power 57bn historic levels while health spending is expected to be 5 Comms 35bn 5 Comms 34bn largely maintained.
So although there will be a reduction Source: HM Treasury, 2010. in social infrastructure spending, this will simply bring it Adjusted by Balfour Beatty for CSR.
Figures are in real terms.
26 Balfour Beatty 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2014 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2014 Share in GDP % Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Structured for competitive advantage We are among the top US construction players in our If, as we believe, infrastructure is a good business to be in, field.
But our peers are heavily concentrated on their where does Balfour Batty fit in the competitive landscape?
domestic market: we have far greater international presence and a broader range of capabilities.
Traditionally, infrastructure markets have been served bysingle service businesses in fields such as design, In Europe, our construction peers have scale, broad programme management, project development, finance, geographical reach and strong knowledge and capability construction, operations and maintenance.
But none comes close businesses share not only common customers but also toourscale and capability in professional services.
many core skills and processes.
Building on these core These differences particularly our strength in skills, we have set out to establish a business that can professional services give us an edge in both deliver a full range of services to owners and operators developedand emerging markets.
across the whole spectrum of infrastructure assets.
Strong in developed and emerging markets Today, Balfour Beatty is one of the largest global infrastructure players.
All of our principal competitors In developed economies asset owners are generally experienced and well regulated.
They make informed canmobilise extensive capabilities and resources to satisfy the demands of major infrastructure delivery judgements on outsourcing and on partnerships with third-party investors.
Typically they are building new programmes: all can deploy skilled staff with deep knowledge and experience.
Most can deploy their infrastructure to replace life-expired assets or extend capacity.
Development constraints and an intricate capabilities across a broad geographic base.
But the distinctive combination of attributes that make Balfour webofstakeholders result in highly complex solutions.
Beatty stand out are its sharp focus on infrastructure Countries such as these need companies with the skills combined with its international reach, and professional to design, integrate, deliver and maintain large, complex services and financing capabilities.
They also need innovative financing solutions to support the delivery of major capital programmes.
In the Balfour Beatty is a global infrastructure business UKs recently published national infrastructure plan, for Some of our peers in our markets example, private funding is seen as key to the delivery ofa 200bn programme.
Vinci Hochtief By contrast, emerging economies are building new ACS infrastructure primarily to help their communities develop.
Balfour Beatty Projects as well as procurement methods are typically Skanska Bechtel less structured.
Business conditions can be challenging URS and attitudes to safety and the environment may be lax.
AECOM Local skills are typically focused on construction while CH2M strategic and detailed planning skills are in short supply, Fluor along with the technical capability to deliver engineering Jacobs solutions that suit the local environment.
These countries benefit from working with companies Infrastructure Industrial Other that can help governments, developers and global Infrastructure represents infrastructure and commercial building revenue.
financeorganisations to develop and deliver long-term Source: Engineering News Record.
The benefit isgreater if these companies apply their construction Our strength in infrastructure is underpinned by global capability in professional services.
We are worldwide knowledge and technical expertise to supplement and develop the skills in the local supply chain.
To sustain experts in getting infrastructure projects off the ground: planning, designing and managing them.
A handful of our theirrapid growth over time, these countries will also need increasing access to expertise in infrastructure competitors have larger professional services capability but none of these comes close to us for overall scale project development and finance.
and resources, and few have broad geographical coverage.
Our multi-capability business model gives us the Compared with the leading global engineering and expertise to meet the needs of both developed andemerging economies, and to evolve our service construction players in our marketplace, we have significantly more  knowledge tothemas they mature.
Our scale and international footprintgive us the depth of resource to respond andexperience.
toglobal markets and to pursue the most attractive opportunities as they emerge.
