06 Group overview group chief executives revieW ReBuildinG pRoFitABilitY we have delivered a much improved operating performance in a slowly recovering housing market.
we have strengthened the balance sheet, significantly improved the efficiency of the business, enhanced the quality and value of our housing and secured a strong supply of high value land.
whilst the housing market is likely to remain challenging, we are now well placed to secure further margin growth.
performance We increased profit from operations before during the year we have focused exceptional items by 55.9m to 90.1m with a significant improvement in operating margin on securing the maximum price before exceptional items to 4.4% 2009: 1.5%.
As a Group we are Operating margin before exceptional items prepared to accept lower sales increased to 5.9% 2009: 1.8% in the second volumes to preserve value.
half of the financial year and in the same period we achieved a profit after tax of 9.0m.
Operating exceptional items of 15.8m 2009: 519.5m reduced profit from operations to 74.3m 2009: 485.3m loss for the financial year.
Our Placing and Rights Issue coupled with continuing tight control of working capital enabled us to reduce net debt by 910.0m to 366.9m.
our priorities Our overriding objective is to rebuild profitability and we have set out three clear priorities to achieve this: optimising margin, improving operational efficiency and securing high value future land.
We have made considerable progress in each of these areas and by doing so have started to rebuild the profitability of the Group.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GRoup oveRview 07 Achievement of a clear set of priorities to our priorities is reBuilD profitaBility summarised on page 10. optimising margin we remain focused upon margin improvement through optimising selling prices not pursuing volumes.
operational efficiency we continue to focus upon improving operational efficiency including controlling costs throughout the business.
targeted land buying we are investing in land which we expect to deliver attractive returns in the future.
maximising value during the prior year.
The mix of buyers has also backed HomeBuy Direct product during the year.
During the year we have focused on securing changed as the proportion of investor sales has We sold 1,735 homes 2009: 138 homes under the maximum price for every sale.
As a fallen to 10.1% compared with 24.8% last year.
Group we are prepared to accept lower sales volumes to preserve value.
Procedures are in Improvements in our marketing capability have cost reduction place to ensure strict pricing discipline in every been an important factor.
New leads generated Driving operational efficiency has remained region and across every development.
from our websites have continued to increase a significant focus for the organisation.
and we have a new centralised inbound call During the year we saw a reduction in Average selling price rose by 10.9% to centre.
At the point of sale, further resources build costs reflecting the actions we had 174,300, with average private selling prices have been invested in improving conversion already taken.
In the second rates through the enhanced presentation of our half, we saw average selling price increasing sales centres and on-site sales technology via Our material supply contracts have continued by 17.8% to 180,700 on the prior year the roll-out of our I-Sales system.
However, it is likely that equivalent period.
These increases were some pressure will be felt in future as raw mainly as a result of changes in mix.
In addition to the record amount of awards material prices rise in line with the recovery the Group has received for quality during the of the economy.
At the same time private reservation rates per year, we are the only volume housebuilder to active site per week during the year increased have introduced a five-year warranty.
This Longer term efficiency savings have been by 4.2% from an average of 0.48 to an average covers fixtures and fittings and is additional to identified and implemented in a number of of 0.50.
We have achieved this through a better the ten-year National House-Building Council areas.
By reviewing our purchasing we have mix of product, improvement in our sales and warranty on the fabric of the building.
During the consolidated a number of our supply chains.
marketing and a focus on the quality of our homes.
year this has been working effectively as a point Standard house-type construction costs have of sale incentive for the customer.
been reduced and we have increased our We are building more houses to satisfy customer focus on delivering further reductions wherever demand.
Excluding the London market where The combination of product marketing and possible.
Standard house-type costs are the majority of completions are flats, 65.9% of on-site sales capability has been particularly benchmarked across the Group every six completions were houses compared with 50.5% important in driving sales of the Government months to ensure the lowest cost is achieved Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 08 Group overview Group chief executives review whilst maintaining the quality of our homes.
Since re-entering the land market in mid-2009, Overall, we have seen housebuilding total build until 30 June 2010 we had agreed terms on costs including infrastructure reducing by 527.2m of land purchases, the majority of 4.7% per square foot.
which were on deferred terms.
This equates to 96 sites and 13,359 plots with an expected Further efficiency savings and reductions in average selling price of c. 197,000.
Of the operating costs have been achieved through 13,359 plots, 51% are located in the South the roll-out of our Quality and Cost programme of England.
which promotes and shares best practice in the build process across the Group and has been commercial Developments supported by the introduction of new hand In November 2009, we disposed of Atlantic held terminal technology to all of our sites.
Quay 5 for 25.0m with an exceptional since re-entering the impairment of 4.8m.
This sale completed land market in mid-2009, land and planning the planned divestment of legacy assets until 30 June 2010 we had Our strategy has been to replan existing sites from the Wilson Bowden Developments agreed terms on 527.2m and to secure appropriate future land to seek portfolio for a total of around 200m.
of land purchases, the government policy majority of which were In the last twelve months we have replanned It is likely that there will be significant changes on deferred terms.
In particular we have been to Government housing policy as the new successful at replacing flats with new purposeGovernment is committed to moving from designed house-types.
This ensures that we are a policy based on central targets to a more building the right mix of products for our devolved framework and also implementing customers in particular given the lending significant cuts in expenditure.
Whilst there is restrictions that still favour houses over flats.
some uncertainty surrounding planning and funding for social housing, the short-term Longer term margin growth will be influenced impact on our business is likely to be limited.
by the quality of the land we are able to secure We have detailed planning consent in respect and bring into production.
We have been able of 95% of forecast completions for the year to take advantage of highly attractive land ending June 2011, outline consent in respect opportunities in targeted areas.
In the latter half of an additional 3%, and a high level of of the year we have seen competition to buy contracted Government funding.
land increasing, but given the early success of our land buying teams, we have maintained a disciplined approach and have continued to secure opportunities above our hurdle rates.
the crescent at swans Reach, daresbury by david wilson homes north west.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GRoup oveRview 09 We are committed to working closely with local health, safety and the environment outlook communities and local councils to ensure that Finding the lowest cost solution to meet The outlook for new housing remains challenging we can provide the housing that is required increasingly demanding building regulations as a result of continuing constraints on the to high environmental and design standards.
is an important work stream for the Group.
availability of mortgage finance and overall This will require genuine partnerships and Our objective is to secure a position as the economic concerns.
new ways of collaborating, many of which are lowest cost provider complying with the already emerging.
We are determined to be Code for Sustainable Homes the Code.
Against this background we will remain focused at the forefront of these changes.
During the year we built 1,765 homes to on improving profitability by achieving full value Code Level 3 or above and we are already for the homes we build and maintaining tight partner of choice starting to build developments at higher control of costs.
During the year we have also made Code levels where required.
progress in securing land through innovative In-line with normal seasonal trends we have arrangements and partnerships, particularly We have started on site at Hanham Hall, the UKs seen a slow-down in trading following the with the public sector.
Our specialist Urban first large-scale zero carbon housing development end of the spring selling season.
Over the Regeneration team, working with our divisions, and are well advanced with research to identify 10 weeks since the financial year end, net secured 1,614 units on six sites through public ways of building a Code Level 4 house without private reservations have averaged 0.48 2009: sector partnerships with a gross development the need for renewable sources of power.
As 0.51 per active site per week.
This is slightly value of 200m.
In Newcastle we have formed well as seeking technological solutions, we will down on the prior year, when sales rates for the a public private partnership with the council to continue to discuss with Government the most traditionally quieter period were stronger than regenerate the Scotswood area of the city over cost-effective way of meeting the environmental normal, but is in-line with the rate required to a 15 year period.
achieve our projected volumes for the current financial year.
Cancellation rates have remained The Homes and Communities Agency HCA We continue to place the highest priority low at an average of 11.0% 2009:12.3% for has selected the Group for each of its three on the safety of our employees, contractors, the year to date.
area based Delivery Partner Panels DPP.
customers and the wider community within We are now working with the HCA in bidding which we operate.
During the financial year We are targeting total completions for this for projects on HCA and local authority land our Injury Incidence Rate IIR was 582 2009: financial year at 5-10% higher than 2010, driven across the country.
Our first contract under 571 restated per 100,000 persons employed by increasing our numbers of outlets rather than this arrangement has now been awarded which is a 2% increase on last years figure.
Our focus continues to be in Plymouth where we have been selected for This increase can be largely attributed to on optimising selling prices rather than pursuing Phase 1 which includes 247 new homes and additional slip and trip incidents due to the volumes.
We expect to see a further shift in a new mixed-use community hub.
We are bad weather in the first quarter of the 2010 product mix, with houses likely to represent at pleased to see that the DPP framework is calendar year.
We are committed to improving least 65% of total volumes, resulting in a modest being used by a significantly greater number of health and safety and have established an increase in average selling price.
local authorities than we originally envisaged.
Executive Health and Safety Committee, which reports to the Board, to drive improvement.
Mark Clare Group Chief Executive 7 September 2010 our new development at hucknall, nottingham by david wilson homes east midlands.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
