10 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief executives review Looking ahead we are confident that St. Modwens long-established strategy will once again give us the opportunity to provide sector leading returns to shareholders.
Bill Oliver Chief Executive Progress at Longbridge the 250,000 sq.
ft. Bournville College, on target for completion in 2011.
co. uk 11 We are proud to be recognised as the UKs leading regeneration Competitive and Regulatory Environment specialist.
Our regeneration activities and the complex schemes we The lack of readily available finance and the continuing drive to fide-gear deliver make a real and lasting difference and provide an economic boost and fide-risk their businesses has restricted many developers appetite and to many deprived areas across the country.
ability to compete for new development schemes.
Speculative development remains almost non-existent and there are still very few developers who are Our return to profit is testament to the strength of our business, the both willing to bid for, and able to finance, new schemes.
hard work and skill of our employees and our proven strategy of adding value to the portfolio of properties we own and manage.
The performance By contrast, in this new competitive landscape, we are operating in is also a result of our regional presence which differentiates us from our chosen regional and secondary markets from a position of strength.
many of our competitors and has kept us in tune with the needs of local We are identifying an increasing stream of opportunities, both for communities and businesses.
It has also enabled us to continue to acquisitions and for developments which offer clear potential to create access sites that offer us the potential to apply our expertise to create and enhance value for our shareholders.
As a result, we are able to report value for our shareholders, partners and stakeholders.
on yet another very successful year for our hopper, which at over 5,700 acres, once again stands at record levels.
Our balanced business model ensures that our development activities are underpinned by a reliable recurring income stream from our 525m Despite some of the gloomier forecasts to the contrary, we have also portfolio of rent-producing properties.
This enables us to fund our cost continued to benefit from the relative resilience of our occupier markets, base and progress our longer-term regeneration projects in a risk-averse underpinned by our own focus on specific active asset management and profitable manner.
Our extensive and very diverse hopper of over 5,700 developable acres This year we have been highly successful in both reducing void levels is controlled and managed through a network of seven teams across and increasing the rent roll.
Our secondary retail centres in particular the UK, comprising highly skilled and experienced professionals.
This are continuing to perform strongly, with high occupancy and robust enables us to adopt a detailed and hands-on approach to all aspects of rental levels.
We are also seeing an increased level of enquiries for new our schemes, enabling us to deliver sector-leading results.
Our longdevelopment space, with a number of sizeable opportunities now coming standing emphasis on value creation enables us to deliver more than to fruition: for example we are in advanced discussions with Siemens in market valuation movements for our portfolio, as we marshal assets from Lincoln to develop a new 127,000 sq.
our hopper through the planning process to higher value uses.
On face value, the regulatory environment remains cumbersome and There are three main areas of focus for our business, each supported by complex.
However, we remain optimistic that the latest planning process our proven business strategy: reforms will not have an adverse impact while local authorities seek to make sense of their new-found powers and responsibilities including the 1.
Income producing investments representing 50% by value of our proposed abolition of regional spatial strategies, the replacement of Regional portfolio.
Our recurring income, generated from an extensive and Development Agencies with Local Enterprise Partnerships and the merger of diversified rent roll, enables us to continue to operate profitably, the Housing and Communities Agency with English Partnerships.
meeting the running and financing costs of the business.
One of the Companys key skills is being able to work our schemes 2.
Residential land 38% by value of our portfolio.
We acquire and through the planning system in a responsive and time-efficient manner.
develop land with the potential for residential development.
Our asset For this reason, the more restrictive a system becomes, the more our management skills enable us to add value throughout the development skills are needed, and potentially, the greater the value that is created process, realising value through land sales or by development either by our marshalling activities.
Furthermore, sites with a secured planning in joint ventures or solely through our in-house development teams.
consent of which we have many, including 20,724 residential plots with Our skills in driving our landholdings through the planning process, a recognised planning status should command an increasing premium brownfield land remediation and other aspects of regeneration and while the system adjusts to operate in the more efficient way intended.
development make us an attractive partner to landowners, local authorities and central government agencies.
Outlook Looking ahead, we are confident that St. Modwens long-established 3.
Commercial land 12% by value of our portfolio.
Our ability to strategy will once again give us the opportunity to provide sector-leading marshal land through the planning process and offer oven ready sites returns to shareholders.
for development means that we are able to meet occupiers demands swiftly and take advantage of a growing demand for pre-let and design We continue to adopt a cautious, but opportunistic, stance to changing and build opportunities arising from a decreasing supply of stock conditions.
The expertise and knowledge that we have built up over many across the UK.
years in diverse markets across the UK will ensure that we are strongly placed to continue to identify and secure opportunities in the markets Our Market that are most active and offer the best potential to create value.
We have witnessed some improvement in market conditions over the last 12 months.
Our broad range and our regional spread of development and We have a strong balance sheet and a landbank that is full of latent regeneration activities has enabled us to continue to secure business value.
Our development pipeline for 2011 and beyond is strengthening across a wide variety of sectors, achieving property sales, including our and a number of significant schemes are being marshalled for delivery in share of JVs, of 125m.
Our levels of development activity are still lower than we are used to Our asset management capability is proving invaluable in maintaining historically but we do compare well to the rest of the marketplace, with a occupancy and rent levels, and we are confident that we will be good programme of activity in place for 2011 and beyond.
able to continue with the positive progress in this area that we have demonstrated in the past two years.
As we forecast last year, our valuations at 30th November 2010 were reflective of more stable market conditions after a long period of As a result, we believe that we are well positioned to deliver profit and uncertainty, with an average positive yield shift of 0.5%.
The value of net asset value growth in 2011, despite the ongoing uncertain market our commercial land has stabilised, while the valuation of our residential conditions.
land has encouragingly recovered a small element of the values Bill oliver previously written off.
We believe this may reflect the start of a recovery Chief Executive in the market for residential land, as evidenced by the transactions we 4th February 2011 have completed during the year and since the year-end.
