Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 02 Chief Executives strategic review From Peter Ventress Defining the next phase of progress.
We have embarked on the initial stages of an important journey for the group.
During 2010, we completed our strategic review, and are now assessing the next steps and implementing them across the business.
We are making good progress and 2011 will be a year of transition.
The full impact of the review will become clearer over the coming months as the new strategy is fully embedded.
I look forward to updating you on the implementation of the strategic actions asthe programme unfolds.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 03 The year saw the group undertake We acquire and own the textiles and Wesee growth opportunities in a comprehensive strategic review.
provide these to our customers on expanding our customer base, primarily Our aim is to build on our proven service contracts of varying lengths.
through converting to rental those strengths and to position the company businesses which have yet to adopt as the leading provider of textile thefull service rental model.
Our marketplace services in our chosen markets.
The Greater focus will be applied to The European market for textile rental review covered all business segments improving return on invested capital services is estimated at 10.5 billion and geographies, and focused on andthe group is targeting to deliver per year.
our competing positions, operational a post-tax return in double-digits efficiency, capital deployment The Berendsen plc group employs more over thesame medium-term period.
As a result than 16,100 employees across 15 countries.
We are also targeting cash conversion we have now defined a number of The companies operate under the of at least 100%.
Berendsen brand in continental Europe As well as capturing improved organic and under the Sunlight brand in the UK.
An important development of the growth, there is scope for continued strategy is the active portfolio Berendsen employs over 6,800 growth through bolt-on acquisitions and management of our businesses into employees at 79 service centres to play an active role in the consolidation two categories of core growth and in 13countries.
Berendsen is a market of the industry.
We will direct our leader in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
capital investment towards the core We have a leading position in the Medium-term growth growth businesses and the latter workwear and industrial-wipers market objectives will attract less investment and we in the Netherlands, a strong position in will focus on strong cash generation.
the German hospital and nursing home, Realise full potential in areas As part of our change in priorities market and are targeting an increase of existing core competence for the manage for value businesses of market share in workwear in Germany.
within existing markets we will manage all our Scandinavian We have established operations in, Sustain organic revenue growth flat linen businesses together under the emerging markets of Poland, Latvia, rates of GDP 1%2% pa a new structure and we have initiated Lithuania, Estonia and the Czech Republic.
Our Swedish, Achieve underlying EPS growth Berendsens Sunlight business is the direct sales business, Bjrnklder was in high single-digit UKs leading supplier of textile rental included in this category but we were and laundering services and a major, Cash conversion target of pleased to announce in December 2010 provider of clinical products and services at least 100% and post-tax ROIC that we sold the business.
to the healthcare industry in the UK in double-digits The review was completed in November and overseas.
The company operates, Seek expansion into new higher 2010, so the coming 12 months will through three main divisions with almost growth markets be a period of transition as we move 9,300 employees at over 53 service towards fully embedding the strategy.
Sunlight Textile Services, Pursue progressive dividend policy An important step in moving forward provides textile rental and laundering Read more on our group as one company is the renaming services from a UK network of over 08 strategic objectives and key of thecompany as Berendsen plc.
50locations mainly to the hotel and, performance indicators We effected the change of name on the hospitality industry, manufacturing 4thJanuary 2011.
We have agreed our and the NHS.
Sunlight Clinical Solutions Strategic actions senior management structures in provides a range of products and preparation for the realignment of the services for clinical applications in the In order to meet our strategic objectives organisation later in the year.
Sunlight Direct Sales supplies linen we have a number of key actions the operating divisions in proactive and soft furnishings to the hotel and at both group and operational levels, portfolio management we have appointed contract accommodation sectors.
these are described in detail over the a Business Development Director.
Sunlight also operates in Ireland through following pages.
our Spring Grove Services subsidiary, Our business providing textile rental, laundering and clinical services.
Our business is focused on textile maintenance.
We provide service Outcome and objectives solutions to source, clean and maintain the textiles that our customers need Our strategy builds on the groups to keep their operations running, but well-invested capital base and strong which may be non-core to their activities.
Through a greater Weallow them to free up-capital focus on our core, higher margin and and resources while we leverage our higher growth businesses and by buying power, logistics systems and improving sales processes, we intend our considerable know-how to provide togrow revenue at 1%2% above a more cost effective service than their GDP andgrow underlying earnings in-house solution.
and EPS in high single-digits over the medium term.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 04 Chief Executives strategic review continued Key actions group Group action: Six key actions will underpin our strategy Focus on sales effectiveness at group level, enabling the actions We will strive to improve sales effectiveness.
Although each business line has within each operating division to deliver specific requirements, all will benefit from enhanced sales processes and support.
Specifically, we will build sales, marketing and commercial management competence and improve the degree of consistency in training and sales management.
This action will see a redeployment of resources, rather than investment in new resources, and will be championed by Christian Ellegaard at executive board level.
Further improving customer retention levels We recognise the importance ofcustomer service in retaining customers but also broadening ourservice points to extend the value of the contract.
Group action: Move to business line structure The group will also adopt a new business line structure, with executive board members taking responsibility for core business lines rather than geographical divisions.
Within this new structure, the key growth areas identified are workwear and facilities including mats, washroom and cleanroom.
In the UK, the hotel and healthcare linen businesses also offer attractive growth opportunities.
In other areas, the groups existing well-invested businesses will be managed with lower expectations of growth and consequently these areas will attract lower investment and generate higher free cash flow.
At plant level, the business remains essentially local and we will continue to drive accountability down to this level.
We have a carefully prepared programme to manage the implementation of these changes through 2011 and expect to be reporting fully under the new business line structure from the beginning of 2012.
This structure will be more transparent to all stakeholders, will enable us to identify and concentrate on growth opportunities more easily and will allow us to drive best practice in the key areas of sales, operations, logistics and pricing.
Local plant accountability We will continue to manage at a local plant level which will minimise the impact of the change to business line structure.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 05 Anticipated financial Group action: implications of group actions Review capital efficiency Implementing the new strategy will We are conducting a group-wide review of capital efficiency following necessitate modest investment, particularly a structured programme with the help of specialist consultants.
We are close in a change management programme.
to completing the diagnostic phase and good benefits have already been identified As we focus on managing our core growth and weanticipate implementing the benefits across the group in the medium areas, cash costs are expected to be term.
The objective is to improve the cash generated from the business to help in the range of 5 million to 10 million.
support growth opportunities improve the return on investment capital to double The anticipated benefits are likely digits.
Ourfive year cash conversion is within the range of 80%115%, and we to outweigh these costs by a significant aretargeting at least 100%.
Improved capital efficiency Return on invested capital is expected to result in cash conversion post tax % of at least 100%.
Our capital structure remains sound.
Berendsen plc 2008 7.4 is an inherently cash-generative 2009 7.1 business, the majority of our financing 2010 7.4 requirements are available beyond 2016 at fixed rates of below 5% and we will continue to operate well within Group action: our financial covenants.
Actively manage our portfolio In terms of our financial reporting, The implementation of our strategy will see active portfolio management in this year we have reported on existing two key areas.
We will direct our capital towards our core growth lines of business: regional segments.
In our 2011 full workwear: facilities including mats: washroom: cleanroom: UK healthcare: and year accounts, we will report for UK hotels.
At the same time, we will manage the following businesses in a different both regional and business line and manner to improve their value to the group: hotels outside the UK: healthcare in 2012 we will move to full business outside the UK: and clinical solutions and decontamination.
Read more about how we are 10, managing our portfolio Group action: Develop our expansion consolidation strategies We believe there are opportunities for continued growth through bolt-on acquisitions and for Berendsen plc to play an active role in the consolidation of the industry.
We will also look to grow in new developing countries as appropriate.
Group action: Rename Davis as Berendsen plc To promote a one company vision both internally and externally, to align the group more closely with its main operating brand and to capitalise on the benefits of shared knowledge and experience, we have changed the group name to Berendsen plc from The Davis Service Group Plc.
However, our local brands, such as Sunlight in the UK, will be retained as they continue to have strong market recognition.
On 4th January we changed our name to Berendsen plc.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 06 Chief Executives strategic review continued Key actions Operating divisions action: operating divisions Accelerate top line growth in core business lines Four key actions will provide momentum We aim to grow our group revenues 1%2% above GDP.
To do this we will focus for our six core growth areas.
on enhancing our sales, customer service and commercial management tools, processes and training across the core growth areas.
We will reallocate our resources appropriately to achieve this.
Sales machine manual For each of our products and customer solutions, we have asales machine manual that enables the sales person to identifycustomer needs and develop the right solution for them.
Operating divisions action: Leverage operational efficiency and widen application of best practice Although we manage our operations efficiently, we know that we can leverage further efficiencies from the sharing of best practice expertise, through standardisation of processes as well as sharing of resources.
We will focus on production, textile management and logistics to ensure that we continue our drive for improved efficiency.
Championed at executive board level The operational efficiency will be championed by Peter Havus at executive board level.
There are further opportunities to improve our procurement activities and deliver greater efficiencies.
This will be championed by Steve Finch at executive board level.
Implementation of our key actions Within 15 months Although the strategic review and preparation for rollout was conducted throughout much of 2010, it was not completed until November, shortly before Group the year end.
Although we have identified a series Name change of implementation milestones, it is important to view these in context: we are making good progress Group-wide capital efficiency review in the first stages of implementation.
Realignment of organisation and management in place The implementation will be facilitated by a comprehensive change management programme Operating divisions that will focus on four key areas: Building of sales and business development capabilities, Managing the pace and timing of change Remuneration systems tied to strategic targets and, Using the building blocks already in place for appropriately rewarding different levels of achievement example, local plant accountability remains unchanged Clear examples of faster execution and delivery, Refocusing our existing resources and leadership of results, Exploiting our strong experience in managing Changed priorities in manage for value businesses change at senior level and through the operations Improved capital efficiency showing through in cash flow Complete In progress To be started Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 07 Operating divisions action: Improve cash deliveries The business is cash generative but we will put in place initiatives to further enhance the cash delivery of the group.
The group wide capital review will identify opportunities to tighten working capital as well as the management of textiles.
The group sourcing programme will strengthen our buying power with further opportunities of cash savings.
Working with our customers For many of our smaller customers, we are able to ease their burden offrequent invoicing by billing for longer periods in advance.
This also helps us improve our cash profile.
Operating divisions action: Support from shared services We will optimise our shared service support functions across the group to deliver the right level of back office and administrative support.
This will allow the business to focus on delivering the strategic priorities.
Over the longer term we would expect to improve efficiencies with a cost benefit.
Sharing best practice As well as providing effective back office support, we also include central product management and development as a key shared service function.
The roll-out of our Hygiene washroom range in 2009 is a good example of this.
15-36 months 36 months Group Group More integrated group with strong interaction Pool of strong management across the group between constituents with identified senior succession First businesses established in new Operating divisions developing countries Clear leader in European Textile Services with Operating divisions a targeted footprint outside Europe Market leadership in core business areas Sales growth momentum at sustainable returns in key European markets High performance sales organisation supported Organic growth of GDP 1%-2% pa by strong operational base Underlying EPS growth: targeting high single-digit % growth ROIC achieving double-digits post-tax Meet the team responsible for 11 planning and managing change, 
