Unite 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Substantial interests in the share capital of the Company As at 2 March 2011, those shareholders, other than Directors, who had notified the Company of a disclosable interest amounting to 3% or more of the total voting rights in the Company were as follows: Shareholder Percentage of share capital BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA 5.67 Perennial Investment Partners Australia Limited 5.21 Fortis Investment Management SA 5.18 FMR LLL 5.18 J P Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.92 Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd 4.80 APG European Pensioen Groep NV 4.01 Legal & General Group plc 3.95 FIL Limited 3.66 Orange European Property Fund NV 3.62 Allianz SE 3.22 Donations The Company made no political donations during the course of the year but made charitable donations of 15,000 to Students in Free Enterprise 2009: 15,000.
The Company also donated 32 accommodation bursaries across the UK for the 2009 10 academic year to UNIAID Foundation equating to 120,869 2009: 275,936.
In addition, the Company made donations to a number of charities through its matched funding policy.
Pursuant tothat policy, the Company agrees, subject to certain conditions and limits, to match the donations made to charities byemployees through fund raising activities of their own.
During the year, those matched funding donations of the Company amounted in aggregate to 6,669 2009: 5,673.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors During the year the Company maintained its policy of agreeing and abiding by supplier payment terms.
The Group has not followed any recognised code for payment practice.
As at 31 December 2010 the Groups trade creditors were equivalent to30 days purchases 2009: 27 days.
The Company does not have any trade creditors 2009: nil.
Health & safety The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all its employees and to provide such information, training and supervision as they need for this purpose.
The Group continues to advance its development of a transparent, scalable and robust safety management system.
employment policies The Company encourages employee involvement and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities and financial performance.
To that end, the One UNITE Employee Forum has been established, consisting of elected representatives from throughout the business.
The UNITE Code of Ethics the full text of which can be found on the Companys website, confirms that the Group seeks at all times to conduct its business in accordance with, and to ensure that each of its employees and Directors adheres to, the highest standards of business and personal ethics.
An independent whistle-blowing channel also enables employees to report any incidents of improper or illegal conduct of which they may become aware whilst, if they wish, maintaining their anonymity.
The UNITE Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan was introduced in 2005 with the aim of being better able to structure remuneration packages so as to retain, motivate and reward selected Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
In addition, in 2010 a new SAYE share option scheme was put in place to replace the scheme originally put in place in 1999.
All employees within the Group are eligible to participate in the new SAYE scheme subject to them having completed aqualifying period of employment.
The Company operates a non-discriminatory employment policy.
Full and fair consideration is given to applicants for employment from the disabled where they have the appropriate skills and abilities and to the continued employment of staff who become disabled.
The Company places particular emphasis on and encourages the continuous development and training of its employees and the provision of equal opportunities for the training and career development of disabled employees.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
