Overview 3i at a glance 6 6 Our vision is to be recognised as a leading international investor based on the value we add to our portfolio, the returns we deliver to our investors and our responsible approach and style of investing.
Group 1 Portfolio by business line % Business model as at 31 March 2010 3i is differentiated through: Buyouts 46 Growth Capital 38 the combination of its business Infrastructure 11 lines, sectors, geographical Non-core activites 5 resources and network its active partnership style of investing its approach to corporate responsibility Investment funding model Investments made with 3is own 1 Portfolio by sector % balance sheet capital and funds as at 31 March 2010 managed or advised by 3i.
20 Business Services Value creation Consumer 9 Financial Services 10 3is objective is to generate returns General Industrial 29 through a combination of: Healthcare 12 Media 5 realised and unrealised growth Oil, Gas and Power 2 Technology 2 in the value of investments held Infrastructure 11 by the Group portfolio income and fees from the funds that it manages or advises 1 Portfolio by geography % Assets under management m as at 31 March 2010 as at 31 March Continental Europe 39 2009 10,780 UK 38 Asia 14 2010 9,633 North America 8 Rest of World 1 3i External funds Financial performance m year to 31 March 2010 1 Balance sheet investment value.
"Investment 386 Realisation proceeds 1,385 Realised profits 218 Unrealised value movement 458 Portfolio income 167 Gross portfolio return ""GPR"" 843 GPR % 21% Fees receivable from external funds 59 More on Group P12 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 7 Buyouts Growth Capital Infrastructure Business model Business model Business model Market focus Market focus Market focus Leading mid-market transactions, Minority investments, typically Investing in infrastructure assets, with an enterprise value of typically between 25 million and principally in social infrastructure, up to 1 billion."
150 million in established, transportation and utilities.
profitable and international Geographic focus Geographic focus businesses.
Europe, India and North America.
Geographic focus Investment funding model Investment funding model Europe, Asia and North America.
Investments made with a Investments made by funds combination of funds managed by Investment funding model managed and advised by 3i as well 3i and 3is own balance sheet.
Investments to date made as from 3is own balance sheet principally from 3is own balance commitment to these funds.
New investments to be made Actively working with our portfolio Value creation with funds managed by 3i and 3is to systematically deliver step Actively working with our portfolio own balance sheet.
to enhance performance through Value creation increased efficiencies and business Actively working with our portfolio development.
to systematically deliver step improvements in performance.
Assets under management m Assets under management m Assets under management m as at 31 March as at 31 March as at 31 March 2009 5,690 2009 2,267 2009 1,671 2010 5,227 2010 2,585 2010 1,627 3i 3i 3i External funds External funds External funds Financial performance m Financial performance m Financial performance m year to 31 March 2010 year to 31 March 2010 year to 31 March 2010 Investment 243 Investment 121 Investment 2 Realisation proceeds 467 Realisation proceeds 578 Realisation proceeds 46 Realised profits 223 Realised profits 14 Realised profits Unrealised value movement 249 Unrealised value movement 145 Unrealised value movement 84 Portfolio income 78 Portfolio income 63 Portfolio income 16 GPR 550 GPR 194 GPR 100 GPR % 38% GPR % 11% GPR % 27% Fees receivable from external funds 39 Fees receivable from external funds Fees receivable from external funds 20 More on Buyouts P31 More on Growth Capital P37 More on Infrastructure P43 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Chief Executives statement 8 8 I am confident we will see some outstanding opportunities in the next three years and believe we are now well placed, with a focused business model, good liquidity and a strong balance sheet to invest in and build some great businesses.
Michael Queen Chief Executive Our vision To be recognised as a leading international investor based on: the value we add to our portfolio the returns we deliver to our investors our responsible approach and style of investing Our values In all our activities we will: be commercial and fair respect the needs of shareholders, investors, our people and the companies in which we invest maintain our integrity and professionalism strive for continual improvement and innovation 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 9 Last year I set out that our key priorities were to ensure continue as European governments start to reduce fiscal that 3i was both financially robust and operationally agile.
deficits and personal disposable income comes under In the last 12 months we have made significant progress pressure as interest rates and taxation rise.
A combination of strong In the context of weak M&A markets, realisations held shareholder support for the rights issue in June last year up well at 1.4 billion 2009: 1.3 billion, with the and decisive management action means that net debt is uplift on sales over the opening valuations being 19%.
now well within the limits we have set, the business has been reshaped to focus on our competitive strengths and There were two new investments in new portfolio we now have choices about the future direction of 3i.
This reflected our focus on the existing portfolio, as well as our perception that there This could not have been achieved without the were few investment opportunities offering good determination and commitment of everyone that works value, for reasons noted.
I am grateful for their support and confident that keen to support our portfolio and helped them make we have a strong platform to take 3i forward in what 16 acquisitions in aggregate during the year, which we remains a challenging environment, albeit one for which believe will be value accretive to the portfolio companies 3is competitive advantages and business model are themselves and to 3i.
Last year I highlighted that we may have needed to Market environment invest heavily to protect our portfolio from the impact Stock markets rallied strongly through 2009, of covenant breaches on bank debt.
The amount anticipating the end of the recession in developed required of 52 million turned out to be much less countries.
Private equity activity also recovered but at than anticipated due to some outstanding work by our a much slower rate.
Investment levels in 2009 were teams and the management in our portfolio companies.
the lowest for a decade and, while 2010 looks to be However, we have seen some losses.
The failure of stronger, total investment is likely to be well short of British Seafood in February 2010 was our largest single that in the period from 2005 to 2007. loss in the year.
Two significant investments in the Buyouts portfolio effectively failed in the year, although Banks have regained some confidence and debt is the financial impact from these had been recognised in increasingly available for transactions, although this full in the previous financial year.
Overall, our portfolio is is a mixed picture, with tough negotiations between performing well and showing both resilience and good portfolio companies and banks being a common upside potential as earnings recover.
Pricing for those transactions completing has been high, with significant private equity competition As can be seen from the business line reviews, the for those deals that have been completed.
This can Buyouts business has recovered strongly this year.
be partly explained by the fact that the private equity Jonathan Russell and his team had moved early to ensure industry is well funded and is largely incentivised that costs were taken out in portfolio companies and to deploy capital rather than returning uninvested that new market opportunities were explored.
The case commitments to investors.
studies in this report and in our online reporting centre provide examples of this.
Our market positioning has ensured that we have had the option to consider many of the investment The sale of Ambea for 212 million in February was a opportunities arising in our market, but we have notable achievement and was delivered through the adopted a cautious approach, judging that many of combination of an active buy-and-build strategy and the deals being completed did not offer good value.
improvements in the margins and operating model of the business.
As the pace of recovery has been slow, corporations have continued to focus on fide-gearing their balance Growth Capital raised a dedicated fund for the first time, sheets and we have not yet seen a strong demand for raising around 400 million of external capital which, growth capital.
However, there are some positive signs together with 800 million of balance sheet capital, that this is now changing.
provides a good platform for investment in the next two years.
Guy Zarzavatdjian and Paul Waller led this effort Performance in what was a very tough fundraising environment.
This A total return of 16% 2009: 53 % represents a now means all three of our core business lines invest a significant recovery from last year.
We benefited from mixture of balance sheet capital and third-party funds.
stock market recovery as we use market multiples to value assets, but we also saw some strong realised Infrastructure delivered a good performance with a gross profits on exit, as well as more positive earnings portfolio return of 27%.
This largely reflected the increase performance in many of our portfolio companies.
in the 3i Infrastructure plc share price from its depressed level in March 2009.
The underlying asset performance Our approach to valuation means much of the strong in Infrastructure was solid, further demonstrating the recoveries in earnings that are visible in forecasts and consistency and low volatility of returns that make budgets of portfolio companies will not be reflected infrastructure such an attractive asset class.
in our reported performance until those anticipated earnings improvements are actually achieved.
We sold the bulk of our Venture portfolio during the year at what we considered was an attractive price, Manufacturing businesses saw the strongest recovery recovering most of our last balance sheet value.
The particularly those based in continental Europe with remaining non-core Venture portfolio and SMI assets export-led business models.
European consumer-facing now account for less than 5% of the total portfolio.
businesses found life harder and we would expect this to 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
