For the seventh consecutive Chief Executives year, every year since we statement became a public company, Admiral Group has reported record profi ts and record turnover.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE For the seventh consecutive year, every year since Chief Executive Offi cer we became a public company, Admiral Group has reported record profi ts and record turnover.
On the face of it I think most CEOs would be pleased with such results.
Does it make sense to say that Iam pleased, but far from satisfi ed?
In my view, 2010 was a mixed year for the Group.
There were some big triumphs but also some quite sobering moments and, in a lot of areas, its too early to judge the quality of the work completed.
The big success was the UK motor insurance business.
Its a snowball going like a freight train.
Admiral Group has a core business that is fantastic and appears to be getting better.
Trading conditions in the UK were more favourable than any time since 2000.
And Im pleased to say we were able to take full advantage.
Big price hikes in the market pushed consumers to shop.
We raised our rates some, but also took advantage of our combined ratio advantage in the market to gobble up market share.
We are now home to about 10% of the UK private The Boards decision to exit the German market car insurance market by value.
More details on this after three years is a clear indication that young market and our performance are provided by and immature does not give even a new business David Stevens on the following pages.
So 2011 will be dedicated to improving our operations in Spain, Besides UK insurance there were other areas in the Italy, the USA and France.
Theres no magic Group that did well, including: formula and success will defi nitely not be Growth and development of ConTe in Italy instantaneous, but our goal is to quickly put these The continued growth of Rastreator, our price businesses on a clear success trajectory.
Im comparison business in Spain pleased to say that I believe we have the right people in place to do this.
I do believe that all of However, there were also important businesses these operations will be successful, albeit, in time.
in the Group that underperformed or that ran into substantial challenges, including: Already we are successful at exporting our award-winning culture.
Our operations in Italy, AdmiralDirekt, our insurance operation in Spain and the USA all gained entry to their Germany, which we sold at the end of the year respective country or area lists that measure Slow growth of Elephant Auto in the USA employee satisfaction.
It is a very good feeling Diffi cult trading conditions in Spain, which acted to walk into an offi ce, hundreds or even thousands as a brake on the development of Balumba of miles away from ones own, and know instantly it The fall in Confuseds profi ts aligned with was cut from the same cloth.
Now all we need to ongoing market share decline Kevin Chidwick do is continue to grow ConTe profi tably, get some gives more details on this business later in price hikes in the Spanish market and generate this report cheaper quotes in greater volume in the USA!
Our other operations are all young and immature businesses that need to mature and improve.
2010 goes down as the Year of the Puppy Dog.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 08 Movie Madness Childrens party 2,300 people attended Admirals Movie Madness Admiral staff enjoy dressing up to help party at Cardiff International Arena in July and entertain employees children at the enjoyed funfair rides, movie-themed areas and Christmas Party in Swansea.
Here are a few highlights from 2010 Overall: Record profi ts of 265.5 million 32% growth in customer numbers, from 86,500 customers at year-end, up 144% 2.08 million to 2.75 million from 2009 Record turnover fi gure of 1.58 billion Loss ratio after 12 months was 28 percentage Record dividend declared, 35.5p share points better in 2010 than 2009 59% return on capital UK Childrens Christmas Parties attendance tops 1,000!
Gained licence and now trading in Maryland, as well as Virginia Loss ratio fi gures better than expectations 41% growth in customers, from 50,300 to 70,700 First annual profi t of 0.8 million, a change of 2.1 million from 2009 Did over 250,000 quotes from launch on January 18 Did over 164,000 quotes from launch in February 420% growth in quotes in the year from 254,000 to 1,320,000 As you can see, on a lot of measures 2010 was a Time to say Thanks.
In particular Id like to pretty good year.
As you may remember actually highlight the contribution of Andrew Probert, our quite unlikely, so Ill remind you, 2009 was the Year former Finance Director, who, instead of being of the Ox: a lot of hard-tilling of the insurance soil.
retired, was instrumental in achieving the sale of I think 2010 goes down as the Year of the Puppy AdmiralDirekt.
Finally, as one does, Ive saved the Dog.
It was the Year of the Puppy Dog because best for last.
to staff, partners when one looks at those highlights it looks like an and signifi cant others, as those record profi ts and incredibly cute, cuddly year with a lot of moments record turnover numbers didnt happen by that youll treasure forever.
puppy dog, sometimes it weed on the fl oor!
In sum, this is a good business and a good organisation.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE Chief Executive Offi cer 1 March 2011 Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 09
