Business review 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives statement We have made significant progress in crystallising the largest growth opportunities in our history.
inLNG, with total operating profit up 2% to$2449million 2009$2 405 million.
InTransmission and Distribution T&D, totaloperating profit was $711 million 2009$721 million.
During the year, theGroupdisposed of the majority of its Power Generation interests to focus on higher-value opportunities elsewhere in the portfolio.
Further details are set out in the Financial review on pages 27 to 33.
A year of delivery BGGroup offers a clear investment proposition: we are an internationally diversified, integrated energy business with a specialism in gas, and our objective is to deliver rates of growth that are a multiple of the industry average.
The vehicle for delivering this investment proposition is a clear, effective and resilient global gas strategy, founded on a deep understanding of our target markets and a broad set of customer relationships.
Wecouple this with the skills to identify, Frank Chapman Chief Executive commercialise and connect to those markets 2010 was a pivotal year in the delivery thelong-life, competitively priced resources that of value from our strategy.
are the foundation of sustainable value creation.
2010 was a pivotal year in the delivery of value from this strategy.
BGGroups interests in the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, are now larger and of a higher quality than outlined a year ago.
It is BGGroup delivered a good set of results in four years a compound annual growth rate now our view that these interests willsupport 2010, together with significant progress in of 19%.
We also anticipate a 50% step-change net production above 550 000 boe per day crystallising the largest growth opportunities in in our liquefied natural gas LNG portfolio to boed by 2020, up from last years estimates our history.
We have reaffirmed plans to grow 20million tonnes per annum mtpa by 2015, of400 000 boed.
Meanwhile, ourUSshale gas exploration and production E&P volumes by and have indicated a supply potential of business is also expanding rapidly.
We now an average of 6-8% per annum outto 2020, 30mtpa by 2020.
Much of this resource resides expect net production of 190000boed by 2015 with the 7% mid-point of that growth range within a pipeline of economically robust from our shale gas interests inTexas, Louisiana, now achievable from existing discoveries.
We projects which we expect to drive growth into Pennsylvania andWest Virginia almost announced material increases to estimates of the future, thereby creating significant value double last years estimates.
In Australia, future production in Brazil and the USA and forshareholders over the years ahead.
thecommencement ofconstruction at QCLNG sanctioned the Queensland Curtis LNG represents the realisation of a key long-term QCLNG Project in Australia.
As our growth Group operating performance strategic objective: to globalise our LNG business plans gain momentum and with key projects Earnings for the year increased by 18% through an Asia-Pacific equity LNG position, now underway, we also extended our strong to$4013million 2009 $3 392 million.
In E&P, within reach of high-value markets where track record in total reserves and resources totaloperating profit was 17% higher at natural gas is sold on an oil-indexed basis.
BG Group has added more than $3766million 2009 $3 223 million.
BGGroup Further details are set out under Keybusiness 8billion barrels of oil equivalent boe in just reported another strongperformance developments on pages 14 and 15.
Unless otherwise set out in this statement, financial business performance and totalresults, see note 2 on page 91 information for BG Group and its business segments is based on and note10 on page 106. theGroups business performance.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Our growth plans are underpinned by a There is also a shared commitment to absorb The Board and Group Executive top-quartile track record in exploration and and apply the lessons from every accident, Committee appraisal.
During 2010, BGGroups total both our own andthose of others.
During the year, we welcomed Chris Finlayson reserves and resources base increased by to the Group Executive Committee as around 1.7 billion boe to reach 16.2 billion boe For this reason, we have set up a dedicated Executive Vice President & Managing Director, up 12% year-on-year and providing 69 years team to examine the BP Macondo blow-out Europe and Central Asia.
As the Chairman has of production at 2010 levels.
That team is looking at all aspects noted, Ashley Almanza will stand down from ofwell design, safety procedures and the the Board on 31 March 2011, to be succeeded Moreover, as we explain in Business management of, and interface between, asChief Financial Officer by Fabio Barbosa.
environment and outlook on pages 18 and 19, contractors.
We are also working with our the significant potential inherent within our peers to enhance the industrys oil spill I would like to thank Ashley for his tremendous portfolio is being realised amid a positive market contingency measures and will modify our commitment and contribution to BGGroup.
We expect strong own technical standards, where necessary, He has worked with me closely in an growth in global gas demand through the toapply the key findings from the Macondo exceptional partnership that has helped shape decade, with very substantial new investments accident to our own operations and the Group as we know it today.
I would also in supply required to meet that anticipated internalcontrols.
liketo welcome Fabio to BGGroup and look demand.
Asignificant supply shortfall would forward to working with him on the delivery tighten gas prices considerably, benefiting BGGroup has made good progress in recent ofour exciting future.
companies like BGGroup with material new years in enhancing our safety performance.
supply projects already underway and a strong, Total recordable case frequency TRCF a key Anniversary low-cost reserves and resources position.
industry measure of the number of injuries BGGroup celebrated its 10th anniversary on recorded per million hours worked has fallen 23October 2010.
Over the past decade, the Sustainability and safety by more than half since 2005. price of shares in BGGroup has increased by a As the Chairman has mentioned, the blow-out factor of five and we have achieved an almost on the BP Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico However, it remains an unacceptable fact that eight-fold increase in total operating profit.
has highlighted, once again, the critical people are still being injured in our work sites.
Both past performance andfuture potential importance of safety in an industry that Inparticular, I greatly regret having to report the reflect the strength and depth ofBGGroups routinely handles hazardous substances deaths of two contractors during the period most significant source ofcompetitive and whose operations present potentially under review.
One died on a construction site advantage our people, to whomI would significant intrinsic risks.
inEgypt, and another fell from scaffolding like to express my gratitude fortheir many while working on a jacket under construction successful endeavours.
At BGGroup, we have instigated a number inAbu Dhabi for our operations on the Panna ofinitiatives over the years and under my field, offshore India.
Both fatalities have been personal leadership focused on both investigated fully, with key findings occupational safety and asset integrity.
Ourinitiatives and approach are guided by afundamental philosophy: we do not accept Contractor safety performance is a particular Frank Chapman thenotion that attention to safety requires focus in 2011, with a global programme already Chief Executive financial performance to be compromised.
underway to enhance contractor and Infact, in our view, those two forces are employee compliance with BG Group safety complementary since, invariably, sound safety practices and standards.
For further details of performance is also a reliable indicator of a our commitment to keeping our people free business that is well-managed more generally.
from injury, see The way we work on pages 40to 43.
We believe that all incidents are preventable and our goal is zero injuries across all of our operations.
Safety is our highest priority.
To understand our business, our progress and how we manage our risks, please refer to the following sections: OUR STRATEGY KEY BUSINESS BUSINESS OPERATING PRINCIPAL RISKS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS ENVIRONMENT REVIEW AND UNCERTAINTIES AND OUTLOOK BG Groups business BG Groups BG Groups market A detailed overview Principal risk model and strategic significant context and growth of BG Group in 2010 identication and approach achievements prospects management in advancing its The Boards strategy in 2010 approach to risk management Pages 12 and 13 Pages 14 and 15 Pages 18 and 19 Pages 20 to 26 Pages 34 to 39 Pages 40 to 43 BG Group www.
