4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executives Statement Katherine Garrett-Cox The volatility of global stock markets and continuing tough economic conditions have raised many challenges in my first full year as Chief Executive.
Our primary focus continues to be investment in global equities and throughout the year we have remained consistent to our long-term investment Net Asset Value Total philosophy.
This is the foundation of our business and we have not compromised the integrity of our investment Return rose by decision-making process.
The continuation of our progressive dividend policy, during a period when many companies cut their dividend, and ongoing building of our 22.2% reserves have been major achievements for the year.
Performance Summary Over the year the Companys basic Net Asset Value NAV per share rose 19.2% and generated a total return of 22.2%.
Total Shareholder By comparison the share price rose 16.8% and the Total Return rose by Shareholder Return TSR by 20.3%.
The discount to net asset value, while less volatile than in 2008, ended the year at 17.1%, compared to 15.4% at the start of the financial year, as discounts for many investment trusts widened in the 20.3% final months of the period.
Our TSR ranked 34th out of 43 in our peer group of Global Growth and Global Growth and Income Trusts over the year.
It is encouraging to note that over two years the TSR Company was ranked 11th out of our peer group of 37 Trusts.
On a expenses fell by NAV basis, the Trust was ranked 32nd over one year and 13th over two years.
Market Recovery 4.8% At the start of the year, investor attention was focused on the policy measures of governments aimed at bringing stability to the global financial system, following the crisis of 2008, whilst preventing recession turning into depression.
Coordinated responses of low interest rates, quantitative easing and recapitalisation of bank balance sheets were implemented around the globe.
In March, we saw a reversal of investor sentiment and a rapid rise in stock markets as belief in the likely success of these policy measures gained momentum.
Many of the companies which performed most strongly at this time were among those most highly geared and , and which had fallen furthest over Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 5 the previous 12 months.
We did not participate in the improved markedly over the second half of the year as the narrow-based rally in these stocks, as in many cases we recovery in markets broadened out from its initial narrow considered their business models to be unattractive.
This has continued since the end of the period.
our relative underperformance over the full year is as a result of being underinvested in these types of stocks during their Income Generation extreme rallies in March and April.
This is evidenced by the Company dividends and level of yield are key components fact that over those two months alone, our quoted equity in defining our investment universe and strategy.
In an portfolio returned 5.9% less than the FTSE All-World Index.
extremely challenging environment for income generation, A number of these companies subsequently fell in value we have placed great emphasis on the sustainability of during the second half of the year losing much of their first dividends in our investment selection process, both as an half gains.
indicator of underlying strength and in order to support our commitment to a progressive dividend policy.
Quoted equities Our UK portfolio has a high income requirement: it produces Within our quoted equity portfolio, each of our regional over 50% of the income of the quoted equity portfolio.
managers is tasked with outperforming a relevant, regional, This had an adverse impact on its capital performance over Sterling denominated equity index.
Last year we achieved the year, but the income returns from our UK portfolio above benchmark returns in Europe and a return broadly have been key in maintaining the Companys progressive in line with the benchmark index in North America.
These dividend policy in a very challenging year.
We are aware of returns are noteworthy, following the strong relative the importance attached by our shareholders to dividend performance also recorded in these areas in the weak stock income and we have increased our dividend by 1.9% while markets of 2008.
On pages 12 to 17 we report in more detail over half of the companies listed on the FTSE 350 Index have on our managers performance.
reduced, suspended or maintained dividends.
We reduced cash balances as a percentage of net assets Other asset classes ahead of the recovery in equity markets, by investing selectively in well-managed companies with strong balance We also invest a small proportion of our total assets in other sheets and positive cash flow generation in which we have a asset classes, the long-term returns of which complement high level of conviction.
A total of 190 million was invested those of our quoted equity portfolio.
In private equity, into global equities in the first half of the year.
the quoted portfolio experienced a strong year.
We sold into the rally in share prices, choosing instead to increase We committed a further 100 million to global equity diversification in our private equity fund investments.
We markets in the second half of the year, drawing down have previously outlined our intention to reduce our direct on our banking facilities to take net debt to 120m.
Our exposure in UK property.
We benefited from a recovery in ability to borrow at a time when banks were reluctant to market valuations towards the end of the year and took the lend to financial companies is testament to the strength of opportunity to sell two properties, both at prices significantly the Companys balance sheet and reputation.
We invested above last years valuations, one of which completed shortly funds into the strongest performing areas of Asia and after the year end.
Income from the property portfolio Europe, while keeping overall portfolio turnover levels low.
increased to 4.5 million from 4.2 million last year.
Our confidence in longer-term global economic recovery Substantially lower US gas prices and a weakening of the has increased with some countries having already exited US dollar against Sterling over the year resulted in a fall in recession.
We have adopted a more balanced approach in revenues from our US mineral interests to their 2008 levels of the portfolio and reduced the defensive growth bias of our holdings.
The relative performance of our equity portfolio 1.6 million, against a peak of 2.2 million in 2009.
