Assets under management and Chief Executive financialperformance Officers statement AuM development The Groups AuM increased by 42% from an opening level of US$24.9billion to reach US$35.3 billion at the year end.
Thiswas achieved through net subscriptions of US$7.6 billion and positive investment performance of US$2.8 billion.
Gross subscriptions were significantly higher than the prior year at US$11.3billion FY2008 09: US$3.8 billion with the majority of the inflows going to the Groups most liquid investment themes of external debt and local currency, much as predicted at the time of last years annual report and in line with our previous experience at this stage of the cycle after crisis.
The principal sources of The year has been marked by funds were larger segregated account mandates, including significant new funds further enhancement of the from governments reserve managers and sovereign wealth funds from the emerging markets themselves.
In line with the overall relative positioning of emerging secular shift that we have been predicting, such accounts are no longer moving simply markets over developed markets into dollar-denominated instruments, but into local currency assets in emerging markets, and which now include currency overlay and hedging products in addition I am pleased to be able to report that in the to active mandates in both currencies and bonds.
Levels of gross redemptions were year ended 30 June 2010 Ashmore Group plc reduced sharply from the prior period at US$3.7billion FY2008 09:US$11.3billion.
performed well in respect of its key targets Financial performance of overall investment performance of assets The Group achieved good growth in managed, growth of assets under management revenue in the year, with a 41% increase in net revenue to 286.2million FY2008 09: and the financial performance of the company.
Management fee income in sterling terms increased by 3% to TheGroup also made good progress in its plans 192.1million FY2008 09: 186.8million to deepen and broaden its distribution capability, as a result of increased average AuM and improved foreign exchange conversion and in advancing its local asset management rates, offset by reduced average fee margins.
Thisreduction in margins is as ventures in key emerging markets.
Meanwhile, a result of the mix of subscriptions as the business and its asset classes grow the investment world is steadily getting our and evolve, with larger segregated client inflows and the most liquid investment messages that emerging markets must become themes attracting lower pricing.
acore part of an investment portfolio in the Performance fee income grew strongly by 58% to 82.9 million FY2008 09: future and that few have enough of their 52.5 million, as a result of strong investment performance from funds investable assets committed to thoseregions.
across investment themes, principally this year from annual fees of funds with 31December and 30 April year end dates.
This again demonstrates the benefits of our performance fee model where annual fees are staggered across the financial year.
Profit before tax increased 36% For KPIs please see page 14 Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 06 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Final dividend per share 8.34p 2009 9.34p overall with 97% by AuM of those Sub-themes introduced within accounts managed to benchmarks outperforming their benchmarks over external debt, local currency and one year, and 53% outperforming over three years.
Hence the Groups wellcorporate debt with different established active investment processes, which have been tested during a number of cycles, continued to generate alpha.
liquidity and risk characteristics Importantly, this alpha also came from where we expected and had predicted to clients, in the roll-down of risk through our investment themes from sovereign from 159.8 million to 217.2 million with markets are steadily being dispelled by investment grade through non-investment earnings per share increasing to 23.9 pence the recent events in the Eurozone, where grade to local currency, corporate debt, FY2008 09: 17.1 pence.
In line with the downgrades have begun to contrast with equity and, just beginning in this year increase in earnings per share, and in view the steady upgrades expected in emerging and expected to continue over the next markets over coming years.
Finally, the of the positive outlook for the business, 1-2years, special situations privateequity.
whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet role of the emerging markets, and their Recognising developments within to support seed capital for new products, importance within the G20 as it sets emerging markets, availability of assets we are delighted to be able to recommend international policy, continues to expand, for investment and providing routes an increase in the total dividend to particularly in exploring the longer term to invest in them is our core function.
reform of the international monetary Asmore investors realise the opportunity system and the likely increased role of of emerging market investing, and those Emerging markets: emerging markets currencies.
markets grow and provide more diversified In summary, there is a new structure Developments and opportunities opportunities, our challenge is to provide to the global economy and in particular the The year has been marked by the further suitable products to each potential client.
bargaining power of the emerging world.
enhancement of the relative positioning of This year saw us establish a variety of new Ashmore has a long history of successful emerging markets over developed markets products as we saw increasing opportunity investment across emerging markets in several ways.
Firstly, the forecast for to provide investors differing slices of and regards this long-term structural economic growth in emerging markets emerging markets risk with different target opportunity, coupled with an inexorable remains a credible 6-7% in both 2010 and returns and liquidity profiles.
shift of investors allocations to the 2011, significantly outstripping the forecast As a result, and as our existing emerging markets, as providing a platform growth levels for the developed world investors will know, we now provide for further development in shareholder of just over 2% in each year.
Developed sub-themes within each of the major value through the execution of our stated markets will only recover slowly from the public markets investment themes of three-phase strategy.
credit crisis as the effects of deleveraging external debt, local currency and corporate will still be felt for some time and policy debt, with different liquidity and risk has to adjust to reflect the much less For our strategy characteristics.
If an investor wants a please see page 08 levered environment.
Secondly, balance of highly liquid, plain vanilla, single theme, payment fundamentals in many emerging daily dealing product, with lower targeted markets remain strong and improving.
Operational achievements returns than the strategies that accept less Anumber of emerging economies already liquidity, or than the more blended and The key to the long-term success of any have the theoretical capacity to use complex investment packages, then we asset manager is to consistently produce reserves to pay off all of their debt and still can now provide it, both in UK and Europe strong investment performance and be left with surpluses: an impossible dream and to some extent Asia, through a full establish and distribute products that for any major developed country.
Thirdly, suite of SICAV products.
Wealso expect capture the requirements of a diverse despite home country bias, the historic to be able to do so in the USA in this and growing client base.
Investment prejudices of investors towards the safer financialyear.
performance during the year was good developed world over riskier emerging Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 07
