10 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Group chief executives review A successful year for Aviva This has been a successful year for Aviva.
Despite the tough economic environment in 2010, we have grown the business and the benefits of Avivas transformation over recent years have started to come through.
We have seen strong growth during the year: IFRS Andrew Moss operating profits were up 26% to 2.55 billion and Group chief executive total sales were up 4% to 47.1 billion.
We are selling more and improving profitability: we delivered a life new business internal rate of return IRR of 12.5% and a general insurance combined operating ratio COR of 96.8%.
We have also beaten our target for capital generation, increasing net operational capital by 70% to 1.7 billion.
This is the result of a great deal of hard work... and the benefits are clearly 53.4m across the group focusing on our customers, evident in the numbers customers growing the business and driving cost and As expected, the economic situation remained capital efficiency.
The fact that we turned in 47.1bn We are in good shape to continue building worldwide sales such a strong financial performance under on last years strong performance.
We have a these circumstances underlines the strength clear strategy to concentrate on the markets 2.55bn of our business.
where we have strength and scale and to operating profit We are seeing evidence of improved make the most of running our life and performance right across our business.
We had general insurance businesses under a single another strong year in life insurance.
insurance is returning to growth from a low point in the cycle.
Our asset management We have created a strong platform business, Aviva Investors, delivered significant for profitable growth... growth in funded external sales.
With the global economy in the grip of a financial crisis, we have created a strong Our customers are at the heart of platform for profitable growth, taking decisive our success... management actions to improve our productivity Avivas resilience and improving performance are and efficiency.
underpinned by the scale of our customer base, The steps we have taken as part of our One now over 53 million strong.
Aviva, twice the value strategy have helped us Against an uncertain economic backdrop, achieve this.
We have simplified and streamlined customers are looking to save more for their the Group, moving from a federation of financial security.
Investment performance and independent businesses to a successful, global customer demand for our products increased business operating under a single, strong brand.
total funds under management by 23 billion This has strengthened the business and enabled to 402 billion in the year.
us to serve our customers better.
Through our determination to focus on meeting customers needs effectively and efficiently, we are attracting new customers and giving existing customers greater reason to stay with Aviva.
11 Aviva plc Group chief executives review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In Asia Pacific we have made great strides in the... as we continued to grow the growth of our franchise.
Life and pensions sales business profitably... 5 were up 48% and IRRs improved significantly During the year we maintained our emphasis on 5 from 6% to 11% through active management growing the business profitably.
We ensured of the product mix and capital discipline.
that we allocated our capital to areas where Our general insurance performance is a we could earn optimal returns and continued very important highlight of 2010.
Over the last to bear down on costs.
couple of years, we took tough decisions to We reduced our cost base by 149 million, move away from unprofitable business, a reduction of 3%, and over the last three years particularly in the UK.
This means that, from a we have taken more than 750 million of costs sound footing, we are now growing in a market out of the business.
which shows some signs of improvement and With this combination of keeping down total general insurance and health net written costs and pursuing profitable growth, Avivas life premiums increased by 6% to 9,699 million.
business is now significantly more profitable than Our offering is proving very successful.
In the it was three years ago and the momentum is UK general insurance business, net written continuing.
In general insurance, absolute cost premiums were 5% higher at 4,046 million in savings combined with rising sales and 2010 and we delivered four consecutive quarters disciplined underwriting have driven a significant of sales growth.
In Aviva Europe the COR was improvement in profitability.
103%, and although some of this was due to These improvements helped to drive IFRS poor weather this is an area for further operating profit up by 26% to 2,550 million improvement in 2011.
In Canada our secondand earnings per share increased by 33% to largest general insurance business our decision 50 pence.
to exit unprofitable business contributed to a In addition, the consultation on the planned 54% increase in operating profit to 222 million closure of Avivas final salary staff pension on slightly lower sales, down 3% to 1,958 scheme was completed during the year.
Moving million on a constant currency basis.
all UK staff to a defined contribution scheme Across the general insurance business we from 1 April 2011 has benefited Avivas net asset achieved a COR of 96.8%, better than our 2011 value by 286 million and will reduce funding target of 97%.
The strength of our bancassurance performance was particularly pleasing.
Our... due to strong performances combination of life and general insurance and across our businesses our excellent products and services in both areas We delivered a strong life insurance performance make us an attractive business partner and in 2010.
Long-term savings sales increased by during 2010 we announced new arrangements 4% to 37,360 million.
Through our focus on with Santander and Royal Bank of Scotland.
profitable new business growth and disciplined We have over 100 bank partnerships and longallocation of capital the Groups Internal rate of term savings sales in this area grew by 10% in return IRR increased to 12.5% from 10.0% the year.
in 2009 with a payback of 8 years 14 years Aviva Investors, our global asset in 2009. management business, grew assets under In the UK our life business is clearly winning management by 4% to 260 billion.
IFRS in an attractive market and we were voted the operating profits were down from 115 million UKs top insurer by independent financial in 2009 to 100 million in 2010 as we continued advisers.
Not only did we grow long-term saving to invest in the business.
Despite the sales by 19% and increase our market share for unpredictable nature of the financial markets, the third consecutive quarter but we also investment performance was ahead of target for delivered excellent profitability with a 15% IRR Aviva Investors with 73% of its funds beating and significantly increased margins to 3.4% benchmark.
The business has also made good FY 2009: 2.8%.
progress in the development of a global In Europe we are well positioned in the infrastructure which will help to reinforce the worlds largest life and pensions market.
We focus on delivering strong growth in third-party achieved a 13% IRR in Aviva Europe ahead business.
Net funded external sales rose from of the Groups short term financial target on 236 million outflows in 2009 to 2,364 million life and pensions sales up 3% on a local inflows in 2010. currency basis.
Overall, our results in life, general insurance In North America we significantly increased and asset management have been largely profitability with an IRR of 14% and a four-year unaffected by foreign exchange movements.
payback as a result of disciplined pricing management and our focus on more capitalefficient life products.
Excluding Australian life business sold on 1 October 2009 12 Aviva plc Group chief executives review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In January 2011 we provided the market with Cash and capital is a clear further embedded value disclosure.
This gave differentiator... additional clarity to the value of Avivas future We took time in 2010 to highlight to analysts cash flows and allows greater comparability with and shareholders the strength of our cash and other UK insurers.
On a European Embedded capital generation.
Indeed, we generate Value equivalent basis Avivas net asset value substantially more capital than any other insurer per share is 621 pence at 31 December 2010. in the UK.
Our IFRS shareholder equity now exceeds Given the strength of our business across life the level before the global financial crisis, and general insurance, and with over 30 million having increased during the year by 2.5 billion customers on long-term contracts, a key to 13.0 billion and our financial strength was characteristic of Aviva is the strength of our recognised by the positive rating action by cash flows and our capital position.
2010 saw a credit rating agencies S&P and Fitch at the 3 billion increase in expected future cash flows start of 2011. from our in-force life book to 36 billion.
Last year we forecast net operating capital... supporting a healthy and for the year of 1.5 billion.
We have beaten that growing dividend guidance, delivering 1.7 billion net operating It is the strength of our capital generation and capital in 2010 an increase of 70% on 2009. our balance sheet which support a healthy and growing dividend.
For 2010, we intend to pay... and our balance sheet is a dividend of 25.5 pence, an increase of 6% stronger over 2009.
We also provided further clarity on the strength and quality of our balance sheet which We have refreshed our strategy underpins our resilient profits and powerful In November 2010, we set out the results of capital generation.
During the year our IFRS net asset value per There is no doubt we are in a strong position share increased to 454 pence 31 December because of the actions we have taken across the 2010 from 374 pence 31 December 2009, business.
Equally, the world is a very different largely through the strength of our earnings place to when we laid out our strategy in 2007. and by reducing the pension deficit to zero We are in a new economic environment as 31 December 2010 from 1.7 billion customers prefer to pay down debt and save 31 December 2009, but also partly through more and constraints on capital require greater improving financial markets.
investment discipline, strategic focus and strong The strength of Avivas balance sheet rests balance sheets.
on our effective management of credit and Given this changed environment in 2010 insurance risk and our disciplined asset liability we took a step back and had a hard look at our management.
We have high-quality, well strategic direction.
There were three clear managed and diverse fixed income portfolios, conclusions, as I outline here and set out in and our asset manager Aviva Investors has more detail in the following pages: helped to deliver a consistently strong performance across these assets over a 1.
Increasing our geographic focus on number of years.
12 markets where we have strength and scale, In line with the prudent management particularly in the UK and Europe where our of our balance sheet in the current economic market-leading positions mean that we are well environment and our strong capital generation, placed to make the most of the significant we plan to reduce Avivas hybrid debt by at least demographic opportunity in the region.
700 million over the next three years.
Strong platform for profitable growth Moved from 40 brands to a single, strong brand Aviva Grown the scale of our customer base, now over 53 million strong and continuing to attract new customers Reshaped the portfolio to reallocate capital to higher return markets such as the partial IPO of Delta Lloyd and the sale of our sub-scale Australian life business Brought our businesses closer together combined life and general insurance in the UK and implemented the transformation of our European business Delivered our 500 million cost savings target a year early 750 million costs taken out of the business over the last 3 years Reduced our headcount by approximately 19% since 2007 Completed the reattribution of the inherited estate benefiting policyholders and shareholders Negotiated the closure of the final salary section of the UK staff pension schemes to future accruals 13 Aviva plc Group chief executives review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2.
Benefiting from the combination of life The real source of our success, of which I am and general insurance.
Our life and general always conscious, is the difference that our insurance operations are excellent businesses in people can make to our customers lives.
This is their own right, with strong market positions, what motivates us and makes Aviva an exciting good growth prospects and attractive returns.
In addition to their inherent strengths, there are significant advantages to running both under Building a strong and sustainable one strong brand.
For example, Aviva benefits business.
from diversification of risk that allows us to hold Our business helps our customers to manage the 30-40% less capital to write new general risks of everyday life and to secure their financial insurance business than on a standalone basis.
We must be there for them throughout their lives and beyond, so it is crucial we are a 3.
Building on our core strengths in sustainable and profitable business, for the marketing and distribution expertise, technical mutual benefit of our shareholders and our excellence, operational effectiveness and customers.
We already perform well in Our sustainability and financial strength these areas, but by focusing our efforts and are underpinned by effective risk management, resources we aim to excel at each of them, and which allows us to predict future changes, move enhance Avivas position as a leading insurer.
more quickly and take better decisions for our customers, giving them prosperity and peace Delivering on short-term financial of mind.
commitments Confident outlook In addition to our longer-term strategy, we have set out a number of near-term, demanding We are in good shape with a clear way forward financial targets.
We aim to deliver: and strong momentum in our businesses.
At least 1.5 billion operational capital In our life business, we are confident that with generation in 2011: our brand strength, leading market positions and Life IRR of a least 12% with payback of great product offerings, we are in a strong position 10 years or less: to benefit from our customers increasing 2011 general insurance COR of 97% or propensity to save in these uncertain times.
better: and In our general insurance business, because 200 million of cost savings and 200 of the actions we have taken and the improving million of efficiency gains by the end market conditions, I believe the prospects are of 2012. better than at any time in the last five years.
We have come a long way in the last few In 2010 we demonstrated our ability to meet years and I am confident that, although the these targets as we generated 1.7 billion net economic environment may well be tough in operational capital: delivered a life new business 2011, we have a strong platform from which IRR of 12.5% and a general insurance COR to deliver the continued success of Aviva.
Strength from our people and our customers We are reaping the benefits of the commitment and hard work of our people over the past few Andrew Moss years and I am grateful to all of the Aviva team.
Group chief executive Safeguarding our financial future With economies recovering at different speeds and a greater pressure on finances for both business and individuals, we are playing our part in finding new ways of thinking about how we should safeguard our financial futures.
We continue to monitor consumer attitudes to savings around the world.
We now have seven years of rich data from which to create insight www.
In August 2010 we launched Mind the Gap, a report which explores the difference, across 27 European countries, between the pension provision people will need in retirement and the pension amount they can currently expect to receive.
It provides calls to action to address the pensions gap and incentivise higher levels of saving www.
In October 2010, we convened the Future Prosperity Panel, bringing together leading international thinkers from outside financial services to debate fresh approaches to ensuring financial prosperity.
It uses insights from public policy, business and behavioural economics to look for new solutions to help people save www.
