About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 15 Chief Executives review Bob Diamond Summary Managing Our Risks Barclays delivered a significant increase in profit before tax in 2010 I believe the outcomes on key risk-related metrics demonstrate clearly on both a headline and underlying basis.
This was despite continued our success here over the past year.
economic challenges in our principal markets: historically low interest We ended 2010 with even stronger positions on capital 10.8% Core rates: sluggish volumes in many market segments: and considerable Tier 1 ratio and liquidity 154bn than we started the year, whilst regulatory uncertainty.
In light of those circumstances, I am proud of maintaining our adjusted gross leverage at 20x: what my colleagues have achieved.
Balance sheet growth was modest, particularly on a risk-weighted We have much more to do to ensure that we can continue to deliver on asset basis: and our goal to produce top quartile total shareholder returns TSR over time.
Impairment was down considerably, and our 2010 loan loss rate of a Over 2010, we ranked in the top quartile of our global peer group against 118bps was materially lower than the 156bps charge in 2009, though which we measure our relative TSR performance with a performance of still above our long term average of around 90bps over the last two minus 4% reecting difficult market conditions for bank stocks globally.
I focus the latter half of this review on the commitments against which I believe we must deliver to continue to achieve our TSR goal.
Maintaining Strategic Momentum We will continue to pursue the same strategic priorities under my leadership in 2011 that we have pursued under John Varley in 2010.
We continue to believe that our integrated model provides We remain focused on ensuring that we capitalise on the value that superior benets to our customers, clients and broader our universal banking model brings to our customers and clients.
A key part of that remains the diversication of our business by geography, stakeholders because of its diversity by business, geography, business line, client and customer types, and funding sources.
customer and client type and funding source Compensation In making decisions around compensation for 2010, we have sought 2010 Performance to balance the responsibility to be sensitive to the external environment In his review a year ago, John Varley reiterated our focus on the three with the commercial necessity of ensuring that our decisions allow us priorities that had guided us through the financial and economic crises to to attract and retain the talent we need to deliver for all our stakeholders.
that point: staying close to customers and clients: managing our risks, and This was not an easy task.
Our decisions are also fully compliant with maintaining strategic momentum.
That is where we focused our energy the signicantly altered regulations that now govern discretionary pay throughout 2010, so I will use these priorities for my review of the year.
awards, especially the re-written FSA Remuneration Code, and with our commitments made under Project Merlin.
As a result, the amount of Staying Close to Customers and Clients discretionary compensation awards that are deferred has increased further: Many of our customers and clients faced continued challenges throughout the proportion of equity in the deferral structures has increased: and 2010.
Our responsibility was clear to be there for them, whatever their we have developed an innovative structure for a deferred compensation needs, whenever those needs arose.
Our income performance in 2010 scheme for our most senior employees that links future pay-outs under provides a good indication of the health of those customer and client the scheme to the Groups core capital position at the time.
In total, and relationships, with overall income up 8% to another new record.
Our against a backdrop of a 32% increase in Group profit before tax for 2010, success by business was more mixed than I would like, reecting either our performance awards which exclude charges relating to prior year specic market dynamics or purposeful rebalancing on our part.
I was deferrals but include current year awards vesting particularly pleased with our income performance in UK Retail Banking, in future years were down 7% on 2009.
Barclays Africa and Absa, the non-US parts of our Barclaycard portfolio, the core UK arm of Barclays Corporate and Barclays Wealth.
In Barclays Capital, while the absolute revenues are not yet where we want them, our Our focus is on execution, which means delivering on our progress in Equities and Investment Banking was demonstrably better in commitments in four key areas: maintaining a strong capital the latter half of the year and I am pleased by the way we outperformed most of our peers in the final quarter of the year.
base: improving returns: delivering selective income growth: and demonstrating our credentials as a global citizen Lending is a fundamental part of what we do to support economic growth and our customers and clients.
In the UK, there remains significant political and media attention on the banks lending delivery.
In 2010, we provided 43bn of gross new lending to UK households and businesses including 7.5bn of UK loans when we acquired Standard Life Bank at the beginning of the year.
Note a 2010 Peer group: Bank of America, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Santander, Socit Gnrale and UniCredit.
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Chief Executives review continued 2011 Execution Priorities 3.
Top-line growth At the time my succession was announced, I made it clear that I had While we are focused on improving returns, we cannot take our eye off the no intention of materially altering the strategy that the Group has been top-line, so we will selectively invest for growth in business areas where pursuing for some time.
My attention has been, and will continue to be, the return justifies it.
There are clear examples across the Group, including: focused squarely on increasing the pace and intensity of execution of Barclays Wealth where our strategic investment programme, known as that strategy.
The level of uncertainty in the economic and regulatory our Gamma plan, is now one year into delivery : Barclaycards Global environment remains high, but we cannot allow that to distract us.
We Business Solutions activities which provides commercial payment services: must make clear commitments to the market, and then deliver against monetising the build-out of Equities and Investment Banking in Barclays them, in four areas.
Capital: and capitalising on opportunities in Asia and Africa.
We expect that this continued investment in growth will be largely organic, as was our development over the past decade of Barclays Capital and Barclays 1.
Capital We must remove the uncertainty associated with the impact of the Global Investors.
implementation of new Basel rules on our capital ratios.
The combination of where we nished 2010 and the continued demonstration of our ability 4.
Citizenship In general we as banks need to do more to help foster economic growth to generate substantial equity organically should go some way towards this.
While there are significant regulatory questions to be resolved in 2011 and job creation as well as helping the public understand better the significant role we already play in this regard.
I take pride in the culture especially the outcome of the Financial Stability Boards deliberations on so-called G-SIFIs i. e. systemically important financial institutions at Barclays, where many of my colleagues work selessly to help those in need in their local communities and we apply our expertise to real world at a global level, one of which we expect to be Barclays and, in the UK, the recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking issues.
We must do a better job of helping those outside the organisation see the scale of what we do and the impact it has as we seek to intensify we believe that we will be able to manage those impacts.
But we recognise that we must maintain a strict and pro-active focus on our our efforts here.
You can expect to hear much more from us in this space later this year.
capital levels, leverage, balance sheet growth and utilisation and the disposal of legacy assets.
Returns Job creation, stimulating economic growth and investing The new environment will necessitate lower returns than the period just in communities in which we work are at the core of our preceding the recent crisis but I believe the difference in performance citizenship agenda between winners and losers by this vital measure will be stark.
Our priority is to ensure we are a winner.
The returns we are currently generating will not be acceptable to our shareholders over the medium term.
Conclusion I have 147,500 colleagues around the world who are focused on bringing We must be in a position to deliver at least a 13% return on equity and a the best of Barclays to everything that they do, everyday.
They have 15% return on tangible equity by the end of our planning cycle.
We also delivered unfailingly over the past three years.
We have many more expect our cost of equity to decline towards 10% relative to a 12.5% cost challenges ahead, but I know I have their support in tackling them.
It is in 2010 and the 11.5% cost we have set for 2011 over this period as the my honour to lead them, and this great institution, as we look to deliver worst impacts of the credit crisis abate and the major economies in which against the expectations of all of our stakeholders, most importantly our we operate return to growth.
customers and clients, over the coming months and years.
We have instigated a disciplined, rigorous and continuous review of our portfolio to ensure that we can achieve those levels of return.
We have already undertaken a strategic review of our operating model that should take out considerable running costs over the medium-term, and you should expect us to continue to act to adjust our business and asset portfolio mix as required to achieve our return goals.
