06 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Chief Executives review Bob Diamond Barclays delivered a significant increase in profit before tax in 2010 on both a headline and underlying basis.
This was despite continued economic challenges in our principal markets: historically low interest rates: sluggish volumes in many market segments: and considerable regulatory uncertainty.
In light of those circumstances, I am proud of what my colleagues have achieved.
We have much more to do to ensure that we can continue to deliver on our goal to produce top quartile total shareholder returns TSR over time.
Over 2010, we a ranked in the top quartile of our global peer group against which we measure our relative TSR performance with a performance of minus 4% reflecting difficult market conditions for bank stocks globally.
I focus the latter half of this review on the commitments against which I believe we must deliver to continue to achieve our TSR goal.
We continue to believe that our integrated model provides superior benefits to our customers, clients and broader stakeholders because of its diversity by business, geography, customer and client type and funding source 2010 Performance In his review a year ago, John Varley reiterated our focus on the three priorities that had guided us through the financial and economic crises to that point: staying close to customers and clients: managing our risks: and maintaining strategic momentum.
That is where we focused our energy throughout 2010, so I will use these priorities for my review of the year.
I am proud of what we achieved in Staying Close to Customers and Clients 2010, especially our profit growth and Many of our customers and clients faced continued challenges throughout 2010.
Our responsibility was clear to be there for them, whatever their needs, enhanced capital and liquidity positions whenever those needs arose.
Our income performance in 2010 provides a good indication of the health of those customer and client relationships, with overall income up 8% to another new record.
Our success by business was more mixed than I would like, reflecting either specific market dynamics or purposeful rebalancing on our part.
I was particularly pleased with our income performance in UK Retail Banking, Barclays Africa and Absa, the non-US parts of our Barclaycard portfolio, the core UK arm of Barclays Corporate and Barclays Wealth.
In Barclays Capital, while the absolute revenues are not yet where we want them, our progress in Equities and Investment Banking was demonstrably better in the latter half of the year and I am pleased by the way we outperformed most of our peers in the final quarter of the year.
Lending is a fundamental part of what we do to support economic growth and our customers and clients.
In the UK, there remains significant political and media attention on the banks lending delivery.
In 2010, we provided 43bn of gross new lending to UK households and businesses including 7.5bn of UK loans from the acquisition of Standard Life Bank at the beginning of the year.
Managing Our Risks I believe the outcomes on key risk-related metrics demonstrate clearly our success over the past year.
We ended 2010 with even stronger positions on capital 10.8% Core Tier 1 ratio and liquidity 154bn than we started the year, whilst maintaining our adjusted gross leverage at 20x: Balance sheet growth was modest, particularly on a risk-weighted asset basis: and Impairment was down considerably, and our 2010 loan loss rate of 118bps was materially lower than the 156bps charge in 2009, though still above our long term average of around 90bps over the last two decades.
a 2010 peer group: Bank of America, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Santander, Socit Gnrale and UniCredit.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 07 Go online Further information on our business review is available at www.
com annualreport10 Maintaining Strategic Momentum the 11.5% cost we have set for 2011 over this period as the worst impacts of We will continue to pursue the same strategic priorities under my leadership in the credit crisis abate and the major economies in which we operate return 2011 that we pursued under John Varley in 2010.
We remain focused on ensuring to growth.
that we capitalise on the value that our universal banking model brings to our customers and clients.
A key part of that remains the diversification of our We have instigated a disciplined, rigorous and continuous review of our portfolio to ensure that we can achieve those levels of return.
We have already undertaken business by geography, business line, client and customer types and funding sources.
a strategic review of our operating model that should take out considerable running costs over the medium-term, and you should expect us to continue to Compensation act to adjust our business and asset portfolio mix as required to achieve our return goals.
In making decisions around compensation for 2010, we have sought to balance the responsibility to be sensitive to the external environment with the 3.
Top-line growth commercial necessity of ensuring that our decisions allow us to attract and retain the talent we need to deliver for all our stakeholders.
While we are focused on improving returns, we cannot take our eye off the top-line, so we will selectively invest for growth in business areas where the Our decisions are also fully compliant with the significantly altered regulations that now govern discretionary pay awards, especially the re-written FSA return justifies it.
There are clear examples across the Group, including: Barclays Wealth where our strategic investment programme, known as the Gamma plan, Remuneration Code, and with our commitments made under Project Merlin.
As a result, the amount of discretionary compensation awards that are deferred is now one year into delivery : Barclaycards Global Business Solutions activities which provides commercial payment services: monetising the build-out of has increased further: the proportion of equity in the deferral structures has increased: and we have developed an innovative structure for a deferred Equities and Investment Banking in Barclays Capital: and capitalising on opportunities in Asia and Africa.
We expect that this continued investment in compensation scheme for our most senior employees that links future pay-outs under the scheme to the Groups core capital position at the time.
In total, and growth will be largely organic, as was our development over the past decade of Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors.
against a backdrop of a 32% increase in Group profit before tax for 2010, our performance awards which exclude charges relating to prior year deferrals but 4.
Citizenship include current year awards vesting in future years were down 7% on 2009.
In general we as banks need to do more to help foster economic growth and job creation as well as helping the public understand better the significant role we already play in this regard.
I take pride in the culture at Barclays, where many of Our focus is on execution, which means delivering on our my colleagues work selflessly to help those in need in their local communities commitments in four key areas: maintaining a strong capital and we apply our expertise to real world issues.
We must do a better job of base: improving returns: delivering selective income growth: helping those outside the organisation see the scale of what we do and the and demonstrating our credentials as a global citizen impact it has as we seek to intensify our efforts here.
You can expect to hear much more from us in this space later this year.
2011 Execution Priorities At the time my succession was announced, I made it clear that I had no intention Job creation, stimulating economic growth and investing of materially altering the strategy that the Group has been pursuing for some in communities in which we work are at the core of our time.
My attention has been, and will continue to be, focused squarely on citizenship agenda increasing the pace and intensity of execution of that strategy.
The level of uncertainty in the economic and regulatory environment remains high, but we cannot allow that to distract us.
We must make clear commitments to the Conclusion market, and then deliver against them, in four areas.
I have 147,500 colleagues around the world who are focused on bringing the best of Barclays to everything that they do, everyday.
Capital unfailingly over the past three years.
We have many more challenges ahead, but We must remove the uncertainty associated with the impact of the I know I have their support in tackling them.
It is my honour to lead them, and implementation of new Basel rules on our capital ratios.
The combination of this great institution, as we look to deliver against the expectations of all of our where we finished 2010 and the continued demonstration of our ability to stakeholders, most importantly our customers and clients, over the coming generate substantial equity organically should go some way towards this.
there are significant regulatory questions to be resolved in 2011 especially the outcome of the Financial Stability Boards deliberations on so-called G-SIFIs i. e. systemically important financial institutions at a global level, one of which we expect to be Barclays and, in the UK, the recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking we believe that we will be able to manage those impacts.
But we recognise that we must maintain a strict and pro-active focus on our capital levels, leverage, balance sheet growth and utilisation and the disposal of legacy assets.
Returns Chief Executive The new environment will necessitate lower returns than the period just preceding the recent crisis, but I believe the difference in performance between winners and losers by this vital measure will be stark.
Our priority is to ensure we are a winner.
The returns we are currently generating will not be acceptable to our shareholders over the medium term.
We must be in a position to deliver at least a 13% return on equity and a 15% return on tangible equity by the end of our planning cycle.
We also expect our cost of equity to decline towards 10% relative to a 12.5% cost in 2010 and
