Q&A Andrew Horton describes the trends, risks and opportunities that he foresees in 2011. individually or in teams in lines of Q: Many of the lines of business Q: In a market such as this, how business that are complementary to Beazley specialises in are seeing do you keep faith with your clients business we currently write.
How soft will while maintaining profitability?
business plan for 2011 does not envisage strong organic growth because the soft market get?
in markets that are not themselves A: In a nutshell, by focusing on the growing we would need to underprice reason people buy insurance in the first A: I see the overall profitability of the competition to achieve that.
Youre buying a promise to pay the insurance sector as being on a youre buying claims service.
And it downward trend at present and thats continues to amaze me how little senior Q: In the current market is before considering the potential impact executives in our industry talk about that.
We have seen a profitable growth best achieved significant influx of new competitors into organically or through M&A?
When youre in a tough market like some of our core lines of business, todays, claims service is really your including lines that are known to be main bulwark against price-driven A: Both are challenging, frankly.
challenging to underwrite, like competition.
We say to our clients and We were described in some sections professional liability for lawyers or for to our brokers: yes, we may be a little of the press as being opportunistic in architects and engineers.
We would more expensive but remember what making an offer for another Lloyds expect a number of these companies youre buying.
We have made and business last year.
My response was, to withdraw in due course but the continue to make major investments show me an offer that does not have challenge with writing some of the in highly skilled claims people who can some element of opportunism in it.
longer tail business in a soft market is provide prompt and supportive service So I hope we will continue to be that its a little like frostbite you dont in the event of a claim.
But if one know anythings wrong until its too late.
thinks of opportunism as off-the-cuff And the good news about this from an So they may think theyre currently decision making, then our approach is investors perspective is that the best writing at a profit and not discover the reverse of opportunistic.
For us, clients are generally the ones who care otherwise for a few years.
potential acquisitions have to meet most about claims service.
And they That said, there is a very obvious some tough criteria.
They have to be in also care most about prudent risk constraint on the ability of the market to specialist lines of business that we really management, which is another service continue to chase rates downward, and like.
They have to have a stellar track we focus on.
So the clients that are less that is the meagre investment return record in underwriting.
And we have to price sensitive and do not see what we they are currently earning.
The biggest be confident about the culture of the offer as a commodity often represent enemy of prudent underwriting has organisation and the prospective fit with the best risks.
historically been a buoyant investment our culture.
We look at dozens of market: we must hope that the opposite potential acquisitions annually that do statement also holds true.
If it does, we Q: Do you see growth not meet one or other of these criteria.
would expect reductions in rates to opportunities in the year ahead?
And finally of course the price must be bottom out some time next year.
Our investors have the right to A: Beazley has grown significantly in expect that we will keep our feet on recent years and we will grow in future, the ground and not get carried away but were going to be very careful about by bid fever.
sizing up growth opportunities in the current environment.
Were going to continue to look out for them.
There may be good people we can hire either 16 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Q: What opportunities do you Q: Should insurers be returning Q: Beazley celebrates its 25th see to develop business in capital to investors at this point in anniversary this year.
reflections does that prompt in you?
A: Europe, including the UK, is A: There is of course not just one A: The main reflection it prompts in currently the source of 15% of our insurance cycle and in fact it is unusual me is a sense of pride that the spirit premiums.
In the past five years we have for the property cycle and the casualty that animated the company from the opened offices in Paris, Munich and cycle and the marine cycle, for example, beginning is still alive and strong.
Oslo, focusing on the local development to be fully in synch with one another.
So The company that Andrew Beazley and of our professional liability, reinsurance there may be growth opportunities in Nick Furlonge founded 25 years ago and energy insurance business one area while there is a dearth of is recognisably the same company.
Going forward, we plan to opportunities in another.
That said, the Were writing many of the same lines of use these local offices supported by group actively manages the capital it business, such as professional liability the marketing and business development holds and in the absence of favourable and catastrophe.
The only difference efforts of our London-based underwriters underwriting conditions will release it to now is that were leaders in those to grow our business across a broader investors if the time is right.
We are markets rather than new entrants.
The experience of insurers determined to give our investors a But the way weve grown and diversified from London seeking to build large-scale healthy return on capital.
Like all businesses we businesses in Europe has not been can often find ourselves talking in quite uniformly positive so we are proceeding abstract terms about things like Q: What is your perspective on cautiously, but we have been encouraged scalability or capital allocation.
But the the admission of new capital to the by the support we have received from real key to Beazleys success has been Lloyds market?
local brokers in many countries for a hiring good and knowledgeable people stronger Beazley presence.
and giving them the entrepreneurial A: The Lloyds market is constantly freedom to build a team and build a renewed and reinvigorated by the arrival Q: Beazleys investment returns business within the broader company.
of new capital providers and the creation Ive seen that happen countless times were lower than many peers in of new syndicates.
We welcome that since I joined Beazley in 2003.
and believe that the franchise board winning formula.
monitors prospective new entrants A: Beazley has a very capital efficient effectively.
The question really is: what business model.
The balance of our are the new entrants bringing?
If they Andrew Horton underwriting portfolio means we are looking to build a new market that Chief executive underwrite $2 of premiums for each $1 of isnt there already at Lloyds or is 8 February 2011 capital and, as a result of our portfolio mix, relatively small and inactive, thats generate $4 of invested assets for each great.
Thats what we did in 2008 when $1 of capital our peers are more like we established the first life syndicate at 3:1.
Beazley follows a relatively cautious Lloyds in twenty years and five more investment strategy which will result in life syndicates have since been formed.
lower than average investment returns in But if youre just setting up a me-too some market conditions.
However, this syndicate to write exactly the same strategy still translates into a good return business as everyone else, were less for shareholders due to gearing.
I hope and believe thats something that Tom Bolt, the 2010 was a year where we saw performance director and the franchise significant risks in asset markets.
As a board at Lloyds are alert to.
result we positioned our portfolio very conservatively.
