Credit markets will have an increasing role to play in providing funds to corporate and sovereign borrowers around the world, which further reinforces the structural opportunities available to BlueBay.
Much of the regulation is targeted at The Board is optimistic about BlueBays All asset managers are essentially people the banking sector, however, even for prospects for the years to come.
Over the years, BlueBay has non-banking firms such as BlueBay, the Groups solid cash position and its managed to assemble an exceptionally the challenges and constraints imposed by comfortable cushion of capital and talented group of professionals in the new regulations are likely to be significant.
reserves, we will be proposing an increase investment management, sales and But change also presents opportunities.
in the final dividend to 7.5 pence marketing and infrastructure teams.
The rapid deterioration in the public 2009: 4.8 pence per share payable I would like to thank them once again finances of many developed countries, to all shareholders on the register at for their creativity, enthusiasm and of which Greece is a recent prime example, 5 November 2010.
Finally, I would like to has redefined the approach to trading dividend of 7.5 pence per share, this will extend my thanks to our shareholders, their sovereign debt.
Good credit risk bring the total dividend for the year to both those who have been with us management skills are becoming an 15.0 pence per share 2009: 6.5 pence.
throughout the year as well as those increasingly important complement to more recent investors in the Group, good interest rate risk management skills.
There were no changes to the members for their ongoing confidence in us.
This creates a significant opportunity for of the Board or the Company Secretary a credit specialist such as BlueBay and the during the course of the year.
I am Hans-Jrg Rudloff Board is enthusiastic about our recently pleased to note that the Board continued Chairman announced plans to launch two new rates to provide BlueBay with constructive funds in the near future.
We believe that support, challenge and advice.
Areas that the increasing oversight and regulation were of particular focus for the Board of the banking sector will lead to an and its committees during the year acceleration of its disintermediation.
were the risk governance framework, Credit markets will have an increasing the remuneration strategy, overall role to play in providing funds to corporate corporate strategy and succession and sovereign borrowers around the world, planning.
The reviews of the various which further reinforces the structural committees contained later in this report opportunities available to BlueBay.
provide an overview of the various matters they have considered during the year.
09 Executive Summary Chief Executives Review Hugh Willis Alongside our product focus, we continue 2010 A year of strong recovery to invest heavily in our infrastructure: The 2010 financial year was a very believing that institutional investors will successful one for our company.
increasingly require from asset managers The recovery in credit markets that state-of-the-art technology, process, began in the second half of the previous compliance and risk management as financial year following the global a necessary corollary to strong investment financial crisis of 2008 accelerated as performance.
It remains our mission the new financial year began in July 2009. statement to combine the infrastructure This resulted in a further year of strong of a world-class asset manager with the asset growth and a robust rebound in investment mind-set of a boutique.
both operating margins and profitability at BlueBay.
The record inflows experienced The structural drivers behind our corporate during the year at $10.2 billion these strategy remain firmly in place some nine represented 42% of assets under years after the Groups formation: and management at the beginning of the continue to be bolstered by the growing period reflect the growing strength preference amongst liability-driven of the firms specialist fixed income investors as a function of both franchise and the calibre of its people.
demographics and the relative actuarial certainty of returns for fixed income Group strategy rather than equity investments.
This asset The Groups strategy continues to be allocation driver looks likely over the next to position itself as a leading, specialist few years, moreover, to be complemented manager of European corporate and global by a macro environment low rates, low emerging market debt funds and products.
growth and a global hunt for income that This reflects our belief in the structural should play well to the strengths of fixed growth prospects that exist for European income credit as an asset class.
The Groups corporate debt a major new global strategy, accordingly, remains unchanged.
asset class: and emerging market debt increasingly a mainstream asset class for institutional investors worldwide.
10 BlueBay Asset Management plc At the heart of our success was $10.2 billion of net inflows from our predominantly institutional and third party distributor investor base: reflecting its continuing confidence in BlueBay and appetite for its specialist fixed income product offerings.
of the firms institutional and third party four and eight percentage points over the 2010 Results distribution platforms alike.
Returns from BlueBays alternative 2010 was a strong year for BlueBay on period for long-only fund growth at funds rebounded strongly from a previous all financial metrics.
At the heart of our BlueBay, our suite of emerging market down year: with high yield, emerging success was $10.2 billion of net inflows products also attracted meaningful investor market and multi-strategy alternative funds from our predominantly institutional demand: with net inflows of $1.7 billion.
all delivering net returns for the year of and third party distributor investor base: With pleasing growth also in a number between 16 and 36 per cent.
Positive reflecting its continuing confidence in of the firms early stage long-only funds returns were also recorded for the firms BlueBay and appetite for its specialist fixed including convertible bonds, where new alternative fund launches: led by the income product offerings.
The resulting our new fund reached nearly $0.4 billion BlueBay Macro Fund, which produced revenue lift, coupled with the benefits of by year-end 2010 continued the a net return of 16% over its first eight cost controls imposed in late calendar year sequence of strong annual growth seen months of trading.
2008 and early 2009, drove a recovery in by BlueBay in this segment of its business both operating margins and profitability since inception.
The firms alternative As previously noted, group profitability to within a whisker of pre-crisis highs.
products were less successful in attracting returned very close to pre-crisis highs A significant reduction in performance fresh investment: with assets under in 2010: with total fee income up 36% fee dependency and an associated management in this product segment on the previous year at 137.4 million, improvement in quality of income in falling slightly over the year: as investors operating margins almost doubling to comparison with prior periods underscored returning to credit markets demonstrated 36% and pre-tax profits nearly tripling the robust health of the companys a preference for traditional over alternative to 49.7 million.
While operating margins finances at year-end.
and profitability in 2010 remained slightly below the highs recorded in 2007 and In terms of asset growth over the year, Investment performance over the year was 2008, the strong growth of the firms the stand out performer was the firms generally good.
Absolute returns were very long-only business in the intervening investment grade strategy: where an strong across our long-only fund platform: period has resulted in reduced performance outstanding long-term track record met with flagship funds returning between fee dependency and an improvement in strong early credit cycle demand to drive five and 27 per cent over the period.
BlueBays already net inflows of $8.6 billion.
Indeed the Outstanding relative returns were also strong, unleveraged balance sheet was BlueBay Investment Grade Bond Fund was delivered in long-only convertible and bolstered further over the year, despite ranked one of the most successful mutual emerging market bonds with the four a major increase in the dividends paid: funds in Europe as measured by annual flagship funds in the latter category with 90.1 million of free cash on the inflows over the period: a tribute both to outperforming their indices by between balance sheet by year-end.
the quality of the product and the strength 11 Executive Summary Chief Executives Review New products Outlook We have hired an 2010 saw a number of new product 2010 was a classic early credit cycle year: experienced portfolio launches in both the long-only and with investors returning to credit markets management team to alternatives spaces.
In long-only, these in strength, but making the bulk of their included a new European high yield allocations to the higher quality end of the lead the development of fund the BlueBay High Yield Corporate market.
For BlueBay, this meant significant a European government Bond Fund and BlueBays first long-only growth in its investment grade corporate asset allocation product the BlueBay bond business: with assets in this division bond business.
The first Global Diversified Corporate Bond Fund.
almost doubling over the financial year.
product launches are In alternatives, the new BlueBay Macro The last few months of the year began, Fund already referred to, was joined by the however, to produce evidence that the expected by December.
firms second distressed debt offering the new credit cycle was moving into its BlueBay European Distressed Opportunities second phase: one in which investors Fund.
All have made successful starts, begin to move out along the risk curve and in terms of both investment performance supplement their investment grade credit and investor demand, and reflect our holdings with smaller allocations to higher determination to build out our fund beta sectors of the asset class high yield platform wherever we feel institutional bonds, distressed debt, convertibles and investor demand and BlueBays abilities emerging markets.
It seems likely that this and resources might combine to produce trend will continue into, and dominate, relevant and profitable new offerings.
the new financial year: with flows into emerging market debt likely to be Looking forward, the first six months of dominant as investors react to the 2011 will see a significant acceleration converging credit profiles of developed of new fund launches.
In May 2010, and developing market debt engendered the firm announced that it had hired an by the sovereign debt crises of 2010. experienced portfolio management team to lead the development of a European At the same time, we expect returns government bond business to complement from credit markets, which significantly our successful investment grade corporate outpaced those from equity markets over bond offering: with the first product the first six months of calendar 2010, to launches in this new business area for continue to be competitive.
We anticipate, the firm expected to occur by December.
from a macro perspective, an extended A significant build out of the firms high period of low global growth ahead yield business is also underway: with the and believe that well-selected coupons firms first global high yield fund also slated will represent a superior source of riskfor a late 2010 launch and analysts being adjusted returns in such an environment.
hired in and relocated to our US office to Our prognoses for both flows and staff this initiative.
Further new launches investment returns have been borne out are also planned in the alternatives space: by results from the first two months of with the firms first UCITS alternatives fund the new financial year: with $850 million the BlueBay Emerging Markets Absolute of net inflows across a range of funds Return Fund launched in July and a approximately two thirds investment closed-end emerging markets special grade and one third emerging markets situations fund slated for later in the year.
and strong total returns from the asset 12 BlueBay Asset Management plc
