04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review Chief Executives report Increase in diluted NAV per share over the year 30.5% Performance over the year Since we converted to investment trust status in April 2003, we After two years of falling market values, the year ended have measured our NAV on a consistent basis.
Our diluted NAV 31 March 2010 saw a strong rebound in equity values.
As a result, per share over this period has signi cantly outperformed the FTSE our own diluted net asset value NAV per share increased by All-Share index in the last six out of seven years, with NAV per share 30.5%, largely offsetting the previous years fall.
However it is increasing by more than the index in growth years and declining disappointing to report that this gain nonetheless represented by less in the two years when markets have fallen.
This relative an underperformance of 16.2%, compared with the spectacular rise performance, in both bull and bear markets over the seven years, in the FTSE All-Share index of 46.7%.
This is the first time that we is shown in the chart below.
have underperformed in the seven years since we converted to 9 ajiZY C6K eZg h]VgZ h cXZ 6eg a '%% investment trust status in 2003.
"The principal cause for this relative 9 ajiZY C6K eZg h]VgZ underperformance has been our consistently conservative, but :IH: 6aa""H]VgZ gZWVhZY e robust, approach to investing, speci cally directed towards long ' %% term performance."
Our philosophy is to take signi cant long term stakes, usually with a board seat, in sound, well run companies.
The value of our holdings in such companies fell signi cantly less than &.
%% the equity market as a whole during the downturn, and hence had less ground to make up in the recovery phase.
Nevertheless, over & %% the longer term we continue to expect the total shareholder returns TSR of such companies to outperform their peers.. %% Our one year performance has also been restrained to '%% '%% '%% '%% '%%, '%%- '%%.
'%&% the extent that we have held cash and other low yield liquid investments.
Although such investments showed positive returns for the year, this was plainly much lower than the FTSE All-Share Signi cant changes in value over the year index gain of 46.7%.
In addition, we have had no investment Most of our investments have shown substantial gains during the exposure to the clearing banks which showed spectacular year.
Those gains of particular signi cance, where there has been recovery gains, nor to the mining sector whose index showed both a percentage gain of 50% or more, and an absolute gain of a gain of 105% in the year.
over 10m, are shown in the table below again measured on a We have maintained our progressive dividend policy by total return basis : increasing our annual dividend for the 43rd successive year.
Gain in value Investment m % Medium and long term performance Close Brothers 54.3 53 Over the five year period to 31 March 2010, our NAV per share Avanti Communications 24.6 99 increased in value by 32.9%, thereby showing both a positive Bristow Group 24.1 66 absolute gain, and outperformance compared with the FTSE Dewan Housing Finance 20.6 311 Alok Industries 15.6 112 All-Share index which increased by 18.4%.
However, as at Satellite Information Services 13.3 70 31 March 2010, the discount of our share price to NAV had TGE Marine 12.9 231 widened to 20.1% and, as a consequence, our five year TSR AG Barr 12.7 60 of 32.1% was below the FTSE All-Share TSR of 41.3%.
Serica Energy 10.9 99 As illustrated in the chart on page 1, our ten year TSR of 196.7% shows 167.0% outperformance when compared with the FTSE All-Share TSR of only 29.7% over this period.
Close Brothers is a specialist financial services group active in banking, securities trading and asset management.
It is our largest investment by value with a 13.6% shareholding.
During the year Preben Prebensen was appointed as the new CEO, and the group has taken advantage of favourable conditions, particularly for its specialist lending activities and its trading business, Winter ood Securities.
Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 05 Our philosophy of taking signi cant stakes in well run companies continues to deliver long term performance.
Avanti Communications is a UK listed satellite communications The table below shows those investments which fell in value business, in which we hold a 16.4% equity stake.
It has advanced by 1m or more, measured on a total return basis, over the year plans and full funding for two geo-stationary communications to 31 March 2010. satellites, and with the signing of further client contracts the Fall in value Investment m % substantial potential value creation is becoming re ected in the FTSE put options 14.4 84 share price.
Begbies Traynor 4.2 32 Bristow Group is a US listed helicopter operating business Celerant Consulting 4.0 18 mainly serving the offshore oil and gas sector, in which Caledonia Ermitage 3.7 34 holds a 6.6% stake.
The business is progressing well with Novae Group 1.6 9 international expansion, higher oil prices and the strengthening Tribal Group 1.6 16 of the US dollar against sterling all helping to increase its value.
Dewan Housing Finance, in which we have an 11.0% stake, During the year, and once we were con dent that the economic is an Indian listed housing finance company.
With strong growth recovery had begun, we closed out all of our FTSE put options.
We in its business and earnings per share, the share price has increased.
first commenced this value protection programme in June 2007 Alok Industries, in which we have a 12.1% stake, is an Indian listed when we had major concerns over the economy as a whole.
Since business whose principal activity is textile manufacturing.
The then we invested a total of 13.0m and realised 30.6m previous year had seen a signi cant fall in its share price, but with both gures excluding any re-investment of realisation proceeds, a large increase in its revenues and earnings as more manufacturing producing a net pre-tax gain of 17.6m.
This policy has therefore capacity came on stream, the share price has strengthened over been bene cial for shareholders during these tumultuous times in the year.
The gains from these two Indian investments were both providing a degree of protection against falling markets and also aided by the relative appreciation of the Indian rupee producing positive absolute returns.
However, with hindsight, against sterling.
ideally we should have closed out these protective options a few Satellite Information Services is an unquoted business, in months earlier.
which we have a 22.5% shareholding, provides outside broadcast, We have a 15.7% stake in Begbies Traynor, a UK listed production and satellite transmission services to UK and overseas corporate recovery and insolvency practitioner.
Over the year media customers, as well as being a major supplier of data to the its share price dropped by nearly 35% as the anticipated large UK and Irish betting industries.
The company delivered another increased trading activity derived from corporate bankruptcies year of increased pro ts.
However earnings from insolvency work is a We now have a 49.9% stake in TGE Marine, as a result of the protracted process and we believe the outlook for Begbies Traynor company being taken private during the course of the year.
is a Bonn-based business specialising in the design and build of Celerant Consulting, which is an unlisted UK based company liquid gas tankers for ship owners and, with the recovering world providing consultancy assistance in business ef ciency, and in economy and rising energy prices, the prospects for this company which our equity stake is 47.3%, had shown a large gain in value in have increased signi cantly.
A marked slow-down in revenues in the AG Barr is a UK listed soft drinks business in which we are an European side of its business has caused the reduction in value.
The company recently reported another year Ermitage is a Jersey-based fund of hedge funds business in of strong pro t growth and encouraging current trading.
which we currently have an equity stake of 91.7%.
Like most other Serica Energy is an oil and gas exploration and production similar businesses, the year saw a signi cant diminution in assets company in which we have a 14.4% stake.
During the year, the under management, leading to a drop in value.
company sold down some of its Asian assets, substantially reducing Novae is a UK listed Lloyds insurance business in which its debt.
This, coupled with rising oil prices, has led to a welcome gain we have a 7.2% stake.
Disappointing underwriting results for the in the share price and a reduction in its discount to net asset value.
first half of 2009 led to a fall in the share price.
Tribal Group is a UK listed company providing public sector services in the UK and internationally, in which we have an 11.0% stake.
Uncertainty over the impact of forthcoming cutbacks in government expenditure has led to the fall in its share price.
06 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review Chief Executives report Investment activity Outlook We started the year in a strong financial position with 55m of Although we have seen a tremendous rally in equity prices, the cash and 100m of term facilities committed to July 2013.
In view global economy continues to look fragile.
In the West, particularly of the uncertain economic conditions, we believed we should give the US and UK, governments are running huge fide cits which priority to investing at attractive prices in our existing portfolio are clearly unsustainable.
There is simply not going to be the investments where we know the company and management well, resurgence of economic growth in this part of the world to mask and where there were likely to be needs for further capital.
Indeed, the necessary medicine of government consequence, we invested about 114m in follow-on investments, expenditure cuts and or taxation increases will have a further and although we examined 80 new opportunities, we made only deleterious effect on growth.
There may well in time be a one new investment at an initial cost of about 2m.
This total resurgence of signi cant in ation.
In Asia and the Far East, the investment gure of 116m represented a signi cant 84% situation looks better, but we should not forget that much of their increase over the 63m invested in the previous year.
growth has been export led and fuelled by inward foreign Most nearly 70% of our realisations were in the second half of investment, and the rate of in ation in India remains a concern.
our financial year when equity markets had considerably improved.
In short, although we anticipate there to be continuing good Over the full 12 month period, we realised a total of around 84m investment opportunities, we need to maintain our cautious which was lower than the 99m we had realised in the previous stance.
It will be very dif cult for us to achieve the same degree year.
Further details on investments and realisations are shown in of TSR in real terms over the next ten years that we have achieved the financial review on page 19. over the past decade.
We will, nevertheless, continue to aspire to Our cash position at the end of the financial year was relative outperformance over the medium to long term, while approximately 8m, and the 100m of committed term bank also producing positive absolute returns.
My retirement Costs As the Chairmans statement has already mentioned, I will be We continue to keep a tight rein on costs, and once again our retiring after the AGM in July having spent just over eight years pre-tax total expenses ratio at 0.96% has been kept below our as Caledonias chief executive and therefore this will be my last target of 1% and is well below the investment trust average of 1.2%.
I have particularly enjoyed this role and have been privileged to have worked with so much talent in our investee Business philosophy companies.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank every Our core business philosophy of being a signi cant long term one of my colleagues at Caledonia who, together with all the supportive and constructively involved shareholder has continued.
managements of our investee companies, have been the people During the year, we have had board representation in 18 of our top who have created the shareholder value, and thereby made my 20 investments, a demonstration of real shareholder involvement job so enjoyable.
which, sadly, so often does not seem to happen elsewhere.
My successor, Will Wyatt, has worked for the Caledonia Nonetheless, it is time consuming and can pose logistical challenges.
group for 13 years and has established an outstanding record in For some time we have believed that economic growth investment performance he is an exceptionally astute investor.
prospects are looking more attractive in Asia and the Far East, He will, of course, be supported by a very able and experienced than in the West.
As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, over management team.
I will therefore be leaving the company in good the last five years we have built up considerable experience in this hands and I would underline my con dence in its future by adding region, both directly and indirectly through our 40% stake in IAP that I have no intention after my retirement of selling any of my Group, an investment advisory and fund management business personal shareholdings in Caledonia!
with operations in Mumbai and London.
In China, most of our investing has been through the private equity funds of Capital Today.
However, a Caledonia executive chairs the advisory boards of those funds, which again enhances our knowledge and understanding.
We believe therefore that we are becoming better placed to take advantage of value creating opportunities in these Tim Ingram fast growing regions.
