Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 02 Results and Dividend Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations was 121.3 million 2009: 113.7 million, a 7% increase year on year.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased marginally to 61.3p 2009: 60.5p and basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased 6% to 46.0p 2009: 43.6p.
Operating profit before tax from continuing operations of 99.3 million 2009: 88.3 million includes the impact of exceptional items of 15.0 million 2009: 6.0 million relating to the impairment of two group investments, which were impacted by the challenging economic environment.
Additionally, as a result of the continuation of difficult market conditions, a goodwill impairment 6.5 million 2009: 19.0 million was of taken in Asset Management.
The group retained a strong capital base with a core tier 1 capital ratio of 13.9% at 31 July 2010 31 July 2009: 14.8% and a total capital ratio of 15.8% 31 July Strone Macpherson Chairman 2009: 16.6%, despite 23% loan book growth during the period.
The strength of the groups capital position ensured adequate flexibility to support the Close Brothers Group has achieved a good overall groups existing businesses and, performance for the year.
combined with efficient capital allocation across the divisions, allowed the pursuit of growth opportunities.
The Banking division delivered a very strong result as The board is recommending a maintained it strengthened its leading position in its specialised final dividend of 25.5p 2009: 25.5p per share in cash, resulting in a total dividend lending businesses to deliver a record closing loan 39.0p.
for the year of 39.0p 2009: book and the divisions highest profit contribution to Divisional Performance date.
There was a continued good contribution by The Banking division delivered a very strong performance and returned its Securities driven by the good performance from highest ever adjusted operating profit of 79.5 million 2009: 54.0 million.
The Winterflood which is a leader in UK market-making.
loan book increased 23% to a record Asset Management is undergoing a transformation 2.9 billion 2009: 2.4 billion.
The division benefited from the strength and is positioning itself to become a leading provider of its market position across its niche businesses and its solid and diverse of UK wealth and asset management services.
This has been achieved whilst retaining its disciplined approach to lending.
As a result the net interest The group remains strongly capitalised and is % 2009: 9.4% margin increased to 9.7 and adjusted operating income well positioned to take advantage of future increased 15% to 272.0 million 2009: growth opportunities.
A modest improvement in economic conditions saw a reduction in impairment losses on loans and advances as a percentage of the average loan book to 2.4% 2009: 2.6%, driven by the Retail businesses.
indd 2 29 9 10 20:47:57 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 03 The group is well positioned to take advantage of future growth opportunities.
Preben Prebensen Chief Executive The Securities division delivered another Seydler had an improved performance The Asset Management division had a good performance with adjusted with adjusted operating profit growth to subdued performance for the year and operating profit of 59.3 million 2009: 4.9 million 2009: 1.5 million offset by reported adjusted operating profit of 3.3 64.9 million.
This reflected an improved more challenging market conditions for million 2009: 12.0 million as the division performance in Winterflood and Close Mako.
Reduced volumes, particularly commenced a period of transformation Brothers Seydler Bank Seydler.
The in the later stages of the year, led to a and investment for future growth.
While 9% reduction in the year was a result of reduction in Makos contribution to 5.7 overall operating income was marginally a lower contribution from the groups million 2009: 16.1 million relative to the higher at 97.0 million 2009: 95.0 associate Mako which had an exceptional prior period performance million this was predominately due to exceptional prior year performance.
which benefited from high volumes and one-off investment gains of 6 million on volatility immediately following the the divisions residual interest in a private Winterflood retained its position as the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
leading market-maker to the UK retail stockbroking industry, trading record Closing Funds under Management volumes, with over 46,000 2009: FuM increased 9% to 7.4 billion 42,000 bargains per trading day.
31 July 2009: 6.8 billion reflecting However, there was a reduction in positive market movements as equity income per bargain to 11.18 2009: markets recovered.
The Private Clients 11.98 over the period.
Winterflood business achieved a net new funds flow increased its profitability and recorded of 221.1 million 31 July 2009: 161.2 only four 2009: seven loss days out of a million during the year and 16% 31 July total of 252 2009: 253 trading days.
Overall, adjusted operating profit was up 3% to 48.7 million 2009: 47.3 million, a ten year high for the business.
indd 3 29 9 10 20:47:58 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives statement continued 04 Strategy The group is focused on developing its The group is focused on developing three key business areas: its three key business areas.
The Banking division is a leader in specialised finance in the UK: Securities, largely through Winterflood, is a leader in UK market-making: and Asset Management is investing to become a leader in UK wealth and asset management.
We have a clear strategy for each of these businesses.
Going forward, the Banking division will As a result, market share in asset In the smaller Securities businesses, retain its specialised and disciplined financing has risen from 4% to 6%.
Seydler is well positioned for the approach to lending and seek to grow Invoice financing is focused on development of the Frankfurt floor based developing its sales team to target larger trading platform and a recovery in equity market share without compromising deals and, during the 2010 financial year, and debt capital markets activity.
Mako levels of profitability and margins.
To acquired a 93.8 million loan book which continues to have a strong position in its support this growth, the division is now fully integrated.
As a result, this core derivatives market-making business streamlined its structure, strengthened business now has around 13% of the and sees growth opportunities in its its management team, developed new independent market, up from 8% twelve investment management activity, and existing product lines, added front months ago.
predominantly through Pelagus Capital, line loan origination capacity and its fixed income relative-value fund.
extended its branch network in the UK.
Property will continue to actively maintain its leading market position in Asset Management has carried out Retail, comprising motor and insurance residential development lending by focused research and evaluated its core premium financing, is seeking ways to prudently lending to clients who are strengths, capabilities and opportunities grow its existing offering and develop attracted by its local knowledge and in the external environment and now has new products.
It has expanded into new development expertise.
During the year a clear strategy to create a high growth, geographies with the addition of a it also expanded its business by opening wealth and asset management business branch in the South West of England an office in Scotland.
and services into Northern Ireland.
It is also adding to front line staff including In Securities, Winterflood will seek to The focus of this business will be affluent the establishment of a team focused on maintain its leading position in the UK and high net worth investors in Private new car and franchise dealers.
It will support and Clients, as well as smaller institutions, this resulted in an increase in market grow its existing core business, as a such as family offices and charitable share within the independent used car London Stock Exchange registered endowments, through the divisions market from 5% to 9% over the past market-maker in over 3,300 UK Institutional offering.
Personal lines continue securities, by leveraging its trading and Administration will continue to be to drive the insurance premium business, expertise and proprietary technology focused on trust and administration for which now has close to 5% share of the platform.
overall market and a substantial share of the independent market.
Winterflood will also explore The strategy will build on the divisions opportunities to expand its business investment track record: around Commercial is successfully expanding incrementally in other markets.
It will 7 billion of FuM, 22,000 existing clients its asset and invoice financing seek to capture US and European order and the Close Brothers brand.
The businesses through a combination of flow by selectively expanding its Private Clients offering will provide acquisition and organic growth initiatives capabilities and resources into those advice seeking clients with high quality, and by investing in sales personnel.
It will also promote its expertise holistic advice, financial planning and It is also actively growing the middle to asset managers who wish to discretionary services.
It will also provide ticket leasing business and during the outsource dealing and execution self-directed clients with a range of web year, also expanded its operations into services to a specialist provider.
and telephone-based services to enable Northern Ireland.
them to manage their own wealth.
This combination of services will position the business to become a leader in wealth management in the UK.
indd 4 29 9 10 20:47:58 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 05 The Institutional strategy is at an earlier Outlook stage.
The business has already The group has made a sound start to consolidated its investment the 2011 financial year.
management processes including the integration of hedge fund multi-manager, In the Banking division, we see Fortune.
It has also developed common continued good loan book growth.
multi-asset, multi-manager investment propositions to service both private and The Securities division has made a more institutional clients, and will invest across modest start to the year reflecting current long-only and hedge funds, structured market conditions.
products as well as equities and bonds.
The Asset Management division is The division sees a significant likely to deliver a small loss for the year opportunity to service and acquire as the investment in the strategy clients from independent financial continues, particularly in the Private advisors IFAs who are exiting the Clients business.
market as a result of regulatory change.
During the year the division entered into Overall, we expect the group to deliver a its first agreement with an IFA to acquire satisfactory performance for the year.
client assets of up to 50 million.
In the period since 31 July 2010 the division also acquired Chartwell Group Limited, an IFA business based in Bristol with over 650 million of client assets and good links into the South West of England.
It is anticipated that the total non-recurring investment spend of the Private Client proposition and platform development, will be in the range of 18 to 20 million, of which 6 million has been incurred during the 2010 financial year and a further 10 million will be invested in the 2011 financial year.
These initiatives will take time until their potential is fully realised.
The investment will be modest in the context of the overall group and is expected to result in a significant contribution by the division to the group in the medium term.
