CHieF exeCutives review traDing overview 2010 was a year of recovery for bodycote after the difficulties of the downturn in 2009. sales grew by 14.8% to 499.8m with like for like sales at constant currencies and rebased to take account of the sites closed in 2009 up 17.8%.
Much of the sales growth was driven by the end of oeM supply chain destocking and increased end market demand with strong growth from the general industrial, oil and gas and, in particular, the automotive and heavy truck segments.
these developments more than offset the decline in demand in power generation.
demand improvements in aerospace and defence also contributed to the sales growth but only marginally.
it is noteworthy, however, that all of the Groups markets are still materially below 2008 levels.
in addition to increases in end market demand, sales improved as a result of notable gains in market share.
the most marked of these share gains was in the automotive segment where the latest technologies offered by bodycote are supplanting more traditional forms of heat treatment.
the drive for efficiency in the Group yielded excellent results.
total headcount at the end of 2010 of 5,487 was marginally below that of a year earlier and 28% below the peak headcount of june 2008. the year end headcount was 311 lower than the number at half year as the tail end restructuring programmes in France and brazil came into effect.
the tight discipline on the build back of expenses against a backdrop of rising sales drove margins up to 10.4% 1.8% in 2009. increased selling prices contributed 100 basis points to the margins, offset by 70 basis points of increased input costs.
net capital expenditure at 35.8m amounted to 0.8 times depreciation stephen harris 0.6 in 2009. approximately half of the expenditure in 2010 0.4 times Chief executive depreciation was spent on developing capacity in emerging markets, increasing capacity for specific high added value processes in north america and investing in the Groups chosen proprietary technologies.
the remainder of the capital expenditure was spent on maintenance.
the reorganisation of the Group is relatively well equipped with long life assets and has a low requirement for maintenance capital in the short and medium the Group into market term.
the level of capital expenditure, combined with strong control focused divisions has of working capital, led to headline operating cash flow of 77.3m, representing a cash conversion ratio of 148%.
as a result, net debt enhanced revenue growth at the year end was reduced to 51.3m.
strategiC Developments and careful targeting of as well as the drive for increased sales and higher levels of operating efficiency, 2010 was a year of implementation of the strategic agenda capital investment has outlined in February of that year.
improved cash flow and at the end of 2009 the Group was reorganised into two business areas.
the aerospace, defence and energy business ade is organised return on capital.
on a global basis, and comprises the Hot isostatic pressing Hip and heat treatment divisions.
the Groups surface technology business is part of the ade heat treatment division.
in contrast, the automotive and general industrial business aGi is organised geographically, covering western europe, north america and the emerging markets.
Customer reaction to the reorganisation has been very positive, with industry specialist sales teams able to engage with their customers in a far more productive way than was possible in the past.
in addition, the specialisation of the plants in each business area has helped simplify the operations and improve efficiency.
12 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts development of the emerging markets and investment in bodycotes outsourcing remains a major opportunity for the Group.
agreements chosen proprietary technologies are key elements of the strategy.
are typically framework in nature, with standard terms and conditions the emerging markets focus for bodycote is on eastern europe, and a commitment to sole source the work from bodycote.
pricing is brazil and China.
while emerging markets revenues represent just normally defined as a base level with prices linked to various indices over 10% of the Groups business today, bodycote is already the such as the cost of energy.
market leader in eastern europe and brazil and number two in China.
Going forward it is expected that the pace of outsourcing and size of in 2010 new greenfield sites were added in poland, Czech republic outsource contracts will increase.
this is due not only to the general and brazil, while additional modern capacity was deployed in existing tendency of companies to eliminate non core activities over time, but plants in turkey, brazil and China.
also to two other significant factors.
the development of the Groups proprietary technologies continued the rising cost of energy.
bodycote is typically more energy apace in 2010: efficient than manufacturers that process the work in-house the speciality stainless steel business unit s3p capacity was and can balance the load in its process lines by aggregating expanded by 20%, with a further 25% put on order in readiness work from several customers.
level loading, in itself, is a much for the increased demand now expected for this business.
more efficient way of operating thermal processing plants than the fluctuating load conditions faced by most manufacturers the Hot isostatic pressing product Fabrication business unit in-house facilities.
as a result, rising energy prices tend to drive Hip pF grew at 70%, albeit from a relatively modest base.
the business operates from centres of excellence in Germany, sweden and the usa with much of the process development the general move of manufacturing industries to emerging and computer modelling carried out in the uK and the usa.
this not only creates opportunities in emerging markets for bodycote to serve these customers, but also the Corrosion prevention processes business unit Cpp provides a source of opportunity in developed economies.
commissioned its first commercial production unit for the this is because most customers that move their manufacturing sheraCote family of processes.
to emerging markets tend not to close their facilities completely progress was also made on developing the Groups personnel both in the developed economies.
instead, these facilities stop being internally and through the appointment of new talent in many areas.
expanded and have investment constrained.
the capital intensive in addition, the Groups executive committee was also strengthened nature of thermal processing means that such facilities often with new talent recruited during the year.
the committee comprises become undercapitalised or outmoded and outsourcing becomes five divisional presidents, the Human resources director and the an attractive option.
the choice of companies capable of taking Group Finance director, together with the Chief executive officer, on such outsourced work in a reliable way is small, and bodycote who chairs the committee.
becomes the preferred partner for most of the customer base.
future trenDs summary & outlook the future trends for bodycotes markets are very favourable.
2010 saw a notable and pleasing improvement in the performance the more notable trends include: of the Group.
better macro economic conditions were an important contributor to this and the underlying ability of the business to deliver in the aerospace segment most industry analysts foresee a consistently superior value has been strengthened considerably.
significant growth in flying hours and new build of aeroplanes total revenue growth was well ahead of market improvement.
associated with traffic for the emerging markets.
the move to the reorganisation of the Group into market focused divisions has higher engine operating temperature requirements increases enhanced revenue growth and careful targeting of capital investment thermal processing needs.
these are all positive factors for has improved cash flow and return on capital.
the demand for thermal processing.
rising oil and gas prices, together with the increasing looking at 2011, it is anticipated that automotive and general sophistication associated with extracting difficult to reach industrial business will continue to grow at a reasonable pace.
reserves, are increasing the material requirements of exploration aerospace, defence and energy demand has begun to recover, and production equipment, which in turn is driving greater although within this the power generation segment remains soft, demand for thermal processing services.
with the timing of improvement still unclear.
in summary, the board is confident that 2011 will be another year of growth for bodycote, power generation, where bodycote enjoys a strong presence albeit at a less rapid rate than experienced in 2010. the year has in both heat treatment and Hip services, will resume its long started in line with these expectations.
looking further out, the board term growth path in due course, as the expansion in the sees encouraging opportunities for improved through-cycle returns.
the automotive segment is moving to more sophisticated materials engineering as manufacturers try to reduce weight and increase strength.
this in turn directly increases the amount of thermal processing required.
in addition, the introduction of hybrid vehicles is leading to a larger number of components in vehicles, which in turn require more services offered by bodycote.
s. C. harris Chief executive 24 February 2011 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 13
