Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 cHief executives revieW Booker continues to make good progress.
We continue to build our entry price Booker continues in november 2005 we outlined our plan range for caterers with our Booker to focus, drive and broaden the business.
We have recently to make good launched tinned tomatoes, baked beans that plan continues on track: progress and our and ketchup.
sales are up 28% year on FOCUS year, selling 50m per annum.
plan to focus, drive commenced November 2005 in 2008 we launched exclusive lichfields We continue to improve business efficiency and broaden the luxury individual portion packs ideal for and cash management.
throughout the hotels and pubs.
this range extended business is on track business we are seeking to stop, simplify in 2009 with the launch of fair trade and standardise work so that we enhance coffee sticks and British farm assured customer service whilst improving efficiency.
Milk sticks, has proved very popular with through tight cash management we ended sales of 10m per annum, an increase the year with net cash of 7m compared to of 38%.
net debt of 25m at the end of the previous Prices Down financial year.
our pricing has remained competitive.
in DRIVE spite of increases in commodity prices, we have managed to reduce the price commenced April 2006 EUro ShoPPEr of bread, milk and other essentials.
We During the year we served 431,000 have developed targeted promotions to customers, an increase of 17,000 help our customers drive sales at special customers versus last year.
these include chinese new than 40,000 customers each year to see Year, Back to college and spring clean, how each branch and product category which have all proved popular.
customer satisfaction for choice, price and service has improved Better Service during the year: Booker is now the uKs largest catering butcher.
We regularly hold Meet the Choice Up Butcher week in branches giving the following improvements to the range, customers the opportunity to discuss fresh departments are doing particularly their catering needs with their local well with sales of fruit and vegetables branch butcher.
During these weeks up 54% in the year.
we have cookery demonstrations, free euro shopper, launched in July 2007, stock give-aways and tastings.
is one of the uKs fastest growing all branch staff are trained on priDe convenience brands with sales of our programme to improve parking, more than 40 million per annum at reception, internal, delivery and exit wholesale prices.
the range now has experiences for customers.
48 products, which allows retailers to our branch delivery service is growing benefit from great quality products at and improving.
More than 16,000 retailers purchase euro shopper every Catering week and the brand has proved popular improvements continue to be made with shoppers.
recent launches include to the catering offer resulting in a 3% cornflakes, tissues, bleach, chewing increase in new customers and a gum and noodle snacks.
in 2009, euro growth in sales to caterers of 9.1%.
shopper energy Drink won product of We are now selling over 1 billion of the Year at the prestigious convenience supplies to caterers per annum.
4 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 We have strengthened our catering BROADEN Booker distributed Development team, which is dedicated commenced April 2007 to help caterers grow their businesses, We continue to broaden Booker.
797m of product from 50 to 75 people over the last to our customers two years.
this team, many of whom Improving the cash and carry have worked as chefs, publicans and experience premises this caterers, are experts in developing in 2006 we converted our first extra customers businesses.
By March 2010, 91 of the uKs year versus 173 branches had been converted to Premier 679m last year the extra format.
the key features are premier, Bookers symbol group, a lighter, brighter branch environment continues to go from strength to and improved layout, signage and strength and is well on the way to ranges.
our customers much prefer becoming the uKs biggest and best the environment.
in the year the estate pays back in around a year.
We plan grew from approximately 2,200 to to convert a further 20 extras in the 2,500 stores.
sales to premier customers grew in the Increased delivered wholesale year by approximately 13% to 620m Booker distributed 797m of product 2009: 550m.
to our customers premises this year We relaunched premier in March 09, versus 679m last year.
about 90% of which has been well received by retailers this is delivered via the cash and carry and suppliers.
Greater emphasis is now branches and 10% from the Booker placed on bringing the premier stores distribution centres.
Booker Direct closer to the local community, and serves national accounts.
it is the uKs ensuring the store is ranged to meet largest food supplier to the cinema the needs of the local consumer.
other customers include HM prisons, Marks and spencer and we have recently started supplying the naafi.
EXTrA BrANCh Before after 5 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 cHief executives revieW continued progress further in the future to Internet Booker has become Butchery Managers.
this our website is market leading in the first group completed their training in wholesale sector and is continually helped customers august 2009 and currently there are a being developed to make it simpler, to prosper in a further 52 colleagues who are on the easier and faster for customers to use.
sales were 407m this year versus difficult economic last year at 250m.
the site is tailored Sustainability to the local branch and customer environment Booker was the first food wholesaler requirements.
customers can see to be awarded the carbon trust recent orders, make shopping lists and standard.
view new promotions and products.
Booker has now recycled over 1.5 Booker India million litres of catering customers We opened our first branch in india used cooking oil.
at our regional in september 2009. the offer in the distribution centre in Hatfield we Mumbai branch is tailored to suit the generate renewable electricity from needs of the indian market.
all the stock used cooking oil.
is purchased in india and 99% of the recycling increased by 13% and we colleagues are local.
We now have sent 10% less to landfill in spite of the approximately 4,000 customers who 6.5% increase in sales.
are either kirana stores or caterers.
the customer reaction has been excellent.
in in summary, our plan to focus, drive the 2011 financial year we plan to open and broaden Booker continues to make a further branch in Mumbai and test the good progress.
By improving the choice, opening of a franchised Booker branch price and service we offer to the 431,000 in another city with a local partner.
We businesses we serve, Booker has helped believe that outside Mumbai expansion customers to prosper in a difficult economic with partners could accelerate the rollenvironment.
this has helped us grow sales out whilst tailoring our offer to local by 6.5% and operating profits by 15%, markets.
this will help Booker offer the whilst eliminating net debt.
best choice, price and service for the internet sales have again grown strongly, kirana store and caterer.
while Booker Direct has had another the focus, Drive, Broaden plan is facilitated good year with more contract wins.
the by people development and by improving opening of our first store in india has been the sustainability of the business.
successful and we plan to open a further BookEr INDIA two stores in the year ahead.
People Development all branch colleagues are trained in successful independent retailers, pubs, priDe parking, reception, internal, nursing homes and cafes are crucial to Delivery, and exit.
this programme communities throughout the uK and was designed by branch colleagues we look forward to continuing to serve to help improve customer service and these customers in the year ahead.
While has made a real impact.
the outlook for the economy remains there is a shortage of butchers in challenging, we are confident that Booker the trade and as a result we have will continue to make progress by helping trained over 40 colleagues to start our customers to thrive.
all of these Charles Wilson colleagues had previously held other positions within branches and could Chief Executive 6
