15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 4 04 Business Review F&C Asset Management Chief Executives Report In the UK retail market we continued to focus primarily on our multiMarket Overview manager and lifestyle funds while building the profile of our property, As we anticipated in our 2009 Annual Report, 2010 saw a slow UK and European equity products.
recovery in the economy after the recession of the previous year, with progress dogged by concerns over rising inflation and the Encouragingly, we saw 621 million of gross sales into Thames potentially stifling impact of deficit reduction measures on growth.
River products during the four months post-completion which included the first institutional mandate win for their Water & Despite the challenging macroeconomic backdrop, equity markets Agriculture team.
continued to make strong progress for a second calendar year in succession with the FTSE 100 Index posting a total return of Business Flows ex.
and numerous indices returning to pre-credit crisis 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 levels.
This strong performance from equity markets reflected the m m m m m healthy position of many companies having strengthened their Inflows 6,140 3,459 3,925 6,454 6,496 balance sheets and the relative attractiveness of dividends Outflows 5,868 7,200 10,165 10,445 15,109 compared to government bond yields.
Net flows In contrast, fixed income markets and the Euro currency were ex.
Insurance 272 3,741 6,240 3,991 8,613 overshadowed by the spectre of government indebtedness and the risk of defaults in European countries such as Greece, Ireland and Financial Results Portugal.
This prompted European Union rescue packages for both Greece and Ireland and the introduction of severe austerity Net revenues were 243.2 million 2009: 225.1 million.
included performance related management fees of 12.9 million 2009: 18.7 million.
Against this mixed market backdrop the Group saw its assets under management rise to 105.8 billion 31 December 2009: 97.8 Operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible assets, billion which included 4.2 billion from the acquisition of Thames exceptional items and foreign exchange losses, were 175.0 million River Capital in September 2010.
We saw positive returns across all 2009: 166.6 million.
These include the additional cost base of major asset classes equities, fixed income and property while 12.6 million arising from the acquisition of Thames River, foreign currency movements had a negative impact on AUM across 6.0 million of which was in respect of distributions payable to the year given our exposure to Eurozone based clients.
Continuing the downward trend of the last three years core operating expenses in the legacy F&C business Investment Performance were further reduced by 4.2 million compared to 2009.
Relative investment performance was positive across most teams The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring during the year, with three year track records continuing to be cost items which are excluded from our underlying results.
On an asset-weight basis 72 per cent.
of fixed income, included corporate advisory costs associated with the acquisition of 63 per cent.
of property assets are Thames River and the aborted acquisition of C-Quadrat, costs above agreed benchmarks over three years.
associated with the subsequent integration of Thames River, legal expenses and certain share-based payment costs.
Offset against Business Flows these, and also excluded from underlying results, are gains from Having rebuilt three year investment track records and significantly foreign exchange movements and exceptional gains from improved our position with investment consultants, 2010 saw a restructuring our pension benefits.
turnaround in business flows with a return to net positive inflows, excluding insurance assets.
This was underpinned by a 77.5 per As a result of increased revenues and reduced costs, the Group cent.
increase in gross new business, excluding insurance, to 6.1 increased its underlying operating profit excluding foreign exchange billion 2009: 3.5 billion and much reduced outflows, which were movements for 2010 to 69.2 million 2009: 59.9 million, resulting at their lowest level in several years.
We ended the year with an in an increased underlying operating margin of 28.5% 2009: additional pipeline of institutional mandates totalling 1.5 billion 26.6%.
Key institutional products included liability driven Underlying earnings per share for the year were 5.9 pence investment mandates, equity-linked bond funds, emerging market 2009: 5.8 pence.
We also raised significant commitments for German property mandates, ranking as the top On a statutory basis, which includes amortisation and exceptional capital raiser for property Spezialfonds source: BVI.
We expect to items, the Group made a loss after tax of 13.4 million 2009: profit see the majority of these funds invested during 2011. of 18.7 million.
A substantial element of the year-on-year movement is attributable to the exceptional gain of 27.9 million on The quality of new institutional business continued to improve the 2009 debt exchange transaction.
reflecting our focus on specialist products, with the average fee margin on institutional inflows some 39 per cent.
higher than those on outflows.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 5 F&C Asset Management Chief Executives Report Business Review 05 A key project was the merger of the F&C and Thames River retail Statement of Financial Position multi-manager ranges, which completed in December, removing one The Group closed the year with 178.8 million of shareholders cash of the few areas of direct product overlap.
The UK fund of funds reserves and net debt of 95.9 million.
A significant proportion of the segment has been growing at twice the rate of the broader market shareholders cash reserves are held in our regulated subsidiaries and our recently combined multi-manager business, with assets of against their capital requirements.
1.5 billion, is the second largest in the UK IFA market.
This leaves Gross debt of 275 million 2009: 265 million comprises us well positioned to help IFAs address some of the challenges 125 million of subordinated loan notes and 150 million of senior arising from the Financial Services Authoritys Treating Customers loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants.
The Fairly initiative and the implementation of the recommendations of 150 million senior loan notes include a 20 million issue the Retail Distribution Review by providing adviser firms with a undertaken in September 2010 to repay a loan facility provided robust investment process which provides their clients with access to part-finance the acquisition of Thames River.
to best of breed funds from across the industry.
We expect to see IFAs increasingly advising clients to transfer existing portfolios of As part of our strategy we intend to reduce net debt over individual funds into multi-manager products, as well as greater use the medium term.
of multi-manager funds for new investments.
Business Developments Progress has also been made introducing Thames River capabilities F&C manages significant assets for insurance-led clients under to the institutional market, with initial interest focused on the Global contractual arrangements which carry certain exclusivity rights Bond, Water & Agriculture and Funds of Alternative Investment extending out to between October 2013 and October 2015 at which Funds products.
point they typically revert to notice periods of between 6 and 12 Thames River generated 1.8 million of performance fees in its first months.
During the year we set out three medium-term strategic four months as part of the Group.
At 31 December 2010 some 65 priorities for the Group ahead of the maturity of these contracts: per cent.
of Thames River funds which incorporate performance fee Grow new revenues and further diversify the Group beyond its structures were at, or within 5 per cent.
of, their high water marks.
insurance client base In our 2009 Annual Report we confirmed that we had completed the Create a more flexible cost base that will adjust more readily to major infrastructure projects initiated in 2007, including the any changes in our business mix consolidation of our operations onto a single platform.
Following this and the acquisition of Thames River we have undertaken significant Improve capital strength by targeting the reduction of debt on work to develop a new operational model that will more readily our balance sheet adjust to future changes in F&Cs business mix as we focus on A key development in our revenue diversification strategy was the diversifying the business and cater for evolving client needs.
completion of our acquisition of Thames River in September 2010.
As part of the implementation of this model, we have reached Following the Thames River acquisition, on a run-rate basis some Heads of Terms with a leading specialist provider on an outsourcing 75 per cent.
of revenues are now derived from non-insurance clients arrangement for certain back office and middle office functions.
We and we believe the organic growth potential of the Group has expect to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the second been enhanced.
The outsourcing project is expected to reduce our Thames River has provided the Group with complementary product operations staff headcount by around 70 per cent.
as well as and distribution capabilities.
In particular it has added expertise in reorganise certain other functions around the new model.
This absolute return strategies, principally through UCITS III fund restructuring programme, which does not affect the staffing of structures, has enabled a step-change in the scale of our multiinvestment, distribution or client servicing functions, will create an manager business and has added proven distribution in the wealth operational cost base that varies with assets under management management sector, an area where our presence had been limited.
and transaction levels and is expected, once fully implemented, to UCITS absolute return funds and retail multi-manager products are generate annualised savings of at least 12 million, including two areas of the funds industry experiencing strong growth.
3 million from reduced premises costs.
We anticipate the first of these savings will be realised later this year, with the full savings Thames River has been successfully integrated into the Group and achieved in 2013. is now positioned as the Funds Business of F&C with responsibility for the distribution of all open-ended fund products from across the Group into the retail and wholesale client channels.
A trade paper advertising campaign commenced in the fourth quarter, along with a series of marketing roadshows in the UK and Europe.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 6 06 Business Review Chief Executives Report F&C Asset Management Major building blocks for a recovery in our underlying profitability Outlook and Summary have been put in place, with progress in diversifying our sources of In our view the macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging revenue, improved fund flows at higher average fee margins and the and we therefore see the potential for continued volatility in global planned migration to a new operational model which will lower our markets.
Growth remains anaemic in the UK and high public deficits expense base and generate future cost flexibility.
Furthermore, to across the developed world are multi-year problems that have only maximise the delivery of shareholder value, the Board is conducting just begun to be tackled.
Inflation is a growing concern across the a review of the Groups strategy which we will report on in due globe and rising commodity prices add to the risk of social and course.
In the meantime, our operational focus for 2011 will be to political unrest in developing markets, such as we have seen sustain competitive investment track records, gather momentum in recently across North Africa and the Middle East.
These improving fund flow trends and accelerate the cross-selling of uncertainties are a timely reminder of the importance of being a products between F&C and Thames River.
well diversified business by sources of revenue and asset class and with a product set that can take advantage of the opportunities available at various points in the cycle as client needs and risk appetites change.
On 6 January 2011 the Board wrote to shareholders with notice of a General Meeting requisitioned on behalf of funds managed by Sherborne Investors GP, LLC.
The purpose of the General Meeting Alain Grisay was to vote on Resolutions to remove two Directors, including the Chief Executive then Chairman, and elect three new Directors.
At the General Meeting on 3 February all these Resolutions were supported 9 March 2011 by shareholders.
With the Board having been reconstructed in accordance with the wishes of shareholders and the appointment of Ed Bramson as Chairman, the Board and management team are focused on the future success of the business.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
