Business review Yet, just days before the accident, I had been reflecting on the progress made by BP.
The company had put safe and reliable operations at the Group chief centre of everything, and we had turned a corner on financial performance.
A subsea blowout in deep water was seen as a very, very low-probability event, by BP and the entire industry but it happened.
executives letter Following the accident, a search-and-rescue operation was carried out by the rigs owner, Transocean, together with BP and the US Coast Guard.
This continued for four days and covered 5,000 square miles.
On 22 April 2010 the Deepwater Horizon sank, and a major oil spill response was activated.
At its peak this involved the mobilization of some 48,000 people, the deployment of around 2,500 miles of boom and the Dear fellow shareholder co-ordination of more than 6,500 vessels.
Field operations brought together experts from key agencies, organizations and BP.
Thousands of our people flew in from around the world and stayed and worked for weeks and The tragic events of 2010 will forever be written in months.
Nearly 500 retirees from BP America called up to say they wanted the memory of this company and the people who to help.
This was an extraordinary response.
The explosion and fire on the As the response developed, the problems grew in complexity and scale.
Tackling the leak on the seabed demanded groundbreaking technical Deepwater Horizon rig shocked everyone within advances and dauntless spirit.
We also found ourselves in the midst of BP, and we feel great sadness that 11 people died.
intense political and media scrutiny.
We received incredible support and faced tremendous criticism, but our priorities remained clear provide We are deeply sorry for the grief felt by their support to the families and friends of those 11 men who died, stop the families and friends.
We know nothing can restore leak, attack the spill, protect the shore, support all the people and places the loss of those men.
We also committed to carry out an immediate and detailed internal investigation.
The accident on 20 April 2010 turned into an As a responsible party, under the Oil Pollution Act, we knew we unprecedented oil spill with deep consequences would face wide-ranging claims and potential fines, but we resolved to go beyond what the law required of us.
We made swift payments to support for jobs, businesses, communities, the local economies, and gave a total of $138 million in direct state grants environment and our industry.
From this grew a during 2010, which included behavioural health programmes.
We set up the corporate crisis that threatened the very existence $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust to meet individual, business, government, local and state claims, and natural resource damages.
And it all started in a part of the provided $500 million for the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, which is world thats very close to my heart.
I grew up in funding independent research to investigate impacts on affected ecosystems.
And we contributed to a $100-million fund to support rig Mississippi, and spent summers with my family workers hit by the drilling moratorium.
swimming and fishing in the Gulf.
I know those To meet our financial commitments, we announced the sale of up beaches and waters well.
When I heard about to $30 billion in assets and, by the end of 2010, had agreed to $22 billion of disposals.
We have also cut back on discretionary capital spending and the accident I could immediately picture how it secured additional credit lines.
The sound underlying performance across might affect the people who live and work along our business continues to give us a solid foundation, and speaks volumes for the inner strengths of BP and our people.
As part of our response, we took the decision to cancel further dividends in 2010.
While we know that many shareholders rely on their regular payments, we also had to protect the company and secure its long-term future.
The board of BP took this decision with a heavy heart, but I believe it was the right thing to do in truly exceptional circumstances.
Our investigation report was published on 8 September 2010, and found that no single factor caused the accident.
The report stated that decisions made by multiple companies and work teams contributed to the accident, and these arose from a complex and interlinked series of mechanical, human judgement, engineering design, operational implementation and team interface failures.
We have accepted and are implementing the reports recommendations.
We are also sharing what we have learned with governments and others in our industry, and we are co-operating with a series of other investigations, inquiries and hearings.
2010 stands as an inflexion point for BP and our industry, and it is right that we should help lead the development of better ways to operate in deep water.
Good risk identification and management is integral to becoming safer, and we are working with governments, service contractors and industry peers to take risk management and equipment design to the next level.
Within BP, we have introduced more layers of protection and resilience, with our new safety and operational risk function empowered to intervene in any operation.
To enhance our specialist expertise and risk management, we have re-organized our upstream business into three divisions Exploration, Developments and Production.
To encourage excellence in risk management throughout the organization, 10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review we are reviewing how we incentivize and reward people.
And to think hard In February 2011 we announced a second historic agreement.
This will, about what was previously unthinkable, we are looking further afield for subject to completion, see BP and Reliance work together across the gas insight and wisdom.
I have spent time with experts from the nuclear and value chain in the fast-growing Indian market.
This major strategic alliance chemicals industries, and I am convinced that we in the energy industry will combine BPs deepwater capabilities with Reliances project have much to learn from them and others.
We must take what we learn management and operations expertise.
and embed it deep in the fabric of our organization.
BP is also partnering with another organization, Husky Energy, to Part of BPs task right now is to show we can be trusted to handle develop a further important resource of energy Canadas oil sands.
These the industrys most demanding jobs, including exploration and production in represent the second largest reserves in the world after the oilfields of deep water.
Around 7% of the worlds oil supplies come from this source, Saudi Arabia.
We will work with this resource in a way that fits with our and we expect this will rise to nearly 10% by 2020.
We are one of only a long-term responsibilities and objectives, using steam assisted gravity handful of companies with the financial and technological strengths needed drainage to extract the oil, and an efficient, integrated system to transport to operate in these geographies.
Before April 2010, BP had drilled safely in it.
Our approach will have a relatively small footprint and should not be the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico for 20 years.
The governments of confused with opencast mining we will not engage in mining.
On a Egypt, China, Indonesia, Azerbaijan and the UK have shown confidence in well-to-wheel basis, greenhouse gas emissions from Canadian oil produced our ability to operate safely at depths, having signed new deepwater drilling this way are expected to be slightly higher than those from conventional agreements with us in the second half of 2010. crudes imported to North America.
It is important to remember why companies such as BP have to Along with providing the hydrocarbons required over coming years, take on the risks they do.
Around 40 years ago, international oil companies we are helping to build the sustainable options needed to meet growing had access to the majority of the worlds oil reserves.
Today these demand for lower-carbon energy.
Our natural gas operations will help to companies can access a much smaller share.
This still provides substantial provide a lower-carbon bridge from oil and coal to renewables.
We are opportunities for value creation, but reaching many of those reserves building a material business to produce biofuels in Brazil, the US and the requires us to overcome severe physical, technical, intellectual and UK.
We are becoming a leading player in wind energy.
Global energy demand continues to rise, so the established solar business.
And we have made substantial investments in world needs BP and others to meet these challenges in an environmentally  technology.
Lower-carbon resources are the sustainable way.
In doing this, we can never eliminate every hazard, but fastest-growing sector in the energy market, and BP intends to develop its we can become an industry leader in understanding and limiting risk.
portfolio in step with this growth.
As to the immediate future, I expect 2011 to be a year of Clearly, one of the consequences of the events of 2010 was a consolidation for BP, as we focus on completing our previously announced substantial loss of value and returns for our shareholders.
I am pleased divestment programme, meeting our commitments in the US and bringing that we have been able to resume dividend payments, and our intention renewed rigour to the way we manage risk.
There will also be an increasing is to grow the dividend level in line with the companys improving emphasis on value over volume, as we sharpen our strategy and reshape circumstances.
We are now taking action to create and realize greater the company for growth.
We are increasing our investment in exploration, which is one of our Looking back over recent days and months, our thoughts return to distinctive strengths.
the men who lost their lives, to those who were injured and to the We are gaining access to a wide range of new upstream resource communities hit hard by the spill.
I have heard people ask Does BP get opportunities, and already have 32 project start-ups planned between now it?
Residents of the Gulf, our employees and investors, governments, and 2016.
We are taking an even more active approach to buying, industry partners and people around the world all want to know whether developing and selling upstream assets, with a focus on maximizing returns we understand that a return to business-as-usual is not an option.
We may rather than building volume.
And we are divesting roughly half of our US not have communicated it enough at times, but yes, we get it.
Our refining capacity, so we can focus downstream investments on refining fundamental purpose is to create value for shareholders, but we also see positions and marketing businesses where we have competitive ourselves as part of society, not apart from it.
Put simply, our role is to find advantage.
This builds on the success BPs Refining and Marketing and turn energy resources into financial returns, but by doing that in the business has achieved in driving itself back to significantly improved right way we can help create a prosperous and sustainable future for performance and returns over the past few years.
This is what people rightfully expect of BP.
This is what will In short, BP is moving swiftly to address its weaknesses and build inspire and drive us over the next 12 months and far into the future.
While doing this we will not hesitate to go beyond the conventional business model of an international oil company.
Since 2003 we have had a strong alliance onshore in Russia with TNK-BP.
In January 2011 we announced our Arctic alliance with Rosneft, which further shows a our strategy in action.
Pending completion, this is expected to be the first Bob Dudley major equity-linked partnership between a national and international oil Group Chief Executive company, with an agreement with Rosneft to receive 5% of BPs ordinary 2 March 2011 voting shares in exchange for approximately 9.5% of Rosnefts shares.
Under the agreement, Rosneft and BP will seek to form a joint venture to explore and, if successful, develop three licence blocks in the South Kara More on our performance Sea an area roughly equivalent in size and prospectivity to the UK North bp.
BP and Rosneft have also agreed to establish an Arctic technology centre in Russia, which will work with research institutes, design bureaus and universities to develop technologies and engineering practices for the safe extraction of hydrocarbon resources from the Arctic shelf.
a On 1 February 2011 the English High Court granted an interim injunction restraining BP from taking any further steps in relation to the Rosneft transactions pending the outcome of arbitration proceedings.
See Note 6 Events after the reporting period.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 11
