BACK TO CONTENTS Chief Executives Statement We are pleased to present our final results for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Turning the clock back twelve months we piece in our jigsaw puzzle ensuring that all We also have the advantage of significantly entered this year under review with more our earnings are on a similar basis.
higher assets under administration on which trepidation than for many years.
The Elsewhere we have restructured our we earn most of our income, although as a government were doing the only thing they Financial Practitioners division which significant portion of our earnings are based knew: trying to spend us out of our means we are probably ahead of the game in on the value of our clients investments at problems.
Interest rates were historically preparation for the Retail Distribution the end of each month our results going low and the recession was a constant worry.
Review which seems to be paralysing most of forward will be affected by market The stock market was 33% lower FTSE Allthe rest of the financial services industry.
Share than it had been at the turn of the Most encouraging of all is the number of new millennium, and doom and gloom clients who find their way to our door, or My new role abounded.
rather more precisely to our website.
The increase in the UKs savings ratio is a cause I shall be stepping down as Chief Executive The only glimmer of light at the end of a very for optimism.
Whilst this ratio has been on 2 September 2010 and I am delighted to long tunnel was that low interest rates were mainly affected by people paying down debt, hand on that role to the very safe pair of driving investors to examine other forms of eventually some of those increased savings hands of Ian Gorham.
It is also gratifying to income producing assets.
We were also are likely to end up with us.
know that right throughout the firm every seeing increasing interest in our services and senior position is covered by at least one for that we would thank our existing clients A year ago I warned that the year ending very able understudy.
who willingly extolled the virtues of our June 2010 would see a substantial reduction service supplementing the efforts of my of income as a result of the low interest rate I have enjoyed being Chief Executive of excellent marketing team.
That situation has not Hargreaves Lansdown over the years.
The changed but in the forthcoming year we will business is my lifes work and the only thing There have been two significant highlights be comparing those earnings with a similar I can do now is to assure both clients and during the year.
The first has been the low potential year of earnings due to the investors that I have not handed on this unprecedented amount of new business.
In likely continuation of low interest rates.
Ian Gorham is I believe the almost every part of the firm we have seen right man for this job.
Indeed the business substantial increases in volumes.
Indeed I could not review this year without has changed so much that it now needs during the year we did top one million mentioning our new office.
I must applaud different skills, ones that Ian possesses in stockbroking deals.
our IT team and all the other members of abundance.
I must thank everyone in the staff who worked to make the office move so firm who has worked with me over the years The other area which was encouraging was painless.
We are very proud of our new and helped me make Hargreaves Lansdown the buoyancy of stock markets, which saw office.
It is wonderful that once more I have the successful and prosperous business it is the FTSE All-Share index rise to a high of the opportunity to see all the staff every day today.
2989.13 in April 2010 from just 2172.08 on and being under one roof we have already 1 July 2009 the beginning of our accounting generated new ideas as well as savings and I shall remain as a Director of Hargreaves period.
The level of the market is critical for believe there are many more that we shall Lansdown, although I will be reducing my our earnings.
workload to 3 to 4 days a week.
My passion has always been in ensuring client literature Outlook and strategy Summary and marketing initiatives are the best they could possibly be: therefore my focus will be It is always difficult to forecast the coming I suspect the problems that we can foresee at on providing challenge to ensure we keep year when the time I write this statement is the moment are less critical than the ones we the highest possible standards in these during the summer months which envisaged a year ago.
At that time we faced a important areas.
This year is significant loss of income through lower no exception.
There are however many interest rates, and the office move was in things that encourage us for the coming year.
Today we are completely settled First of all our new Corporate Vantage in our new home and we have found Peter Hargreaves proposition is being very well received in its recruitment not only easier than ever before Executive Director marketplace.
This enables us to put another but the quality of our recruits is excellent.
8 September 2010 7 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010
