Group Chief Executives In a period of sustained low interest rates, Business Review revenues remained constrained, reflecting four principal factors: reducing loan balances in our US business: lower trading income in Global Banking and Markets resulting from lower client activity: adverse fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges: and a reduced contribution from Balance Sheet Management in line with earlier guidance.
Strong asset growth in Commercial Banking, particularly in Asia, higher trade-related revenues generally, and expansion of our wealth management business, again most notably in Asia, partially offset these revenue pressures.
Loan impairment charges reduced by almost half to US$14.0bn.
All regions and customer groups improved.
The US experienced the greatest improvement, largely in the cards and consumer finance portfolios.
Loan impairment charges also declined significantly in Latin Underlying financial performance continued to America and the Middle East.
improve in 2010 and shareholders continued to In Global Banking and Markets, loan benefit from HSBCs universal banking model.
All impairment charges fell significantly, notably in regions and customer groups were profitable, as Europe as economic conditions improved.
Personal Financial Services and North America Credit risk provisions reduced by US$1bn to returned to profit.
Commercial Banking made an US$0.4bn in the available-for-sale  contribution to underlying earnings and securities portfolios due to a slowing in the rate Global Banking and Markets also remained strongly of anticipated losses on underlying assets, in profitable, albeit behind 2009s record performance, line with previous guidance.
The associated reflecting a well-balanced and diversified business.
available for sale reserve declined to US$6.4bn Credit experience continued to improve, as a from US$12.2bn.
result of a stronger global economy and our actions The cost efficiency ratio rose to 55.2%, which is to reduce balance sheet risk.
As a globally-connected above our target range and unacceptable to me.
bank with a growing presence across the worlds The causes were constrained revenues and, in faster-growing regions, HSBC also benefitted from part, investment in strategic growth initiatives higher trade volumes and strong momentum in across the business together with higher staff emerging economies, especially in Asia.
It additionally reflected one-off payroll contributed the largest proportion to underlying taxes of US$0.3bn paid in 2010 in respect of the pre-tax profits, while the contributions made by previous year and a pension accounting credit Latin America and the Middle East also increased.
Together with our conservative management of the However, it is also clear that we need to rebalance sheet, this improved performance allowed us engineer the business to remove inefficiencies.
to concentrate on serving our customers and to further strengthen our capital position.
Return on average total shareholders equity rose from 5.1% to 9.5%, reflecting increased Group performance headlines profit generation during the year.
1 Profit before tax improved year on year.
On a HSBC continued to grow its capital base and reported basis, profits increased by nearly strengthen its capital ratios further.
The core US$12bn from US$7.1bn to US$19bn.
On an tier 1 ratio increased from 9.4% to 10.5%, as underlying basis, profits increased by 36%, or a result of capital generation and lower risk almost US$5bn, from US$13.5bn to US$18.4bn.
1 All references to profits are profits before tax unless otherwise stated.
7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chief Executives Business Review Total loans and advances to customers increased evolving regulatory framework will, all other things by 7% to US$958bn while deposits increased by being equal, depress returns for shareholders of 6% to US$1.2 trillion.
We will therefore target a return on average shareholders equity of 12-15% in the future.
Impact of the evolving regulatory As Group Chief Executive, it is right that, in environment on the business managing the business and developing Group Much of the detail around the potential impact strategy, my principal office should be in Hong of change for banks remains uncertain.
However, Kong a global financial hub of growing importance analysis of what we know confirms that our ability at the centre of HSBCs strategically most important to generate capital and manage our risk-weighted region.
However, the company is headquartered in assets positions HSBC strongly and competitively London and we hope to remain there.
Londons prewithin the industry as the pace of change eminence as an international financial services centre intensifies.
is widely recognised and well-deserved and reflects successful government policy over decades to build HSBC fully supports the rationale of the that position.
It is therefore important to us that the Basel III proposals which require banks to hold more UKs competitive position is protected and capital.
This is absolutely core to ensuring that sustained.
Appropriate supervision is an important governments and taxpayers are better protected in part of the larger equation.
Policymakers should future than they have been in the past.
continue to legislate and regulate, but they must not Certain aspects of the Basel III rules remain destroy Londons competitive position in the uncertain as to interpretation and application by process.
Notably, this includes any capital As the Group Chairman has outlined, new requirements which may be imposed on the Group legislation is expected to be enacted in the UK, over the implementation period in respect of the effective from the start of 2011, one curious countercyclical capital buffer and any additional consequence of which is an explicit incremental cost regulatory requirements for SIFIs.
However, we of being headquartered in the UK for any global believe that ultimately the level for the common bank.
Had this been applied for 2010, this annual equity tier 1 ratio of the Group may lie in the range charge would have amounted to approximately 9.5 to 10.5%.
This exceeds the minimum US$0.6bn in HSBCs case.
Moreover, the overseas requirement for common equity tier 1 capital plus balance sheet would account for the majority of the the capital conservation buffer.
annual charge, with the UK balance sheet accounting for approximately one third of the total.
We have estimated the pro forma common equity tier 1 ratio of the Group based on our interpretation of the new Basel III rules as they will Outlook apply from 1 January 2019, based on the position of We have been closely watching events unfold in the Group at year-end 2010.
The rules will be phased parts of the Middle East and North Africa.
Our in from 2013 with a gradual impact and we have primary concern is for the security of our 12,000 estimated that their full application, on a proforma staff across the region and we continue to work to basis, would result in a common equity tier 1 ratio ensure their safety.
We have also activated robust which is lower than the Basel II core tier 1 ratio by continuity plans so that we can also stay open for some 250300 basis points.
The changes relate business and support the needs of our customers.
As to increased capital deductions, new regulatory a strongly capitalised global bank, HSBCs financial adjustments and increases in risk-weighted assets.
performance has not been materially affected by However, as the changes will progressively take events to date.
HSBC has been present in the Middle effect over six years leading up to 2019 and as East for more than 50 years and we remain HSBC has a strong track record of capital generation absolutely committed to its future.
We also believe and actively manages its risk-weighted assets, we that the regions economies have a number of are confident in our ability to mitigate the effect of structural strengths which leave us positive on the the new rules before they come into force.
Last year, HSBC committed to reviewing its In the short-term, risks to global growth remain, target shareholder return on equity once the effects not least from an elevated oil price.
We therefore of new regulation became clearer.
Now that we have expect cyclical volatility to continue including in better visibility on the impact of increased capital emerging markets and progress is unlikely to be requirements, we believe that higher costs of the linear.
In the longer-term, we believe that growth 8 rates in many Western markets will continue to remaining compressed, we fully recognise the significantly underperform those of the emerging importance of ever more robust cost management world.
Emerging markets are no longer simply discipline and the need to continue re-engineering leading the recovery from a Western crisis: the the business to improve efficiency.
growth gap has become a sustained secular trend.
Furthermore, capital is becoming a scarcer The global economys structural position also resource and, as a new regulatory environment still requires fundamental readjustment.
Many evolves, I am committed to making capital allocation Western economies must still deal with a large a more disciplined and rigorous process at HSBC in overhang of household and government debt and order to drive the correct investment decisions for weak growth and high unemployment will make this the future.
As faster-growing We will talk more to investors about each of nations seek to limit the effect of Western monetary these initiatives later in the spring.
However, as a policy on their own economies, we cannot discount result of this focus, we are committed to delivering a the risk of increased tension over exchange rate and cost efficiency ratio and a return on average trade issues.
shareholders equity within our published target HSBCs balance sheet remains strongly range.
positioned to benefit from future interest rate rises.
We also recognise the importance of reliable We are realistic that, in many developed countries at dividend income for our shareholders and I believe it least, historically low rates may continue to constrain should be possible to benchmark a payout ratio of income growth in the near-term.
Nevertheless, between 40-60% of attributable profits under normal maintaining a conservative liquidity position is core market conditions.
to our proposition and to our funding strength.
In our risk appetite statement approved by the Board we In closing, I would like to acknowledge the huge have set a maximum advances-to-deposits ratio for contribution that my predecessor, Mike Geoghegan, the Group of 90%.
This underlines our continuing made to HSBC in his five years as Group Chief commitment to a high level of liquidity and reflects Executive not least during 2010 and I wish him our philosophy that HSBC should not be reliant on well for the future.
Even with a ratio Finally, I am pleased to report that we have had currently slightly below 80%, we have capacity for a good start to the year, with continued momentum further lending growth.
in lending, mainly in emerging markets and in In the short-term, we expect the benefits of asset respect of global trade.
growth achieved in 2010 to continue to flow into revenues.
In the medium-term, we will continue to target growth in the most strategically attractive markets for HSBC and build our capabilities in connectivity, one of our distinctive strengths as a globally-connected bank.
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive At the same time, with demand in many 28 February 2011 developed markets constrained and interest spreads 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
