4 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review In 2010 we grew market share, grew our leading international brands and achieved significant productivity savings that were well ahead of our targets.
Paul Adams Chief Executive A strong business in a tough marketplace Productivity enabling growth We continue to make progress on our The strength of our companies worldwide Our structural cost base has seen big changes sustainability agenda not just our impact and the success of our tried and tested over the past couple of years and this will on the environment and our people, but Group strategy have enabled us to achieve continue.
This is not just belt tightening, also the way we conduct our operations in very good growth through a volatile weare reconfiguring our structural costs the marketplace and throughout our supply year, marked by economic uncertainty.
asa result of refining our manufacturing chain.
Our focus on the consumer means Some emerging markets are now showing footprint and developing new global that we have continued to invest in our strong economic growth and even developed systems that reduce local duplication of brands and the development of product markets are returning to growth, yet effort and resources.
innovations to drive growth, while we also unemployment remains stubbornly high invest in the longer term to ensure the Productivity savings in the supply chain, inmany parts of the world and disposable business is fit to meet future challenges.
general overheads and indirect costs incomes are still under pressure.
Thisincludes having the research and amounted to 327 million in 2010 and development capability to support our So its still a tough marketplace but our helped us achieve an overall operating investigation into innovative products results show the true quality of our business.
margin increase from 31.4 to 33.5 per cent.
and our efforts to develop potentially Our geographic diversity and strong positions This means we have achieved our 800 reduced-harm prototypes.
in markets that have been least affected by million per year productivity savings target the global recession continue to play a part for 2012 two years ahead of schedule.
I can Handing over in our success.
However, the real story is see our ability to reduce costs continuing, This report marks the end of an extremely thestrength of our brands, the innovative especially as we exploit new global systems enjoyable, often challenging and always products we bring to market and the and processes.
So weve made good progress interesting seven year period for me as Chief quality of our people.
on costs and theres more to come.
My successor, Nicandro Durante, has much to look forward to.
I know he will In 2010 we grew market share, we grew Delivering sustainable growth quickly make the role his own and his drive ourleading international brands in our Our sustainability performance is also for success will help to ensure the continued mostimportant markets and we achieved veryimportant to us.
Its all about creating growth of this excellent business.
significant productivity savings that were shared value how we can create economic well ahead of our established targets.
value in a way that also creates value for I retire from the Company satisfied with Our organic revenue in constant currency ourstakeholders.
The work we have done the progress we have made and confident also rose 3 per cent, despite a decline in inthisarea, not just in 2010 but over the about its future.
Im clearly going to miss it.
organic volume of 3 per cent.
lastdecade, has been recognised through Im tremendously proud of what weve external benchmarking such as the UKs achieved and I can only thank my colleagues Our brands are strong and growing in Business in the Community Corporate in the company all 60,000 of them for market share Responsibility Index and the Dow Jones what weve achieved together.
I wish them, Our brands are performing well and I Sustainability Indexes.
Nicandro and the whole business well for believe that this shows the true vitality of the future.
Collectively, our Global Drive We have also received very good feedback Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike on our Sustainability Reports and, in some Paul Adams and Pall Mall grew by 7 per cent, reflecting cases, we have surprised independent Chief Executive the successful launch of product innovations assessors, including some who are critical in key markets and brand migrations.
ofour business, with the openness and transparency of our reporting and the way Whats pleasing is that we are growing we integrate sustainability with our business market share where it matters most.
Our overall share in our Top 40 markets grew by30 basis points to 25.3 per cent a really encouraging result.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 5 Business review As markets start to come out of the recession, we are now armed with a stronger portfolio and are ready to take advantage of further growth opportunities.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive from 1 March 2011 A strategy for growth Our strategy I am delighted to take on my role at a time when the opportunities for growth continue Our strategy is designed to deliver our vision to be strong.
Theres no doubt that we have and, as a result, build shareholder value.
our work cut out to match or exceed the Itisbased ongrowth, funded by productivity success of the past few years but I know that and delivered by a winning organisation we have the right business model, the right thatacts responsibly at all times.
products and the right people, with the strongest innovations anyone in our industry has at their disposal.
Our vision Our strategy certainly wont change, although we may talk about it in a slightly different way.
Our business model and balanced strategy add value to all aspects Growth ofour business and we believe this sets usapart from our competitors.
We still thinkthat delivering growth is the key Winning toachieving our vision to lead the global Productivity Responsibility organisation tobacco industry.
This means placing an even greater focus on growth and ensuring that it drives everything we do.
Our growth is funded by productivity and delivered by awinning organisation that acts responsibly at all times.
Our vision To achieve leadership of the global tobacco industry.
Strengthening our business In 2010 we strengthened our brands, Our strategy for growth aims to increase our market share, with a focus on Growth westrengthened our innovations and we our Global Drive Brands.
We also made good progress on our sustainability agenda and Our commitment to productivity provides the resource we need to invest in Productivity very good progress on reducing costs.
our brands and grow share in our key markets, helping us to increase profit.
We grew share in our Top 40 markets and Winning Being a winning organisation ensures that we attract, develop and retain the Ibelieve that as markets start to come out organisation people we need to deliver growth.
ofthe recession, we are now armed with astronger portfolio than we had before Our companies and people act responsibly at all times and we seek to reduce andare ready to take advantage of further Responsibility the harm caused by our products.
The key indicators aremoving in the right direction, demonstrating the strength of our business.
You can read more about our strategy at: www.
com strategy 6 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review continued Gross turnover Revenue Including duty, excise and other taxes 43,855 14,883 million million Our GDBs have grown 7percent overall in Looking at market size in isolation, weve Illicit trade adeclining total market and our share of the done extrapolations that cover the next The illicit trade in tobacco products is a Adult Smokers Under 30 ASU30 segment 20years and thats where demographics growing threat to legitimate companies.
also increased in our Top 40 markets.
Trends indicate that Wesupport the development of the individual smokers will consume fewer WorldHealth Organisations Framework This success has been driven by innovations cigarettes each and smaller percentages Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC we have introduced across the world such ofpopulations will smoke.
protocol aimed at creating an international as Lucky Strike Click & Roll in the Americas regulatory framework for addressing illicit and Western Europe, and Dunhill Reloc and However, with the worlds population trade.
However, other measures from the Kent Convertibles in Asia-Pacific.
predicted to increase to seven billion by FCTC may drive significant excise increases, theend of 2012 and nine billion by the During 2010 we saw our business improve in retail display bans and plain packaging, endof 2050, we expect there will be a very markets that are fundamental to our growth allofwhich could play into the hands of sustainable and profitable tobacco industry strategy such as Russia, South Korea, organised crime by creating ideal conditions delivering value for a long time to come.
Canada, Mexico, Japan, Nigeria, the Gulf for further increases in illicit trade.
Cooperation Council countries, France and The World Health Organisation has forecast A vision for success Italy.
We also announced our intention to that there are likely to be more smokers in Looking to 2011 and the years ahead, our move from five to four regions to reduce the year 2050 than there are today, despite ambitious vision of achieving leadership complexity in our management structures, the impact of regulation.
That is certainly a of our industry remains as relevant as ever.
achieve a better balance in the scale of our plausible scenario given the demographics.
Westill have much to do to deliver our regions and to make us more agile in our Managing risks vision but our strategy for growth and our decision-making.
We have identified a core list of areas that increasing competitiveness mean we are Global outlook we believe could represent a significant well placed to succeed.
Paul has explained why we are confident we riskto our business.
As can be seen from We will continue to refresh and enhance have a sustainable business, but where will ourreview of the Key Group risk factors ourbrand portfolio, introducing consumerthe industry be in 10, 20 or even 40 years inthis report, we regularly monitor their focused innovations where appropriate.
Well, one thing we have always said potential impact and controls are in place Ouroperational fitness will also continue isthat its not a good time to predict the toensure that, where possible, they are toimprove, as we implement and roll-out long-term future when youre in a recession.
I look forward to the Even so, few would disagree that the Competitive landscape challenges ahead and I know our people industry looks very robust for the We are looking to grow our business and around the world do too.
Forecasts suggest that we believe we can meet our financial the world market is likely to remain fairly Nicandro Durante objectives through organic growth alone.
stable at between five and six trillion Chief Executive from 1 March 2011 However, wecontinue to monitor acquisition cigarettes, more than 40 per cent of opportunities around the world and will whichare sold in China.
participate where it makes financial and Even where we see volumes decline, we strategic sense to do so.
expect overall market values to grow due to changes in the product mix.
Our consumerled innovations will continue to help us build our premium products and the strength of our brands.
