ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 18 Group Chief Executive Officers review As a result of investments made over a long period our overall business is in good shape.
By following a clear growth and diversification strategy for several years ICAP is well positioned to take advantage of any changes in the structure and regulation of the financial services industry.
We are concentrating this year on growing our business organically and working with our customers to expand the use of the market infrastructure our investment has developed.
We have made a good start to the new financial year, with volatile conditions creating more active markets.
Michael Spencer ICAP Group Chief Executive Officer ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Our goals are to be the leading global intermediary, Key achievements 2009 10 19 the leading post trade risk services provider and the R established our domestic Brazilian business: main infrastructure provider to the worlds wholesale financial markets.
We aim to have at least 35% of R strong performance from post trade risk: overall interdealer market revenues and to generate R completed the acquisition of 100% of TriOptima: and operating profit evenly distributed between voice R extended the product coverage on our electronic broking, electronic broking and post trade risk and broking platforms to include broking credit information.
There are three components to our strategy: R the expansion of our leading voice broking business: Strategic priorities for 2010 11 R the growth of our global electronic broking business both R continue investing in our target markets: through increasing volumes of existing products and by R increase returns in voice broking: developing new markets: and R further expansion of post trade risk: R the development of our post trade risk and information businesses to provide innovative services that enable our R extend the new product coverage on our electronic customers to reduce their costs and risks and to increase their broking platforms: and efficiency, return on capital and capacity to process trades.
R generate superior EPS growth for our investors.
ICAPs businesses are based fundamentally on networks that we develop and operate globally for the wholesale financial markets.
We have successfully developed a business providing value added services to customers and then charging them when they complete growth.
ICAPs intellectual property business, Ocean Tomo, will help their transactions using these networks.
Building physical, global us build a leading position in the global and intellectual property networks is technically challenging, time consuming and requires broking market.
However, once a network is established there are significant economies of scale.
In the broking Almost half of ICAPs operating profit is now derived from businesses, as the number of buyers and sellers on a network electronic broking and post trade risk and information.
increases, liquidity increases as prices tighten making the network Electronic volumes returned to more normal levels during 2009 10 more attractive to new users.
In turn the network becomes more but in the last quarter, driven primarily by greater customer risk valuable as transaction volumes increase and new customers and tolerance, average daily volumes on our electronic broking products are added.
networks, BrokerTec and EBS, increased by 24% compared with the previous year.
Total average daily volumes in fixed income products Delivering on our strategy on the BrokerTec platform US Treasury products, US repo and EU We have consolidated our position as a leading global intermediary repo were $539 billion, an increase of 33% on the same period in in the wholesale financial markets by a clear margin.
Average daily volumes in spot FX on the EBS platform were a good track record of building and growing our business over many $154 billion single count during the last quarter of 2009 10. years and we continue to believe that we can expand our businesses in emerging markets, credit, equity derivatives and commodities, ICAPs post trade risk and information businesses continue to including shipping markets.
They present considerable structural and perform strongly.
The information business saw a healthy market share growth potential over the next three to five years.
improvement in profit in 2009 10 driven by a continuing increase in demand for independent trading data to meet the enhanced risk In the core voice broking businesses the interest rate derivatives management needs of our customers.
markets have been active on both sides of the Atlantic albeit at lower levels than the exceptionally busy markets during the previous Traianas Harmony network FX processing service handled an year.
The commodities markets have, in most instances, maintained average of 354,000 tickets per day in the last quarter of the steady growth that we have seen for a number of years.
In the 2009 10, compared to 187,000 tickets per day in the credit markets, cash continued to be more active than derivatives.
Traiana and State Street Most of the emerging markets in the Americas, Asia Pacific and Bank have announced recently an agreement to combine State Europe had an active end to the financial year.
Streets Global Trading Support Services GTSS with Traianas Harmony post trade services to create the comprehensive Our investment in new voice broking businesses provided mixed end-to-end post trade pre-settlement solution.
The partnership performances this year.
The expansion into full service agency increases Traianas Harmony network with the addition of over 200 cash equities in Europe and Asia Pacific failed to deliver the necessary asset managers, hedge funds and other institutional clients as well returns.
After a thorough review conducted in early 2010 we as custodian banks.
We continue to invest most of the profit from announced in March our decision to withdraw this full service offering.
this business into the development of additional applications for the This was a very disappointing outcome and an important lesson.
Although our shipping business continues to make small losses ReMatch, the bulk risk mitigation service for credit derivative we believe it is well positioned for the upturn in the shipping cycle.
portfolios, has made a good start.
The basis risk management Our Brazilian businesses are continuing to increase revenue and business, Reset saw slower markets due to the stability in shortmarket share and we expect them overall to reach break-even term interest rates but the business and its prospects are sound.
within the next financial year.
We believe our equity derivatives businesses maintained market share in more difficult markets and our London Metal Exchange business continued to show steady From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 20 Group Chief Executive Officers review continued The acquisition of the remaining 61.78% of equity in TriOptima that Business drivers ICAP did not already own, was completed at the end of the financial year.
TriOptima operates a portfolio reconciliation service that ICAP continues to have the potential for further growth currently handles 5.8 million trades representing over 75% of all and we have invested ahead of our competitors.
Factors non-cleared OTC derivative transactions globally.
triReduce, the that support this growth include: portfolio compression service, serves over 150 bank and non-bank subscribers worldwide and, in 2009, eliminated $40.3 trillion of R instability in currencies, interest rate and credit outstanding derivatives contracts.
markets leading to price volatility and forming the basis for further growth in interest rate and credit Opportunities in changing markets derivatives, FX, commodities and listed financial The very public political debate about strengthening financial markets: regulation and the market infrastructure, particularly of OTC derivatives, is moving towards a conclusion in the major centres.
R demand for improved operational and capital Legislators, regulators and market participants all have their own efficiency for bank and hedge fund traders in demands.
these markets: Once legislation is in place, some of which may be this year, we R use of derivatives to manage efficiently and hedge expect new industry regulation and capital treatments to emerge.
risk exposure to changes in interest rates and FX, This includes proposals for international adoption of the new commodity and other price fluctuations: Basel III proposals for banks capital and liquidity requirements.
R continuing high levels of government and corporate However, while the debate continues, 14 of the largest banks have bond issuance as structural change reduces bank made a number of commitments to global regulators that have and will continue to improve the market infrastructure even before lending to corporates: legislation designed to reform OTC market structures has been R reallocation of capital to commoditised flow finalised.
These include increasing transparency through the use markets and the structural shift away from complex of global data repositories to address the needs of regulators for structured products: information about counterparty exposures and aggregated post trade data.
TriOptima has been tasked with the development of the R continuing regulatory pressure on financial market global trade repository for OTC interest rate derivatives and began participants to overhaul OTC market infrastructure, publishing the first aggregated market data on 30 April 2010. reducing systemic and operational risk by improving back office procedures and reducing systemic and We also expect that the requirements for electronic trading systems in the OTC derivative markets will become clearer.
counterparty risk: We successfully launched electronic trading of credit derivatives R clearing of OTC derivatives trades to reduce risk, in the US in 2010 and expect to launch electronic trading improve market efficiency and reduce costs: of interest rate derivatives by the end of 2010.
Now that there is broad agreement on the benefits of introducing counterparty R increased political pressure for new regulations CCP clearing for standardised eligible transactions, regulators requiring more electronic trading, improved and risk and operations professionals have started to consider transparency and higher capital requirements for risks that cannot be removed or mitigated by CCP models, such OTC trades that are not cleared: and as further order risks and complex and structured trades.
In 2011 we anticipate the increased use of both more efficient bilateral R continued liberalisation of emerging markets.
collateralisation and CCPs and that these risk mitigation techniques Economic growth and increasing sophistication are will be applied to larger segments of the OTC markets.
driving growth in onshore and offshore interest rate, FX and credit markets in these countries.
We expect to expand our range of post trade processing and risk management services in this evolving regulatory environment.
This is an attractive area in which to invest: we know the market well and are working alongside our key customers.
The new services we are introducing employ intellectual rather than financial capital and our competition is fragmented.
Regulation Another aspect is that a regulatory and reputational spotlight is being aimed at all financial services companies.
During the past year the Group announced that it had reached a settlement with the SEC in respect of a multi-year, industry-wide investigation into the markets in certain fixed income securities, without admitting or denying allegations of any wrongdoing.
The investigation concerned certain activities on ICAP Securities USA LLCs ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 interdealer voice broking mortgage backed securities desk Dividend between 2005 and 2008.
Since then ICAP Securities USA Our business continues to be highly cash generative and, although 21 LLC has made substantial enhancements to the quality of its we have had one-off issues this year, our free cash flow was control environment.
219 million and we have a stable net debt position.
As a result the business is well placed to continue to grow and develop.
On this The scale of the Group means our profile is high and we must occasion the directors have based their dividend recommendation demonstrate leadership in setting and achieving the highest on the continuing adjusted EPS of 35.1p so that the total dividend ethical and professional standards by our staff, management and for the year will be 17.55p compared with 17.05p per share in directors.
We are committed to strengthening our strong control 2008 09: subject to shareholder approval a final dividend of environment, both geographically and across product lines, and 12.44p per share will be paid on 20 August 2010 to shareholders have continued to make substantial progress in the past year.
Competitive environment Under the terms of the scrip dividend scheme that was introduced We continue to benefit from greater scale and broader diversity in 2009, shareholders will be offered the opportunity to elect to than our competitors.
When assessing our available market size receive their cash dividend in shares.
Further details will be we include interdealer broking markets in interest rates, credit, announced on 28 July 2010. commodities including shipping, FX, equity derivatives and emerging markets together with markets such as post trade Looking ahead risk.
Markets such as global cash equities and financial futures ICAP continues to benefit significantly from the investments made remain separate from this broader definition, although ICAP does in previous years.
We have learned some valuable lessons this past act as an executing broker in listed futures markets.
By our year but are very focused on building and developing the business, estimates, overall industry revenue declined in 2009 10 by 12% to employing an even more disciplined approach to our new initiatives, $11 billion.
On this basis ICAP currently estimates its share of this a sound control environment and robust risk management.
Our strategy remains to increase Our overall business is in good shape and is more broadly based than this share to 35%.
By following a clear growth and diversification In voice broking markets, competitive strength is a function of strategy our business is well positioned to take advantage of any longstanding customer relationships, coherent asset class changes in the structure and regulation of the financial services coverage, excellent communications and, increasingly, the speed industry.
We will concentrate this year on growing our business and efficiency of  that is normally organically and will work with our customers to expand the use of provided or facilitated by ICAP as a free ancillary service in the market infrastructure our investment has developed.
We have conjunction with voice broking.
made a good start to the new financial year, with volatile conditions creating more active markets.
In electronic broking markets, our key competitive advantages are: depth of available liquidity, breadth of our electronic network and established customer connectivity.
Our networks are also highly scalable, offering scope for functional enhancement and delivery of new innovative products.
Our competitors in post trade risk are widely dispersed and there are no other businesses with the combination of scale, technology or network connectivity covering the segments in which we operate.
The Groups post trade risk operations have significant growth capacity and can be leveraged across different asset classes to reduce further risk and improve operational efficiency in the wholesale financial markets.
Our people ICAP has a strong and successful culture which has a big impact on our ability to recruit and retain the highest quality staff.
We have successfully expanded the business and once again we have seen a substantial growth in the number of ICAP staff.
In fact during the past 10 years we have more than doubled our headcount to more than 4,500 while at the same time tripling our revenue.
I would like to thank each of them for their contribution to ICAPs continuing development during the past year.
The combined efforts of our staff, our executive management team and my fellow directors have been truly inspiring.
Charity Day ICAPs Charity Day is a long established part of our culture.
Over the past 17 years we have donated more than $119 million to charities proposed by our staff in each of our offices around the world.
So far over 800 charities have benefited: they range from training centres for vulnerable children in Ghana to the search for an effective treatment for Alzheimers disease sufferers in London.
In December 2009 we successfully raised $18.7 million 11.5 million in one day.
It was only made possible by the amazing efforts of our customers, staff, suppliers and supporters who made Charity Day 2009 such a fantastic success.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 22 Global Executive Management Group GEMG The GEMG consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management.
Michael Spencer Matthew Lester Group Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Aged 54 Aged 46 Michael was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 As Group Finance Director, Matthew is and became Chairman and Chief Executive chairman of the finance committee and is of Intercapital in October 1998, following responsible for a number of global support the Exco Intercapital merger.
He is deemed, functions including finance, treasury, tax and with IPGL and its subsidiary INFBV, to have company secretariat.
Previously he worked for an interest of 17.39% in ICAP plc.
IPGLs Diageo plc in a number of senior finance roles, other interests include City Index Limited and including Group Financial Controller.
Matthew, The GEMG is the main investments in a variety of other financial having qualified as a chartered accountant services companies.
Michael was non-executive in 1987 with Arthur Andersen, moved to strategic development forum Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from April Kleinwort Benson, corporate finance, in 1988.
In February 2007, He is a member of the main committee of for ICAP and meets six times he was appointed Treasurer of the The 100 Group of Finance Directors.
a year to review business Conservative Party.
New business initiatives are approved by the GEMG which then reviews them on a regular basis.
Mark Yallop John Nixon Group Chief Operating Officer Group Executive Director ICAP Americas Aged 50 Chief Executive Officer ICAP Electronic Broking As Group Chief Operating Officer, Mark is chairman of the group risk committee and is Aged 55 responsible for the post trade risk businesses.
John is the executive director responsible for He had previously been Group Chief Operating ICAP Americas and continues to be responsible Officer of Deutsche Bank Group, following for electronic broking.
He has 30 years many years involvement in trading in the experience in the interdealer broking industry.
derivatives, foreign exchange and cash Prior to his full-time involvement with ICAP, markets.
Mark was also a director of ISDA he was a non-executive director of ICAP plc from 1996 to 1998. from 1998 to 2002.
John was previously Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 23 David Casterton Gil Mandelzis Stephen McDermott Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer ICAP London and EMEA Traiana ICAP Americas Aged 51 Aged 42 Aged 53 David is responsible for all voice broking, Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000.
Prior Stephen was, until March 2008, an executive technology and support functions in London to Traiana, he worked in the M & A group director of ICAP plc.
In 2006 he oversaw and EMEA including ICAP Shipping.
Between at Deutsche Bank Alex Brown formerly BT the integration with EBS.
He was appointed 1997 and 2008, he was responsible for ICAPs Wolfensohn in New York, where Gil advised a director of the US operations in December interest rate business in London.
Before joining companies in the financial and technology 1995 having joined the foreign exchange ICAP in 1995 David was with MW Marshall and sectors.
Gil holds an MBA from INSEAD.
Stephen is also Guy Butler International.
a board member of Columbia Universitys Executive Masters of Science and Technology Management.
Douglas Rhoten Kim Rosenkilde David Rutter Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer ICAP Americas ICAP Asia Pacific ICAP Electronic Broking Aged 55 Aged 44 Aged 47 Doug has over 29 years experience in the Kim is responsible for all voice broking, David was appointed to his current role in broking industry.
He joined ICAP in 1977 technology and support functions in Asia 2006 and is responsible for the day-to-day and was appointed Chief Executive Officer Pacific.
Prior to joining ICAP, he held a number management of ICAPs Electronic Brokings for ICAP Americas in 2001 and is responsible of positions at ABN Amro, most recently as global business.
Prior to joining ICAP in 2003, for all voice broking technology and support Chief Executive Officer and country executive, David was a significant shareholder in Prebon.
functions in the US, the operations in Latin Japan and head of global markets, North His tenure at Prebon began in 1988 and he America, including Brazil, and ICAPs intellectual America.
Kim has 23 years experience in served in various capacities including Global property business.
He is a founding member fixed income and currency trading and risk Chief Executive Officer of Prebon Energy and of The Green Exchange and former member of management.
Managing Director of the Americas.
David has the US Federal Reserve Bank Foreign Exchange served on several corporate boards of entities Committee.
