DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW viewing experience is provided Chief Executive Officers statement by the success of high definition HD, which is now in 30% of our customers homes with penetration more than doubling for the second successive year.
During 2010, weve made HD more accessible to viewers by lowering the upfront cost of the Sky HD box, while further expanding the range of HD channels, including the launch of Europes first HD news channel, Sky News HD.
The growth of HD is an attractive area for us to invest, opening up a high-margin revenue stream continuous improvements to and differentiating our product For several years, Sky has been pursuing a clear the value, quality and range of from the competition.
In and consistent strategy with the goal of our offering.
There are a number October 2010, well move of strands to the way in which forward again with the launch of building a larger and more profitable business.
we are creating more reasons 3D television to residential This is designed to take advantage of two for new customers to consider customers via the existing Sky and adding more value for Sky HD box, following a fundamental trends in todays marketplace, existing customers.
successful launch in commercial which come together to create a significant premises last year.
Well also First, we never forget that the opportunity for our business.
We see that main reason why customers join Sky is for a better choice of TV customers are increasingly willing to pay for a viewing.
That is why we have 9.86m better television experience and they have a continued to invest in standTotal Sky TV customers out content, widening the gap growing appetite to take multiple products between what customers get from free-to-air TV and the from a single, trusted provider.
In both cases, enhanced choice they can enjoy 5,912m Sky is well positioned to benefit.
This year, we have Adjusted Group revenue extended our entertainment Aligning the business with those customer base by almost 1.3 offering on Sky1 with more trends, our strategy is focused million over the last three years, original drama such as Chris on two legs of growth.
First, we we have also sold a total of 8.9 Ryans Strike Back and more 31.1p continue to grow our overall million additional subscription family entertainment such as customer base and, second, we products over the same period.
Adjusted basic earnings per share Got to Dance with Davina are increasingly focused on As customers have rewarded us McCall.
Sky Arts has gone from selling more products to existing with more of their business, it continue to extend distribution strength to strength, reaching customers.
Our approach is has driven increased average of our Sky Player and Mobile TV almost two million viewers a based on the combination of revenue per customer and services, opening up new ways month with a highly distinctive disciplined investment in areas helped to maintain our strong for customers to access our schedule including the return of where customers see value and levels of loyalty and retention.
content through devices like the live theatre to UK television.
a strong focus on operational Sports has had another Despite continuing pressure on efficiency, with the aim of successful year, with Englands household budgets and an A third area of focus is the striking the right balance Ashes victory and more live opportunity created by our uncertain economic outlook, our between growth and returns.
UEFA Champions League, while rate of growth has remained entry into the arena of home Sky Movies brought viewers the Our performance over the last strong during 2010.
Today, one in ground-breaking World War Two 12 months and over the last testament to the importance five customers take all three of drama, The Pacific.
TV, broadband and home few years - gives us confidence that people place on their home that our strategy is working.
entertainment experience: an telephony from us and there is a Second, we look continually for More customers are choosing importance that is now widely significant opportunity for new ways to bring content to further growth.
Our proposition Sky than ever before and they recognised.
But it also reflects life through innovation.
A are choosing to take more from the steps that we have taken is based on value, reliability and powerful example of how us.
Not only have we grown our over a number of years to make simplicity, offering our customers respond to a better 4 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms to make a difference to the customers the opportunity to Review with a ruling that Sky supporting events such as the enjoy a high quality service and must wholesale some of its issues that people care about.
Our partnership save money when they switch premium channels at regulated with Artichoke, the UKs leading In addition to our commitment prices to other distributors.
We from their existing phone or public art producer, has to doing the right thing in our broadband provider to Sky.
believe that this is the wrong delivered a number of exciting day-to-day operations, we focus decision and that our prices are projects this year, including on three areas where we believe Alongside sensible investment fair, both for consumers and for Antony Gormleys One & Other we can make a real difference: in customer-facing areas of the the other companies which project in Trafalgar Square and business, we have focused helping to protect the carry our channels.
This is a the Lumire festival of light in equally hard on operational environment and tackle climate marketplace in which customers Durham.
After scaling the are very well served, with more business to manage a stepparticipation in sport at every Initiatives like these are not just choice and more innovation change in demand, we have level: and opening up the arts to the right thing to do: they are than ever.
We have begun an more people.
This has been a good business.
They give people made good progress in making appeal process.
year of good progress in each of our cost base more efficient, in more reasons to join Sky and particular by simplifying Beyond the challenge of these areas.
stay with us, whether thats processes in our supply chain unwarranted regulation, the customers, employees or We are taking more action to and back office functions.
outlook for the economy and business partners.
We see this minimise our environmental consumer spending remains as a vital component of longThis approach is translating impact through a new set of uncertain, particularly as the term, sustainable success.
challenging targets, including a into strong financial results, new Government takes action 25% reduction in gross CO with double-digit growth across Our talented people, as always, 2 to reduce the budget deficit.
At the board this financial year.
emissions tonnes m turnover are the key to that success.
I the same time, we continue to would like to thank them for the Group revenue increased 11% to by 2020.
Beyond our own operate in a competitive and 5,912 million on an adjusted footprint, we have launched a commitment, creativity and dynamic marketplace, in which basis.
Adjusted operating new project with WWF, Sky energy that they bring to Sky both existing players and new profit increased by 10% to Rainforest Rescue, to help save every day.
entrants challenging for 855 million, demonstrating three million hectares of Finally, it is appropriate to recustomers attention and accelerated returns as we move rainforest in Brazil.
Fundraising state here that on 15 June, the business.
As we move into the through our investments in high is on track and the project is Company announced that our next financial year, we intend definition and home progressing well on the ground.
largest shareholder, News therefore to maintain a high communications.
We delivered In sport, around 100,000 people Corporation, had approached degree of flexibility in order that record adjusted basic EPS of the Board with a proposal that of all ages and abilities joined in we can respond to both 31.1p, up 20% year on year, with our Sky Ride programme of could lead to a future offer to challenges and opportunities as reported EPS increasing to traffic-free events in its first take full ownership of Sky.
50.4p reflecting both the EDS year.
For summer 2010, weve Recognising that an offer could litigation settlement and the It is important to emphasise be in the interest of doubled the number of cities that the scale of the partial disposal of our hosting Sky Ride events and, in shareholders, Sky has agreed to investment in ITV.
Adjusted opportunity ahead of us parallel, we hope that our new co-operate with News free cash flow grew by 23% to remains substantial: around half Corporation in seeking the professional road racing team, of UK households have yet to 626 million.
Team Sky, will provide necessary clearances from the choose a pay TV service and It is notable that this strong inspiration as it competes in its relevant regulatory authorities.
almost 80% of our existing TV financial performance has been first season.
While this process continues, customers do not yet take both achieved during a year of This year also saw the 1,000th the Companys Independent broadband and talk from Sky.
This school join our Sky Sports Living Directors have put in place Notwithstanding factors indicates that our approach of structures to uphold the for Sport initiative, which uses outside our control, we believe combining disciplined participation in sport to inspire interests of all shareholders.
As that, with a clear direction and a investment with a continuous young people to be the best part of these arrangements, consistent set of priorities, the focus on operational efficiency they can be.
The initiative, run in Nicholas Ferguson, the Senior business is in good shape to is delivering the right balance partnership with the Youth Independent Non-Executive take advantage of these between growth and returns.
Sport Trust, has already reached Director, has been appointed as opportunities.
We intend to maintain this more than 25,000 students to Deputy Chairman of the Board.
balanced approach going Were proud of the contribution The management team remains date, helping them to grow in that Sky makes to life in the UK forward, as we believe it confidence and self-esteem.
fully focused on executing represents the best way to and Ireland: opening up more against our priorities, delivering Alongside our portfolio of Sky create value for shareholders.
choice, investing in great TV, for customers and increasing Arts channels, were also one of innovating for customers and While 2010 has been a good returns for all shareholders.
the UKs largest corporate contributing to the wider year for Sky, there are supporters of the arts, economy.
But we want to go challenges ahead.
Last year, partnering organisations like further by using our capabilities Jeremy Darroch Ofcom concluded its Pay TV English National Ballet and Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 5
