Business Review chief executives Review The increasingly important Britvic International business unit saw revenue growth of 15.2%, driven by an expanded portfolio, plus account wins in the export and travel sectors.
Margins continue to expand, and we have unveiled exciting new franchising developments for the Fruit Shoot brand in both the U. S. and Australia.
2010 proved to be a challenging year for businesses in Ireland and we were not immune to this pressure.
The Irish soft drinks market continued to decline in value and this impacted Britvic Ireland at both a revenue and profit level.
As a result of these long-term changes to the market the board has decided to take a 104.2m write-down on the carrying value of intangible and property assets.
In addition, we are reviewing the scale and goto-market effectiveness of operations in Ireland, and will report on the outcome of this review in due course.
We remain fully committed to the Irish business and firmly believe the strength of our portfolio will deliver growth when market recovery begins.
In the last year we have seen Britvic expand its operations into mainland Europe with the acquisition of Fruit Entreprises SA in May.
We believe this to be an excellent acquisition for Britvic and given the strong post-acquisition trading, that was in line with our expectations, we look forward to developing the Britvic France business over the next twelve months and beyond.
thE soFt DrInks markEt 2010 saw a return to growth for the GB take-home market following the 0.9% volume decline in 2009.
The GB takehome market was up 2.3% in volume and 6.3% in value.
Both carbonates and stills experienced similar levels of volume growth but carbonates drove the value growth with an impressive 9.2% improvement on last year.
In 2010 our gB business delivered revenue growth in both Within carbonates the cola, fruit and glucose stimulant subour carbonates and stills portfolios, and our International categories all enjoyed growth.
Glucose stimulant again saw division again drove double-digit revenue growth.
the double-digit growth, up 17.7% on last year.
Encouragingly all combined gB and International business is up 8.6% by carbonate sub-categories delivered value growth in the year.
Nearly all stills sub-categories in GB enjoyed growth in 2010.
The four building blocks for revenue growth in GB continued For example, squash, and juice drinks saw strong value growth to underpin our performance in 2010: of 5.6% and 7.4% respectively.
Dairy was the only stills subcategory in value decline, albeit by only 0.1%.
Market volume growth of 2-3% in an average year Once again it is branded soft drinks that have driven GB market Actual GB market growth of 2.3% growth in 2010 as private label share continues to decline.
Innovation expected to add 1-2% to the GB top line over The GB Pub & Club soft drinks market faced continuing a full year challenges in the year, with a quarterly and MAT to July volume 2010 saw this figure exceeded decline of 5.0%.
The football World Cup failed to deliver a favourable impact, and the uncertain consumer environment Driving on-the-go distribution looks set to continue within this channel into 2011.
On-the-go value share up 0.6% this year Source: Nielsen In France market value grew by 3.8%, with all categories except MAT October 2010 flavoured water in growth.
Britvic France currently materially operates only in the syrup and pure juice categories, which were ARP up by at least 1% in an average year up by 3.3% and 3.8% in value respectively.
An average increase of 1.2% over the last two years in GB.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 15 Business Review chief executives Review cOntinued As Irish consumers seek value in their spending the larger 2.
InnovatIon anD proDuct launchEs grocers and European discounters have enjoyed growth.
The The 2010 innovation stream saw the introduction of a new combination of this shift in spending habits and the increasingly brand, brand extensions and new pack formats designed to competitive landscape can be highlighted by the total grocery deliver ARP, revenue and margin accretion.
market data where volumes are up 4.3% but value is down The iconic North American brand Mountain Dew was introduced 5.4%.
In the last year we have seen significant shifts in with a new energy formulation developed specifically for the consumer-shopping behaviours.
Channels that have traditionally UK consumer.
Initially only available in 500ml for the on-thebeen a strength of the Irish business such as the licensed and go occasion it has been especially successful, driving 70% of convenience channels have continued to decline, losing value forecourt glucose-energy growth and 90% of overall glucose ahead of volume.
stimulant category growth Source: Synovate 12 weeks to BrItvIcs stratEgy ExEcutIon Aug 2010.
Although it is still early in its development it has Management action this year has continued to focus on five surpassed our high expectations and we are very optimistic for main areas: its prospects in 2011.
1. supportIng anD growIng our corE gB BranDs The 600ml pack for the low no sugar carbonates brands, Brand creation and development are at the heart of what we do referenced earlier, was introduced to provide a bigger bottle with at Britvic.
Britvic GBs six core brands are Pepsi, 7UP, Robinsons better value across Pepsi Max, Diet Pepsi, Tango and 7UP-Free.
squash, Tango, Fruit Shoot and J O, and they are the key profit This has been well received and has played a major part in 2 drivers of our current GB business and therefore the brands to driving our carbonates ARP and revenue growth.
which we allocate greatest resource.
Other supporting brands The J O brand has been extended with the introduction of the 2 help to leverage customer relationships with scale and account White Blend sub-brand.
The formulation has been specially wins.
We continue to invest in our strong portfolio of brands developed for the with-food occasion and recently won a Gold through both innovation and media, to ensure that they are Award at The Publican Licensees Choice Awards in the Best preferred by consumers.
Examples of our successful core GB New Drink category which covers both alcoholic and nonbrand performances are shown below: alcoholic drinks.
Pepsi continued to grow its share of the cola category this Robinsons squash saw the development of Select, aimed year, gaining both volume and value share in all of the regular, at older consumers with a range of more exotic flavour diet and Max variants.
The campaign based around the FIFA combinations.
This new 850ml pack has again supported our football World Cup finals saw another engaging consumer aim of growing ARP and margin through innovation.
campaign that was the platform to gain share despite the brand not being a primary sponsor of the tournament.
The This year has seen a focus on the nurture of our innovation successful introduction of the upsized 600ml carbonates pack launches from 2008 and 2009.
Lipton Ice Tea, Juicy drench for the non-sugar variants led to significant growth in volume, and Robinsons Be Natural continue to grow and establish revenue, rate of sale and points of distribution for the brand.
As an example, Juicy drench has become the most successful soft-drink launch within Robinsons maintained its position as the number one squash the Impulse channel in the last three years Source: Nielsen in GB, growing in both volume and value.
2010 saw the 75th March 2010. anniversary of its association with Wimbledon tennis and consumer campaigns that leveraged this heritage and our The Gatorade brand has not fully met our expectations, and recently established association with the pantomime season.
learning from this, we are undertaking a substantial relaunch of the brand in 2011, with a refocus on packaging, flavour profiles The Fruit Shoot brand remains the number one kids drink and brand equity.
brand Source: Nielsen MAT to October 2010 with its range offering kids and parents a choice of variants and pack sizes to 3.
BrItvIc IntErnatIonal meet all occasions.
The addition of the premium offering, MyOur International business has seen particular success in recent 5, attracted shoppers and parents who were engaged with years with our products available in over 50 countries.
Britvic the high-juice and quality attributes of the proposition.
International is now embarking on a three-pronged growth strategy across export, travel and licensing franchising.
Both Tango and 7UP enjoyed double-digit market value growth this year reflecting our strength within the fruit Its performance in the year was driven by an expanded portfolio carbonates category.
The introduction of the 600ml pack for including J O, Tango and drench, plus account wins in the 2 both brands, the reintroduction of the 440ml can for Tango export and travel sectors such as Virgin Atlantic.
Margins and relevant campaigns for the consumer helped to deliver continue to expand, and we have unveiled exciting new this growth.
franchising developments for the Fruit Shoot brand in both the U. S. and Australia.
16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 As part of its licensing and franchising ambitions, we have We believe some of these factors will have a longer-term impact recently entered into a long-term manufacturing and distribution on the market and this has led us to write-down the carrying agreement with Bickfords Australia for Fruit Shoot, a brand that value of intangible assets and properties by 104.2m as a nonis increasingly demonstrating that it has worldwide potential.
Management has been focused on Bickfords is an Adelaide-based manufacturer of premium soft ensuring that we have the appropriate business model in place drink brands.
Bickfords has complete national go-to-market to deliver future growth and ensure we are in the right shape capability and has a proven track record of building premium to take advantage of the opportunities that will develop in the brands.
Bickfords therefore represents an ideal partner for medium-term.
We will announce details on this new significant Britvic in this market.
go-to-market structure in due course.
Under the agreement, Bickfords will manufacture, market 5. thE acquIsItIon oF FruIt EntrEprIsEs sa and sell the brand, with Britvic supplying key juice and flavour In May 2010 we successfully concluded the acquisition of ingredients.
Specific formulations and packaging solutions have Fruit Entreprises SA and its brands such as Teisseire a syrup, been designed for the Australian market, following extensive or dilutables brand that is as familiar to French households market research.
This represents our first acquisition in mainland Europe and creates the opportunity to develop both Britvic will also be making financial contributions to the A&P the existing French brands as well as introduce new brands.
campaign to deliver consumer awareness and increase demand, The renamed Britvic France business produces both syrups and consistent with the approach taken in Europe.
pure juices under the Teisseire, Moulin fide Valdonne, Pressade and Fruit brands as well as having a significant private-label There is a well established and clearly defined kids drink business.
In the French market private label has a bigger role to category in Australia.
Our long-term ambition is to establish Fruit play than in GB and gives us the economies of scale to compete Shoot as one of the leading brands in the category, with the effectively.
express intention of adding value to a category that has, certainly in the recent past, been promotionally led.
The integration and trading since acquisition have performed in line with our high expectations, and we remain confident of Over the past couple of years, we have also been trialling Fruit delivering the announced 17m of synergies by 2013.
The French Shoot in the South-Eastern U. S. with Buffalo Rock, one of the management team have been retained and bring with them years largest independent Pepsi bottlers in the US, as part of a longof experience of selling soft drinks in France, and we are delighted term distribution arrangement.
to welcome our new colleagues to the Britvic group.
We are also very excited about further trialling and distribution summary of Fruit Shoot on the Eastern Seaboard of the U. S. in recent We have delivered continued strong growth across our core GB months with an additional bottling partner.
We have been in and International businesses, consolidating our brands leading discussion about the brand with a number of bottlers in the U. S. positions in the sub-categories where they compete.
The rapidly this year and a strong trial performance has ensured a positive growing International division has now entered an exciting new response.
We anticipate that the recent success will lead to a phase in its development, and we are confident that we start full commercial roll-out in these additional states in 2011.
This the 2011 financial year with a fresh and relevant go-to-market performance bodes well for further expansion and engagement structure in Ireland.
With the acquisition of Britvic France, we are with other bottlers and, importantly, the potential for the local now established as a leading European soft drinks business that manufacture of Fruit Shoot.
continues to build on its proven track record of growth.
Britvic has a portfolio of brands which have the potential to create value on a wider platform and we are committed to exploiting these opportunities through developing local relationships with suitable bottling partners around the world.
Finally, the exciting forthcoming full launch of Fruit Shoot in Belgium, launched under the Teisseire brand as an export-based operation, has the potential to match the success of the brand in paul moody the Netherlands.
We will disclose further details of this launch in Chief Executive due course.
BrItvIc IrElanD The economic challenges in Ireland are well documented and have had a material impact on the performance of the Ireland business unit.
Both revenue and margin have come under severe pressure as retailers and manufacturers respond to the changing consumer environment.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 17 18 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 19 2pm dOing the fAmily shOp in, RickmAnswORth
