Business Review Chief Executives Statement In conversation with Gavin Slark Q: Which are the new markets Q: How does your latest The Group is in good shape with a strong balance sheet and resilient revenue that you have entered into?
is primarily driven by essential repair and A: We have entered into the A: UGS extends our above ground maintenance activity.
Revenue has held up drainage, renewables, spares drainage offer to below ground.
well throughout the financial year as BSS markets and water industry.
UGS, an underground specialist has absorbed the worst of the recession and returned to growth in the fourth quarter of the business, offers BSS considerable financial year.
2009 10 has been a busy year Q: Can you explain the scope for growth by providing for the Group: we have repositioned resources resilience of the Group an opportunity to expand both and reduced our cost base whilst continuing to compared to the industry?
the product range and national invest to support a number of organic growth coverage.
A: Our revenue is primarily initiatives.
Two new businesses were acquired, DHS and UGS, and they offer tremendous based on repair and Q: How many branches do you growth potential in new markets.
maintenance with limited plan to open in the coming year?
exposure to new build and The resilience of underlying revenue has been A: We have opened 18 branches government spend.
partly due to a keen focus on keeping close during the year and plan to to our customers, serving their needs and open a similar number in the Q: How will you counter recognising the pressures they faced in the coming year.
the expected downturn in recessionary market of 2009.
Being flexible to changing customer requirements has been key government spend?
A: The exposure has been BSS has delivered sector leading results with assessed and new markets revenue growth and earnings resilience despite New revenue streams have taken root entered to off set the potential the toughest year for the economy in more and gross margin has been supported by than 70 years.
the benefits of a direct sourcing capability acquired with Birchwood Products in 2008.
The business has demonstrated its ability The leverage that Birchwood has provided in to navigate the icebergs, handling well the this area has been essential to us remaining short term tactical issues, whilst remaining competitive.
Costs have been reduced as strategically strong.
the business has met the challenges of a contracting market.
Like for like employee The teams within the business have shown numbers have been reduced by 5% as market true strength of character, maintaining a circumstances have been re-assessed.
positive attitude whilst having to remain flexible in some cases redeploying or The Group remains well funded with the reducing manpower.
capacity, flexibility and longevity of funding needed to take advantage of any development The culture within the Group is a key opportunities that may arise in the near term.
component as we continue to identify new With net debt of 85.3m at year end growth opportunities in adjacent markets whilst 2009: 86.0m, the Group remains well at the same time recruiting new customers and positioned with available funding of 127m winning new contracts in our core businesses.
6 6 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 7 Gavin Slark Strategy Group Chief Executive Despite the recession in the wider economy throughout most of 2009 our strategy has remained unchanged: we continue to drive for profitable, cash generative organic growth in the existing businesses and continue to look for opportunities in adjacent markets where we have knowledge and expertise and where we believe we can add value.
The business remains resilient as a specialist distributor with revenue primarily driven by R & M activity much of which is non-discretionary.
Our strategic focus remains on four core elements: Consistently delivering excellent customer service Strong leadership and sensible business practices Profitable organic growth and value enhancing acquisitions A results driven culture The challenge throughout the last year has The BSS Groups Strategy been to reposition BSS during a period of contracting markets and competitive Key Strategies: pressures, to scale down resource, to change the mix of skills in the business Drive for profitable, cash generative organic growth in support of the drive into new revenue streams in anticipation of further change in through superior service the marketplace.
Continue to look for opportunities in adjacent markets where we have knowledge and expertise and where we believe we can add value Outlook: We are confident that 2010 11 will be a better year for the Group The increase in the final dividend of 10% is reflective of that confidence 6 6 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7 7 Business Review We are pleased with the performance of the new revenue streams.
New sectors, new markets and new customers have been targeted and the business reorganised to improve focus and deliver growth.
There is a sense of urgency within the Company to reshape the Group to be more flexible and to recognise Competitive pressures have been intense the changing needs of our customers to throughout the year, though there have been secure new market opportunities and to signs of stability in recent months with price acknowledge that beyond the general inflation feeding through on copper and election public finances will be tighter.
Stronger contract sales and excellent Government funded capital expenditure performance from F & P Wholesale F & P represents about 10% of Group revenue have contributed to overall margin dilution.
but we continue to seek new growth from other sources and sectors that will provide Gross margin recovery in 2010 11 is a key attractive revenue opportunities that should objective and we remain confident that more than offset the anticipated reduction progress can be made as the broaded in pubic sector investment.
New employees have joined the Group The costs to sales ratio decreased to in the last year with skills, knowledge and 17.5% 2009: 18.0%, with like for like customer relationships geared to delivering costs down 5.6% in the year.
As a result of new revenue streams.
Spares, renewables action taken, annualised costs have been drainage and water generated revenue of reduced by 13.4m.
Operating margin, 54m, year on year growth of 76%.
Further before exceptional costs and amortisation of upside in new revenue streams is targeted.
intangibles, was 4.07% 2009: 5.06% with the reduction in gross margin partly offset Results by a reduction in the costs to sales ratio.
New revenue contributed to total revenue Productivity continues to improve with sales growth of 11.8m 0.9% to 1,352.4m per employee up 3% 2009: 3% with 2009: 1,340.6m.
Group revenue in the investment in infrastructure and systems second half was up 5.5% on an equivalent supporting the improvement achieved.
trading day basis with LFL revenue up 1.8% against a 6.8% decline in the first half.
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional Revenue performance in all Divisions has charges decreased by 12.8m 19% to improved as the year progressed, with the 55.0m 2009: 67.8m.
Domestic Division benefiting from early cycle recovery in the broader economy.
Core New sectors, new markets and new repair and maintenance revenue remained customers have been targeted and the resilient throughout the financial year despite business recognised to improve focus and the level of change in the business and a deliver growth.
The acquisition of DHS severe recession throughout most of 2009. and UGS open up new growth potential LFL growth in quarter four of the financial for BSS and we believe we have bought year was 6.6% against a 2.6% LFL decline in well.
DHS achieved a 35% ROCE in its quarter three, with clear signs of recovery in first full year of Group ownership and UGS, all three divisions.
acquired on 5 February 2010, for 5.2m, provides the Group with a major player in Gross margin reduced to 21.2% of revenue the underground drainage market.
Both 2009: 22.9% reflecting competitive market companies provide BSS with significant conditions and mix dilution, as relatively new growth potential in markets that have lower margin businesses outperformed.
8 8 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 9 Five Reasons to Invest 1.
Resilient revenue Demand for our products is primarily driven by repair and maintenance R & M activity, much of which is considered essential.
In particular, boiler and radiator markets and associated products, which account for a large proportion of our sales, remain robust.
This non-discretionary spend in the heating market has proven to be resilient throughout the recession.
Underlying demand for our product increasing We anticipate that underlying demand for product used to repair, maintain and improve existing facilities will increase driven by UK population growth and increased population density.
The need to maintain existing facilities and an increased requirement for new homes which underpin revenue growth.
Price inelasticity Our products are required to undertake essential repair and maintenance.
We recognise the influence of competitive market conditions and remaining price competitive but the underlying demand for our product is primarily price inelastic.
A robust business model Our trade customers have a need for what we do and this need will remain.
We add value through: consolidation of product: delivery to point of use: adapting our offer to meet customer need: providing availability: product knowledge and through leveraging procurement and sourcing.
The business model underpinning our trade remains robust.
New revenue streams We are growing revenue in segments of the market where we have minimal penetration and where the growth dynamics are strong.
These markets include: spares, renewables, drainage and meeting the needs of the water industry.
8 8 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9 9
