BUSINESS REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have delivered another set of strong results in 2010, in spite of Retail London Market the continued challenging trading conditions in all our key markets.
These challenges included a very soft rating environment, intense UNDERLYING UNDERLYING competition and historically low interest rates in many parts of the TOTAL TRADING TOTAL TRADING REVENUE m PROFIT m REVENUE m PROFIT m world.
Overall, the Group achieved a 21% increase in revenues in 2010, 305.7 270.9 64.0 65.7 representing a 14% increase at constant rates of exchange.
Our continued market-leading organic growth of 7% has been 46.0 221.0 53.1 273.9 achieved by winning market share through substantial new business wins and increased client penetration across the whole Group.
Our growing contribution from operations in high-growth economies, coupled with the benefits of the investments we have made in leading industry professionals, systems and acquisitions, 09 10 10 09 10 09 10 09 means that we entered 2011 with real momentum, excitement and ambition for what JLT can become.
TRADING MARGIN TRADING MARGIN Key financial highlights 21% 24% 19% 21% 2009 2010 2009 2010 Our Risk & Insurance group delivered a 17% increase in revenues, or 8% at constant rates of exchange, reflecting our continuing ability to drive strong organic growth.
Within our Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits Thistle Insurance group, our retail businesses had a stellar year, fuelled by our Asian Services UNDERLYING UNDERLYING and Latin American operations, delivering 10% organic growth and TOTAL TRADING TOTAL TRADING an improved trading margin up by 3 percentage points to 24%.
REVENUE m PROFIT m REVENUE m PROFIT m Our London Market operations delivered organic growth of 6%, 132.0 representing a strong performance in the face of very challenging 22.4 37.7 4.8 market conditions.
The reported trading profit margin increased by 2 percentage points due to the benefit of favourable currency 90.5 3.3 14.7 movements.
The trading margin at constant rates of exchange remained unchanged on the prior year as we continued to invest in 34.0 recruiting leading industry professionals, adding further to our overall capabilities and growth prospects.
09 10 09 10 09 10 09 10 TRADING MARGIN TRADING MARGIN 16% 17% 10% 13% 2009 2010 2009 2010 A key element of JLT's success in 2010, and of the platform we have created for the years ahead, has been our ability to attract, develop, and just as importantly, retain some of the best people in the market.
8 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW Our Employee Benefits group delivered underlying organic growth We have achieved this profit growth despite a reduction of over of 4%.
This is a pleasing outcome in a year when its primary focus 10 million in investment income over the last three years, as has been on the successful integration of the HSBC Actuaries & interest rates have declined to historically low levels in many parts Consultants Ltd HACL and iimia Wealth Management of the world.
In 2010, investment income contributed less than 5% acquisitions, which have contributed to an overall revenue increase to the Groups profits, compared to 22% in 2007.
Our employee benefits business now investment income our underlying trading profit has achieved contributes 18% of the Groups total revenues.
The trading margin compound annual growth of 26% over the last three years.
This is improved from 16% to 17% and we expect further improvement in as a consequence of the efforts we have made in improving the 2011 as the full benefits of the HACL and iimia integrations flow sustainability and quality of our earnings throughout the Groups through to the bottom line.
Thistle Insurance Services, our underwriting and distribution As a result, we have grown our underlying earnings per share over company, has been able to deliver an 11% increase in revenues, the last three years by 56%, achieving an annual compound which includes organic growth of 6%.
The business has also seen growth rate of 16%.
an improvement in its trading margin which we expect to grow as Our strong performance in 2010, and indeed over the last three we build scale.
Work on the introduction of the Thistle business years, has been achieved despite facing strong headwinds in both model to our operations in Australia, Canada and beyond is also the insurance broking and employee benefits sectors.
Notwithstanding the benefit of favourable exchange rate Details of the performance of each individual business area are set movements, we have faced a very soft rating environment, a out in the Review of Operations on pages 14 to 21. continued period of low interest rates, the ongoing impact of the financial crisis on consumer and business confidence, rising unemployment in many major economies and a reduction in Placing our performance in perspective government spending with a resulting impact on the private sector.
This years 21% increase in revenues comes on the back of a All of these factors have led to an ever-more robust competitive continuous period of strong organic revenue growth.
Over the last environment, as brokers and insurers have battled for market three years we have grown our revenues by 52%, of which 21% share.
This represents a compound annual growth rate of 15%.
The growth we have achieved in 2010 is therefore testament to the efforts and energy of all my colleagues and to the continued Importantly, this strong revenue growth has not come at the cost of support of our clients and the wider insurance markets around the profitability.
Over the same three-year period, our underlying trading world.
profit has grown by 63%, a compound annual growth rate of 18%, achieved whilst continuing to make significant investments in Debate has continued within the insurance industry around the remarket leading industry professionals and infrastructure.
introduction of contingent commissions whereby insurers pay brokers revenues over and above commissions earned directly on the clients business.
At JLT our primary focus will always remain Total Revenue Underlying on our clients: it is through our continued success in winning and m Diluted EPS retaining business that we see the greatest opportunity to continue PENCE our track record of delivering strong rates of organic growth.
To support our belief in transparency we have for many years 746.3 40.5p disclosed in our annual report earnings received by way of incentive or contingent commissions.
In 2010 we received 33.8p 619.3 9.9 million, being approximately 1% of the Group's revenue for 30.4p the year.
551.9 26.0p 490.6 Attracting and developing the best people A key element of JLTs success in 2010, and of the platform we have created for the years ahead, has been our ability to attract, develop and, just as importantly, retain some of the best people in 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 the market.
3 YEAR COMPOUND ANNUAL 3 YEAR COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE OF GROWTH RATE OF 16% 15% Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 9 BUSINESS REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Today JLTs full advisory broking services are structured according During the year, we were able to strengthen our specialist teams substantially by attracting leading industry professionals from to industry specialisms and are operated nationally or region-wide.
around the world to join us in areas such as aviation, financial lines, Good progress has been made and this is opening up new sales professional services and non-marine reinsurance.
People join JLT opportunities which will support further organic growth in the future.
because they want to be part of a strong team whose reputation This approach ensures that we are adding real value to our clients and has been reflected in the market leading positions we have for client service, integrity and excellence is, we believe, unrivalled.
JLT also offers something distinctive in the market to both new and been able to build around the world.
For example, more than 30% existing employees - a strong entrepreneurial and innovation-led of the FT Global 500 companies are JLT clients.
culture, that encourages people to be creative and does not constrain them with unnecessary management layers and Expanding our reach and relevance processes.
2010 has shown the continued fruits of our strategy to expand our international reach and relevance, especially in the high-growth It is vital that JLT continues to invest in talent when the right economies of the world.
This is driven by the desire to position the opportunities present themselves.
But our focus remains on business to fully participate in the growth, increasing prosperity and ensuring that our new colleagues add value quickly and, just as influence of the faster growing economies of the world.
It also importantly, that they enrich rather than dilute JLTs unique culture assists us in better serving our existing clients who are looking to and values, of which we are fiercely protective.
expand their own operations in these same markets.
Acting as One Firm Asia delivered a strong performance in 2010 with powerful organic 2010 has seen a continued drive towards operating as One Firm, growth of 20%, clear evidence that we continue to better exploit to bring the best of JLT to all our clients and trading partners.
our strong market position in an exciting and developing part of the In practical terms, this means not allowing artificial boundaries such world.
Our senior team in Asia has been strengthened over the last as reporting lines, profit centres or geographical location to stand in 12 months by the recruitment of a number of leading industry the way of protecting our clients interests.
professionals and we have achieved significant new business wins in the Aviation, Major Corporate, Construction and Employee In 2010 there were many examples of different parts of JLT from Benefits specialisms.
around the world working together to share their experience and expertise.
This is not only across our Risk & Insurance businesses Our Latin American LATAM businesses again showed impressive but also includes our Employee Benefits capabilities.
Our One Firm results driven by organic growth of 25%.
With a trading profit approach demands that all parts of the business work together to contribution of 11.7 million, LATAM is becoming an increasingly deliver client solutions.
important part of the Group.
It should also be remembered that our LATAM businesses, alongside our other regional activities, produce significant revenue flows to our London market operations.
Delivering on our specialisms 2010 has seen a continued focus of our activities and the growth of A further indication of our commitment to targeted international specialisms in offering distinctive products, value-added services growth is our recent announcement of a new start-up operation in and independent choice to our clients.
Specialist areas include South Africa, a market we are committed to both in its own right aerospace, oil and gas, marine, life sciences, telecommunications, and as a gateway to sub-Saharan Africa.
In addition we expanded construction and financial lines - risks which are complex, fastour European operations with the acquisition of Tripol in Norway, a changing, and rely on deep industry expertise to meet each clients specialty broker with expertise in Real Estate and Construction.
We also continue to invest in the development of the JLT During 2010 our UK advisory retail business was successfully International Network, an important strategic asset comprising both integrated into JLT Specialty, the new name for Jardine Lloyd Group members wholly and partially owned and selected partners Thompson Limited.
This change underlines the Companys position in countries where we have chosen not to invest, or have not yet as one of Londons leading specialty brokers and it has enabled invested.
In 2010 we acquired a 20% stake in GrECo and reached JLTs specialty capabilities to be more successfully promoted an exclusivity agreement with Ecclesia underpinning our drive into throughout our UK regional offices.
The early success of this Germany and Austria and the emerging markets of Eastern Europe.
strategy has been demonstrated by JLT Specialty winning the UK National Broker of the Year award.
2010 also saw our Australasian, Canadian and Asian operations accelerating their move away from being generic mid-market broking operations and from 2011 onwards, our specialist Aerospace insurance broking capabilities have transferred from JLT Re to JLT Specialty.
10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW As the programme has matured, we have identified further ways in Delivering strong organic which it can add value, leading us to believe that by the end of the programme in June 2012, we should be able to achieve recurring growth with an increasing annual savings of 16 million for a total cumulative cost of 19 million.
This is up from our original target of 14 million annual contribution from high-growth savings at a cumulative cost of 18 million.
A significant part of these savings have come from re-engineering and then moving a series of back office processes to our whollyowned facility in Mumbai.
This has led to a marked improvement in Organic growth the quality of the output.
Inspired by these successes, our operating businesses are now investing in expanding the remit of Risk & Insurance our Mumbai operation so that it evolves into a knowledge centre, in addition to its more transactional responsibilities.
Australasia 2% Asia 20% Seizing the opportunity Macro-economic conditions remain very challenging and the rating Latin America 25% environment soft.
However, we have seen severe natural Canada 11% catastrophes in the last quarter of 2010 and into 2011, most recently the earthquake in Japan and its tragic aftermath.
It is too Europe 6% early to gauge whether the combination of these losses will have any lasting effect on the rating environment.
Ins Management 2% A harder insurance market would undoubtedly be helpful to insurers Retail 10% but this is much less clear for brokers, who tend to benefit more from a stronger economy, which is certainly the case for JLT.
JLT Specialty 6% Furthermore, the breadth, scope and health of JLTs business Lloyd & Partners 4% places it in a strong position to continue to grow.
Our focus on specialisms and value-added services has JLT Re 8% strengthened our position in sharp contrast to other more commoditised offerings.
And our increasing activity in high-growth London Market 6% economies has positioned us to participate in the strong growth of those markets.
Finally, of course, any upward movement in interest 4% Employee Benets rates will feed into an improvement in our investment income and thus earnings.
Thistle Insurance 6% Services It is by focusing on balancing the interests of our clients, our people, our insurance partners and of course our shareholders, that Group Total 7% we have been able to deliver continued success in 2010 and build real momentum and belief.
And it is by continuing to drive this Organic growth is fees and commissions excluding the impact of momentum, that we believe we will take JLT to new heights of acquisitions, disposals and the impact of currency.
Driving efficiency and effectiveness In 2010 we continued to invest in the efficiency and effectiveness of our systems and processes, in the knowledge that as JLT grows in size and complexity, we need to be smarter about using technology to automate or simplify our processes where we can.
We are now at the halfway mark of our three-year business transformation programme and by the end of 2010, we had cumulatively spent some 14 million of exceptional costs, securing Dominic Burke recurring annual savings of 11 million.
We are reinvesting these Chief Executive savings directly into the business and over time they should earn 22nd March 2011 further returns.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 11
