7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:38 Page 10 10 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executive Officers review We have big ambitions in the short and long term A strong financial performance in 2009 10 was Establishing US commercial operations Another area of tremendous activity has been the setting matched by solid progress in our operations.
up of all of the new systems and processes that have to be Our near-term focus remains on assuming in place for us to sell our own products in the US.
As this is direct sales and marketing responsibility for a new activity, we needed to recruit experienced personnel CroFab and DigiFab, and on advancing our in key areas such as sales, marketing, medical affairs and development programmes including Varisolve.
I am absolutely delighted To meet our longer-term growth ambitions, with the calibre of new recruits we have been able to attract we are also actively reviewing opportunities to and how quickly they have taken ownership of key activities.
acquire additional products that we can market Our US commercial operations are now almost all in place, in the US and programmes that we can add and we look forward to marketing our two approved to our development pipeline.
products, CroFab and DigiFab, from October 2010 when we regain sales and marketing rights.
On a stand-alone Integration of Protherics basis, this is a profitable acute care franchise.
Its strategic Our acquisition of Protherics in December 2008 evidenced importance to BTG is that we can use it as a growth platform our ambitions to develop BTG as a sustainable, growing to add new products, increasing top-line revenues, product specialty pharmaceuticals business.
Within a few months margins and overall profitability.
of completion, we had prioritised the combined development portfolio, started a cost-reduction programme and initiated a We are actively reviewing opportunities to acquire products reorganisation of the Groups operations to increase efficiency.
that are already on the market, nearing approval or in latestage development.
There is always competition for good We set a target of achieving a 10m reduction in overhead assets, so we are focusing on niche products that leverage costs and a 10m reduction in research and development our US operations and therefore may be a better t for us expenditure by the end of the current 2010 11 financial year.
As the results for 2009 10 demonstrate, we are making rapid progress in meeting these targets and we are delivering We are seeking products that leverage either the specialist ahead of schedule.
sales force that will sell CroFab and DigiFab or the supporting infrastructure, i. e. our medical affairs, compliance, Less visible, but equally important, there has been a huge finance, distribution and other processes.
amount of work in the background to harmonise research and development processes, financial reporting and Examples of the former are products that are administered IT systems, HR policies, corporate and tax structure and by the same emergency room physicians as CroFab and many other business processes.
I am grateful to all of our DigiFab.
An example of the latter is Varisolve, where a employees for their continued focus on meeting business new specialist sales team that calls on vein clinics would be objectives throughout these changes.
supported by the existing commercial support infrastructure.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:38 Page 11 11 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Theres tremendous excitement all over the company.
We are poised to start selling our own products, key programmes are moving forward and were actively reviewing opportunities for further growth.
Louise Makin Chief Executive officer 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:38 Page 12 12 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executive Officers review continued Varisolve is a  opportunity Building our business on strong core values We indicated at the time of our interim results that we were Although BTG has a long history and strong heritage, considering funding the Phase III trials of Varisolve in the we are in many ways a new company.
Born of the merger US and marketing it ourselves in the US reimbursed sector.
of BTG and Protherics, we are adding new employees Having gained comfort about the trials through the Special and embarking on new activities.
We have big ambitions, Protocol Assessment SPA process with the FDA, and about and to achieve them we need a shared vision, strategy and the potential market size from our market research, we have commitment from all our employees.
now confirmed that this is our intention.
We are continuing to explore partnering in the US self-pay or cosmetic market, Early on in the integration process, the Leadership Team while seeking to understand more fully the potential in other developed a new vision for BTG and identied a set of core geographic markets.
We want to make these values underpin everything we do as an organisation and all of our interactions with We estimate it will cost around $55m to get Varisolve our colleagues, patients, physicians and business partners.
This includes the clinical trial and regulatory costs as well as the necessary investments in We have engaged with employees across the business about manufacturing and the supply chain.
This is a large though these values, through workshops, our Intranet, company-wide affordable investment, which is why we have taken our time meetings and other channels.
We have made the values to understand everything we can about what is required central to how we plan and conduct our affairs, and we have to achieve the product label that opens up the market embedded them into our HR processes and into our we believe exists.
By undergoing the SPA process with the corporate and personal objectives.
FDA, we believe we have now fide-risked the development pathway sufciently so that we can condently move forward.
We have made our values core to everything we do, as we truly believe this makes us more competitive and more able Our market research suggests that the market opportunity to succeed in achieving our goals.
I have been inspired by for Varisolve in the US reimbursed sector alone is in the how readily and rapidly colleagues throughout BTG have $250m to $500m range.
If peak sales are only at the lower embraced our values and taken ownership of making them end of that range, the impact on BTGs revenues and profits integral to all our activities and interactions.
We believe that Varisolve has significant advantages for patients, physicians and payers, This is a great foundation for an ambitious, growing business.
and thus has the potential to become the leading product in the US for treating medically serious varicose veins.
Louise Makin Varisolve represents an excellent investment opportunity Chief Executive officer which ts perfectly with our strategy.
Investing in Varisolve will affect our reported results in the near term.
We are on track to achieve the 10m reduction in research and development expenditure on the prioritised pipeline following the Protherics acquisition.
However, our decision on Varisolve means that reported research and development costs will increase over the coming two to three years.
We make this investment with confidence built on the stable financial foundations we have created over the past year.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:38 Page 13 13 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Priorities Priorities in 2009 10 How we performed Our priorities in 2010 11 1 Achieve profit and 1 Targets achieved 1 Financial management cash targets at stretch levels Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit and cash targets Achieve new licence revenue target 2 Make progress in 2 Key sales, marketing, 2 Commercial establishing US commercial medical affairs hires made Initiate sales of CroFab operations to prepare and DigiFab for selling CroFab and Agreements in place Successful audit DigiFab with contract sales and of compliance systems other support organisations Progress DPC CroFab for 2012 introduction 3 Seek to acquire in-license 3 Product acquisition team 3Growth additional programmes and process established Expand marketed to sell through the planned products and pipeline US hospital sales force Several opportunities in line with strategy ongoing 4 Achieve planned 4 Achieved at on-target 4 Development development milestones level overall Progress Varisolve Phase III programme Submit final part of Voraxaze BLA 5 Partner at least one 5 Acadra licensed 5 Operations programme from the to Advancell Manage supply chain current pipeline to meet commercial production targets Achieve targeted increases in production yields
