| Governance Directors report Remuneration report 2010 was a mixed year for markets with considerable volatility in the first half, followed by strong growth in the second half against a backdrop of global economic uncertainty.
determining the individual remuneration and benefits package Despite such uncertainty, we had a successful year in terms of asset of each of the Chairman of the Company, the executive Directors, gathering, overall fund performance, recruitment of talent and each member of the Executive Committee and such other senior launching new products all achieved in a year of considerable activity executives and fund managers as the Remuneration Committee associated with our Listing.
may designate: and setting objectives, considering performance and approving bonus The financial crisis over the last few years has resulted in additional proposals for FSA Remuneration Code Staff.
FSA Remuneration scrutiny of financial services pay and the introduction of regulation for Code Staff include senior management, heads of control functions asset management remuneration in the form of the FSA Remuneration and other significant risk-takers, including those registered with Code.
Jupiter has for many years adopted the approach of rewarding the FSA as persons who perform a Significant Influence Function good performance and ensuring that employee rewards are in line with as defined in the FSA Rules.
To this end, fixed pay at Jupiter is targeted at the market median with reward for good performance coming through The remuneration of all non-executive Directors other than the variable pay bonus and equity participation through the retention Chairman is a matter for the Chairman and the executive members LTIP.
The bonus pool is funded out of profits each year and it has long of the Board.
been Jupiters practice to defer a significant element of large bonuses.
The net result of our established remuneration approach is that very The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys little change has had to be made to the remuneration structure to meet website and the Chairman of the Committee will be available at the the requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code.
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Our emphasis on variable pay through the bonus scheme and employee equity participation has served us well for many years.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee We believe that it will continue to motivate and retain our employees, support the delivery of our strategic growth objectives and help to The Remuneration Committee comprises two independent nonattract additional talent.
executive Directors namely, Matteo Dante Perruccio and Lorraine Trainer, Jamie Dundas, the Companys Chairman who at the time This report describes Jupiters remuneration policy and gives details of appointment was independent for the purposes of the Code, of the compensation arrangements for Directors for the year ended and Michael Wilson, a non-executive Director nominated by TA 31 December 2010.
It is the first remuneration report of the Company Associates, Inc. Jamie Dundas is the Chairman of the Remuneration following Listing in June 2010.
This report has been prepared on Committee at present.
Lorraine Trainer will be appointed in his place behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the following the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Edward Bonham Carter and Adrian Creedy were members of the and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Remuneration Committee until 1 June 2010 when they stepped down from the Committee in anticipation of Listing.
Role, Composition and Practice of the Frequency of meetings Remuneration Committee From Listing to 31 December 2010 the Remuneration Committee held 4 meetings.
Going forward, the Committees normal agenda and Role of the Remuneration Committee activities have been formulated on the basis of five scheduled meetings in each year.
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including: Details of attendance at the Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
determining and agreeing with the Board the overarching policy for the remuneration of the Groups employees and ensuring Advisers it is structured in a way that aligns reward with performance and shareholder interests and promotes effective risk management: The Committee does not currently have external advisers, but is authorised to appoint such advisers if it considers this appropriate.
determining the overall size of the annual incentive pool, taking into account all relevant factors, including the profitability of the business, the performance of the Group, the assessment of the Groups financial and non-financial performance against targets and any constraints around total remuneration spend.
These factors include the level of risk taken to achieve performance: approving the design of, determining targets for and monitoring the operation of, the performance related pay schemes operated by the Group and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37 Jupiter Fund Management plc
