Introduction Highlights Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Edward Bonham Carter Chief Executive Chief Executives statement Our approach to developing our business sees us well positioned to deliver growth in the future.
Stock markets endured significant volatility in 2010.
Concerns This outperformance helped drive net inflows of 2.3bn which, over European sovereign debts and GDP growth drove markets together with investment appreciation, lifted our AUM 24 per cent.
down during the first half of the year, while the re-emergence of from 19.5bn at the end of 2009 to 24.1bn at the end of 2010, quantitative easing in the US, combined with robust corporate which compares favourably with the 9 per cent.
rise in the FTSE earnings, boosted sentiment as the end of the year approached.
Such a result is pleasing given the volatile The FTSE 100 Index ended the year at 5,900, some 9 per cent.
market backdrop and lower net retail sales across the industry, amidst above the 2009 close of 5,413. uncertainty over the UK political and tax environment.
Some 1.9bn of these inflows were delivered by our mutual fund operation, with During 2010, we saw a number of changes that have strengthened our UK fund of funds range particularly popular among fund buyers.
Our Listing on the London Stock Exchange in June We also benefited from three product launches during the year, allowed us to restructure our balance sheet, redeem our outstanding an increased contribution from our international flows and positive non-bank debt and pay down some bank debt.
It was also pleasing inflows from our institutional product.
to have developed our investment team with several key hires, enabling us to launch funds in areas we believe will help provide Financial result growth, such as convertible bonds and emerging markets.
Profit before tax for the period was 42.4m, 35.2m ahead of Furthermore, we undertook a rationalisation of our support functions 2009s 7.2m.
Net revenue for the period was 230.5m, 27 per cent.
by outsourcing our unit trust administration to IFDS International ahead of the 182.1m achieved in 2009.
Administrative expenses Financial Data Services who have provided our unit trust of 115.1m were 22.8m higher than 2009 primarily as a result administration systems for many years.
This led us to consolidate of increased variable compensation costs.
our UK office onto one site during the first quarter of 2011.
EBITDA was 124.6m for the year, 37 per cent.
ahead of the Business overview 91.2m we achieved in 2009, reflecting both strong growth in net We believe the key to our continued success lies primarily in the management fees from higher market levels and net inflows.
Our EBITDA margin rose to 54 per cent.
primarily strength of our investment culture.
This has enabled us to attract, nurture and retain talented fund managers for the long term.
Despite as a result of the scalability of our business model: while net revenues increased, fixed costs remained stable.
the competitive nature of the industry, 17 of our 39 fund managers have stayed with the Group for over 10 years.
Dividend Giving these talented individuals freedom to pursue their own The recommended final dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share will result individual investment approaches has, we believe, helped many in a charge of 20.7m in 2011s result.
of them build strong reputations and industry recognition in their respective sectors and enabled us to build our track record of Strategy medium to long-term investment outperformance.
Over the three Our focus remains on providing active management to a broad years to 31 December 2010, 22 of our mutual funds representing range of investors.
We intend to grow by applying our investment skills approximately 66 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM, delivered first and efficiently across a wide range of products and broadening our offering second quartile investment performance, up from 19 mutual funds where we feel we can add value for clients and where there is scope for representing approximately 60 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM at the meaningful inflows.
Ageing populations and the decline in state-funded end of 2009.
We have also seen an encouraging improvement in our and corporate provision of pensions provide an attractive opportunity one year performance record with 55 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM for us and the challenge is to capture the revenue opportunity to the above median at the end of the year under review, an increase from benefit of shareholders via a scalable operating model.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 4 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Chief Executives statement Introduction Outlook asset classes, such as property and cash.
Our fund managers, As the recent turmoil in the Middle East and the devastating with a strong reputation for successful stock picking, have the tragedy in Japan serve to demonstrate, the future is always uncertain.
potential to outperform equity indices, just as many did throughout The impact of these events, which are still unfolding, only compounds the last 10 years, by investing in those companies that will grow the difficulty and danger of forecasting.
Nonetheless, high debt levels our clients assets over the medium-term through varying in the Western world combined with above average unemployment economic conditions.
makes an anaemic economic recovery in mature economies the likely outcome.
Rising resource prices and inflationary pressures in the high growth economies are increasing the probability of stagflationary conditions in the mature countries.
Such issues can cause significant short-term volatility and markets are likely to remain range bound over the medium-term as a result.
Edward Bonham Carter These conditions, which have predominated over the past decade, Chief Executive present investors with challenges and opportunities.
While greater 8 April 2011 volatility is to be expected, equities look more attractive than other Figure 1 Figure 2 Since Listing our share price has performed well against the 3 year mutual fund investment wider market.
56% 100 80 60 23% 25% 40 43% 14% 20 20% 0 9% 1st quartile -20 2nd quartile 30 Jun 31 Jul 31 Aug 30 Sep 31 Oct 30 Nov 31 Dec 3rd quartile 10% 4th quartile Jupiter Fund Management plc share price Source: Financial Express: pie chart in centre: performance weighted by FTSE 100 FTSE 250 number of funds: ring around pie chart: performance weighted by AUM.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Jupiter Fund Management plc % Growth
