chieF execUtiVes reView We hAve DeliveReD AnOtheR GOOD set Of Results Despite cOntinuinG chAllenGinG ecOnOmic cOnDitiOns In North America revenue and operating profit 7% at constant exchange rates.
Return rose by 7% 4% at constant exchange rates on average operating capital continued at and 3% 1% at constant exchange rates a consistently high level of 54.4%, similar respectively due to strong organic revenue to the return in 2009. growth, principally as a result of increased volumes to existing customers, with profit Our operating cash flow continued to be growth held back by some mix driven margin strong.
Despite an acquisition cash outflow pressure.
Although UK & Ireland saw a decline of 111 million and net capital expenditure in revenue of 6% 5% at constant exchange of 22 million, our year end net debt of rates due to the persisting difficult economic 716.8 million was at the same level as the conditions and weakness in some businesses, end of 2009.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio especially Ireland, Vending and Healthcare, improved to 2.1 times compared to 2.2 times operating profit rose 3% as operating margins at the previous year end.
increased significantly due to the positive impact of earlier cost reduction initiatives and During 2010 we continued to focus on the the absence of a negative transaction impact sustainability of our operations to minimise from foreign exchange which adversely our impact on climate change, as well as affected the results in 2009.
In Continental offering environmentally friendly products Europe revenue grew by 3% 7% at constant and consolidated deliveries of consumables exchange rates as a result of the impact from for our customers to reduce their own impact.
michael roney acquisitions made during 2010, while Although we have been measuring the carbon chief executive operating profit decreased 2% up 2% at emissions of our operations for a number of constant exchange rates due to the positive years, reporting our performance through the Operating performance impact from acquisitions being offset by the Carbon Disclosure Project, we have decided Revenue and operating profit before intangible lower contribution from reduced sales volumes this year to add our carbon emissions as a key amortisation and acquisition related costs in France which were partly held back performance indicator.
I am also pleased to each increased 4% to 4,829.6 million and following exceptional sales of products related report that for 2011 we have for the first time 306.7 million respectively.
The overall impact to H1N1 prevention during 2009.
The Rest of set quantitative targets at the Group level to from currency translation was slightly positive the World showed growth of 23% in revenue continue to improve our health, safety and with both growth rates 3% at constant 4% at constant exchange rates and 40% in environmental performance.
Excluding the impact from operating profit 19% at constant exchange acquisitions and the previously announced rates principally due to strong organic growth The business area operations, including sales of products related to H1N1 prevention in Brazil and a significant operating margin the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below in 2009, underlying revenue growth at improvement in Australasia.
at constant exchange rates to remove the constant exchange rates was 2%.
The strong translation impact of foreign currency cash flow of the Group continued as we Basic earnings per share were 49.1p, up 6% movements between 2010 and the previous converted 93% of our operating profit into 4% at constant exchange rates.
Changes in the level of revenue and cash.
In this review all references to operating earnings per share, after eliminating the effect profits at constant exchange rates have been profit are to operating profit before intangible of intangible amortisation and acquisition calculated by retranslating the results for amortisation and acquisition related costs.
related costs, were 60.6p, an increase of 8% 2009 at the average exchange rates for 2010.
06 chief executives review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Acquisitions business in Belgium is focused on the ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH % Acquisition activity picked up significantly Flanders region, Global Net has extended in 2010 after a much quieter year in 2009. our geographic coverage across the whole Increase in revenue for During the year we announced nine of the country.
the year excluding the 0.8 acquisitions and invested 126 million.
impact of currency and In particular, we entered Israel for the first In August we announced two further current year acquisitions time, significantly increased our presence in acquisitions.
Cool-Pak, which had revenue but including a pro rata part Switzerland as we entered three new market of $51 million in 2009, is an exciting year in respect of prior year sectors and made our second step into the development for us as it has increased our acquisitions.
Sales of H1N1 promising Brazilian market.
presence in a specialist area of the food prevention products in 2009 processor market in the US.
The acquisition reduced the underlying organic revenue growth in In January we acquired Clean Care which is of A. M. Supply in Brazil has expanded 1.1 2010 by 1.0% from 1.8%.
principally engaged in the supply of cleaning our existing personal protection equipment 09 10 and hygiene consumable products and business in Brazil and extended our equipment to a variety of end users including product offering into the developing oil contract cleaners and other industrial and and petrochemical sectors there.
Revenue PROFIT MARGIN % institutional customers throughout Denmark.
Revenue in the year ended 30 September Ratio of operating 2009 was DKK60 million.
In February we profit before intangible In October we took a further step to develop 6.4 6.4 amortisation and acquisition expanded further into Denmark with the our successful business in Benelux with the related costs to revenue.
purchase of Hamo, a supplier of catering acquisition of Vant Veer Verpakkingen which disposables and light catering equipment to had revenue of 9 million in 2009.
The a variety of end users in both the public and company is based in the Netherlands and is private sectors.
Revenue in 2009 was DKK43 principally engaged in the sale of cleaning million.
Both these businesses are excellent and hygiene and catering disposable products additions to our existing cleaning and hygiene predominantly to the healthcare sector.
and catering supplies businesses in Denmark and have extended our customer base and Prospects 09 10 product offering there.
Even though the outlook for economic growth remains uncertain, we believe that the During March we significantly increased the PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING opportunities for further development of the size of our operations in Switzerland.
The Group across our international markets are CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS % acquisition of Weita, a business based near promising.
In North America we anticipate Profit margin excluding the Basel with revenue in 2009 of CHF71 million, good underlying revenue growth, albeit lower 6.3 6.3 impact of currency and expanded our business into the cleaning and than the relatively high level of 2010, and current year acquisitions safety, foodservice and healthcare consumables margins should be stable.
In the UK & Ireland, but including a pro rata sectors for the first time and also increased the in spite of the continuing difficult economic part year in respect of prior size of our existing retail supplies business.
conditions, especially in Ireland and in those year acquisitions.
businesses selling to the public sector, we In April we announced our first step into expect an improved performance.
Continental Israel when we purchased Silco, a supplier Europe should see better underlying revenue of foodservice disposables to a number of growth and the full year impact of acquisitions different sectors throughout the country, made in 2010 will enhance the overall results.
09 10 including restaurants, caterers and The Rest of the World should also benefit from redistributors.
Revenue in 2009 was ILS64 good underlying revenue growth and ACQUISITION SPEND m million.
The business has a market leading continued strong performance.
position and a strong customer base and will Consideration paid and 126 provide the opportunity to develop further in Acquisition growth is a key element of our payable, together with net the Israeli market.
strategy and we saw an improved environment debt assumed, in respect of businesses acquired during for acquisitions in 2010.
The pipeline remains the year.
Juba, which we acquired in May and had promising as we continue our discussions with revenue in 2009 of 22 million, is a leading a number of potential targets.
supplier of personal protection equipment, principally protective gloves and other Although there are a number of uncertainties workwear, to redistributors throughout Spain.
in the economies of the markets where we 6 It has expanded our personal protection compete, the Board believes that our market equipment business in Spain and has leading positions and our strong cash flow and 09 10 strengthened our position in this market balance sheet should enable the Group to which we entered in 2008 with the acquisition grow further.
ANNUALISED REVENUE FROM ACQUISITIONS m In July we announced the acquisition of 154 Estimated revenue Global Net based in Belgium with revenue which would have been in 2009 of 20 million.
It is principally contributed by acquisitions engaged in the sale of cleaning and hygiene Michael Roney made during the year if consumables and equipment throughout such acquisitions had been Chief Executive the Walloon region of Belgium to contract completed at the beginning 28 February 2011 cleaners, local authorities and other industrial of the relevant year.
As our existing 27 09 10 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executives review 07 OuR One stOp shOp seRvice tO lARGe GROceRy RetAil custOmeRs helps them simplify the eveRyDAy RunninG Of theiR businesses 08 chief executives review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 everyday essentials: Uniforms Rubber bands paper cups coffee bags labELs NAPKINS Polyethylene bags Bag ties Plastic fruit containers vinyl Gloves Paper bags Deli containers SANDWICH WRAP CLEANING PRODUCTS north america In North America revenue increased by 4% Our non-food retail business continued to at constant exchange rates to 2,621.0 million grow organically by winning a major account primarily due to further sales growth with in Canada and gaining incremental business current accounts but also as a result of some with retailers having existing relationships new business wins.
Mix driven impact, with us.
We also continued to benefit from principally arising from the revenue growth a trend among retailers to utilise our expertise with existing customers, placed pressure on in their sourcing activities.
As such, we were our margins, resulting in a 1% increase in able to promote products and ideas that operating profit to 160.2 million.
helped them meet their specific needs and attain their green initiatives through the supply In our largest business sector, grocery, we of environmentally friendly products.
improved our market leading position by retaining and expanding business with our Our convenience store business experienced current customer base through our primary growth as consumers spending increased as programmes: direct store delivery, cross the year progressed.
Outlets in this sector still dock and warehouse replenishment.
We also face the significant challenges of an uncertain won additional business from our regional economy, increasingly stiff competition from competition as we continued to promote cross channel rivals and rising fuel prices.
our menu of services in the market place.
We continued to take steps to grow our sales in this sector by increasing the breadth Despite market softness and the uncertain of products we offer, including imported economy continuing to exert pressure on product alternatives, and by expanding our the foodservice industry during the year, our customer base.
redistribution business experienced growth as we expanded our relationships with our larger Our strategic sourcing initiatives included customers and positioned ourselves well with expanding our preferred supplier relationships major buying groups.
As an integral part of our into all channels of distribution and one stop shop concept for our customers, our redistribution, utilising our purchasing strength import and private label programmes gained and scale to increase our profitability.
We also momentum as we expanded our product expanded our private label product offering, offering with custom packaging and product incorporating continued product segmentation enhancements.
In addition we invested in and upgrades, to provide our customers with warehouse systems and equipment to improve more choices to meet a wide variety of needs.
our small order quantity pick and pack Additionally, we continued to monitor green operational efficiencies.
issues and have relevant products sourced which meet all environmental needs, including Our food processor business services a those which are biodegradable, recyclable and broad range of customers from fresh cut compostable.
Our new private label line for produce processors, bakeries and specialty environmentally friendly products, Green processors to a variety of protein processors Source, has been very successful.
that supply the grocery and foodservice industries.
We experienced growth in this During the year we reduced our operating sector due to consumers continued demand costs as a percentage of sales despite some for lower cost and take home solutions that operating expense categories, such as are more economical than eating out.
In order healthcare, fuel costs and freight rates, to expand our programmes and sales with increasing.
We continue to offset these our current customers and win new business, escalating costs through increased productivity we have broadened the array of personal and by fine tuning our operational platform protection equipment and maintenance, repair and consolidating stand alone facilities in and operations MRO parts and packaging select markets in order to optimise operating products that we provide our customers costs while maintaining our high level of through our value added outsourcing solutions.
We also extended our presence in the market through our acquisition of Cool-Pak which Although the strength of the economic recovery remains uncertain, our consistent supplies stock and custom designed pulp and plastic containers to fruit and vegetable year on year revenue growth in North America in difficult macroeconomic conditions growers, shippers, repackers and other food suppliers.
Cool-Pak also offers inventory demonstrates the resilience and strength of our value added proposition to our customers.
management, just-in-time delivery, labelling and traceability solutions to its customers.
Our strong financial position, single IT system and extensive coast to coast operating platform In support of our expansion into this sector, we entered into an exclusive agreement with continues to address the needs of our customers and we remain well positioned not only to meet TRUETRAC to distribute LabelTrac, a portable labelling system that takes case level our existing customers demands but also to traceability out to the growers field.
take advantage of new business opportunities that arise within the markets we serve.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executives review 09 We supply eveRyDAy essentiAls tO OuR fOODseRvice custOmeRs tO help theiR businesses Run smOOthly brand programme of catering disposables 2009, has been completely integrated and is and have reduced the operating platform performing well.
Our safety supplies business UK & ireland by two branches.
W. K. Thomas, which we has continued to find the markets it serves in acquired in 2009, has integrated well into our construction, industry and the public sector to After a very challenging year in 2009, our existing business.
In vending, although the be under pressure which has in turn affected UK & Ireland business area has improved business has continued to operate in a very volumes.
We have reacted accordingly by its performance in 2010.
Persisting difficult competitive and demanding environment, further developing our procurement and economic conditions continued to put the implementation of a new IT system has product category management activities pressure on sales, resulting in a 5% decrease been completed and we now have the and consolidating the cost base.
in revenue at constant exchange rates to appropriate tools to optimise operating 1,007.1 million.
However a reduction in efficiencies, giving us the platform to grow The healthcare business has seen a reduction costs has contributed to an improvement in this business going forward.
in volumes with challenging trading conditions operating margin with operating profit up 3% and restrictions on spending imposed by some at constant exchange rates to 59.5 million.
Our food and non-food retail business, whilst customers as their purchasing budgets have operating under continuous competitive been reduced, both affecting demand.
This All businesses have closely scrutinised their pressure, has been resilient.
We have made was exacerbated by the non-repeat of orders resource levels and business processes.
a number of operational improvements, related to the outbreak of the H1N1 virus in This has led to a further reduction in the including streamlining working processes and 2009.
We have reduced the number of number of people employed and the closure completing the installation of a sophisticated operating locations by two and have further of some of our warehouses to optimise the warehouse management system, which have invested in our own brand range of disposable branch network of our various businesses.
allowed us to improve our performance and gloves which should help to regain business our service to our customers.
Assisted by and improve our competitiveness in the We have also analysed the ranges and a number of non-food retail customer wins, coming year.
products that we sell and have rationalised we believe that we are well positioned from a product portfolios to suit the needs of our competitive standpoint and that this business In Ireland the economy has continued to be customers better.
This has resulted in fewer should continue to develop well.
The convenience retail stock keeping units SKUs which has enabled market and hotel sector in particular suffered us to build stronger relations with suppliers, Within cleaning and safety, our business that downturns and, even though we have improve product availability and also further supplies cleaning and hygiene products had maintained gross margins, it was necessary to develop our own brands and importing activity a good year against the backdrop of a difficult implement further reductions in our cost base from Asia.
Six of the branches have been to realign the business with the reduced levels consolidated into four facilities and the of activity.
Within the hospitality sector, the market for reduced operating platform and cost base catering disposables has continued to be have helped us to continue to be competitive very competitive whilst the demand for more and secure ongoing business with a number durable catering equipment has been relatively of our key facilities management customers.
We are actively developing our own Industrial Supplies, the acquisition we made in 10 chief executives review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Sodexos everyday essentials: Coffee cups Sugar sachets Paper plates Sterilising handwash Napkins Bag ties Paper bags Aluminum foil Cutlery Gloves Mops & buckets Jugs Food trays Floor signs Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executives review 11 continental eUrope Revenue rose 7% at constant exchange rates In Switzerland, we acquired in March the to 936.4 million and operating profit rose 2% Weita business which operates in the cleaning to 79.9 million.
The impact of the absence of and safety, foodservice, retail and healthcare the significant sales of H1N1 prevention consumables sectors.
It is integrating well into products made in 2009 and gross margin the Group and has delivered profits ahead of pressure as customers continued to focus on our initial expectations.
cost reductions was offset by continued tight cost control, increased levels of imports and In Denmark, sales were ahead in our retail the benefit of acquisitions and the resulting business and its operating margin improved synergies achieved during the year.
Our horeca business also delivered good sales growth and In France, our cleaning and hygiene business increased its operating margin principally due had a challenging year.
The economic to the full year benefit of its new, more efficient NH Hoteles environment continued to be difficult with warehouse.
Hamo, a supplier of catering the public sector in particular cutting back disposables and light catering equipment everyday essentials: spending.
Together with the lack of sales of which was acquired in February 2010, has Guest amenities H1N1 prevention products during 2010, this been fully integrated resulting in significant Slippers resulted in lower sales although the gross savings.
Clean Care, a distributor of cleaning Take away lunch boxes margin percentage was stable.
Costs were and hygiene consumables and equipment Napkins reduced during the year but the positive acquired in January 2010, continues to impact of these reductions will only be felt fully operate from its own warehouse and is also Drink stirrers in the current year.
The new ERP system is delivering significant commercial synergies Bin liners now fully implemented and will provide further with our existing business.
Toilet rolls operational efficiencies in the future.
Our Tea bags and coffee personal protection equipment business In Spain, our cleaning and hygiene business Teaspoons had a successful year with higher sales saw a slight decline in sales in a continuing Washing detergent and profits.
Gross margins improved Pens and operating costs were reduced, resulting In the Netherlands, sales, grew significantly in good growth in operating profit.
Our Sponges in our business supplying the food and safety business delivered strong sales and Washing up brushes non-food retail sectors following customer wins profit growth despite ongoing weakness in Laundry bags and the business servicing the horeca hotel, the construction and industrial sectors which Bedside books restaurant and catering sector returned to it serves.
The acquisition in May of Juba, Coasters growth after a difficult year in 2009.
However, a specialist in protective gloves, has our healthcare business continued to face complemented our existing business and pressure from spending cuts imposed by is providing opportunities both in terms of our customers.
Overall gross margins and increased sales and improved purchasing.
costs in the Netherlands continued to be tightly managed such that the operating In central Europe, a return to stronger sales margin improved.
In October we acquired growth and further cost reductions led to a Vant Veer Verpakkingen which operates in the significant increase in profit in our cleaning cleaning and hygiene and catering disposable and hygiene business.
The business is trading in line with however, in the retail business but profit was expectations and delivering the anticipated slightly ahead as a result of the positive impact synergy benefits.
In Belgium, sales grew as progress in the retail In Israel we acquired the foodservice business offset continuing weakness in the disposables business, Silco, in April as a first business supplying the cleaning and hygiene step into this new market which has exciting sector.
Gross margins were under pressure but development prospects.
It is integrating well costs continued to be tightly controlled.
we acquired Global Net which sells cleaning and hygiene consumables and equipment throughout the Walloon region of Belgium.
The acquisition is delivering significant synergies with our existing operations.
In Germany, sales grew strongly in the horeca sector and revenues from guest amenities rose again as the hotel sector recovered.
Continued tight cost control could not however fully offset the impact of gross margin pressure.
12 chief executives review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 by pROviDinG A WiDe RAnGe Of pRODucts fOR hOtels, incluDinG cleAninG pRODucts AnD bespOKe Guest Amenities, We cAn ensuRe they hAve eveRythinG they neeD Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executives review 13 OuR RAnGe Of peRsOnAl pROtectiOn equipment helps OuR custOmeRs mAintAin hiGh stAnDARDs Of heAlth & sAfety EVERYDAY ESSENTIALS: STEEL TOECAP BOOTS LIFE JACKETS SAFETY GLASSES HARD HATS PROTECTIVE GLOVES EAR PLUGS HARNESSES FACE MASKS EAR PROTECTORS SHIRTS AND TROUSERS 14 chief executives review Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 rest of the world In the Rest of the World revenue increased us to benefit from operational improvements In Brazil we saw strong growth in both revenue by 4% at constant exchange rates to 265.1 in freight and inventory management systems and operating profit as the economy there million.
Strong underlying growth in Brazil and as well as facilitate electronic ordering for rebounded from a relatively weak 2009. a substantial improvement in operating margins customers and suppliers.
We expanded further into the markets we serve in Australasia resulted in a 19% improvement as the new branches opened during the last in operating profit to 23.8 million.
two years experienced profitable growth.
In Our catering equipment business continued to be affected by the downturn in the hospitality August we acquired A. M. Supply which is In Australasia our largest business, based in the northern part of the state of Rio and catering sectors, in particular in New Outsourcing Services, performed strongly, South Wales and North Queensland.
The fide Janeiro and will enable us to benefit from the ongoing significant investments being benefiting from some solid second half sales business benefited from some new business gains and good gross margin improvements.
wins during the year and ongoing operational made in offshore oil and gas exploration and the petrochemical sector.
We continue to develop a strong position in and service improvements implemented in our key markets, such as healthcare, contract 2009.
This, combined with lower operating catering and cleaning.
In addition we are costs, enabled us to deliver results which developing the business in New Zealand by were again well up on last years improved building momentum with regional customers performance.
Our goal is to expand our branch there.
As a result of our continued investment coverage in this sector to capitalise on national in systems, some 45% of all orders in this customers in this market sector.
business are now dealt with electronically.
Operationally the business in Australasia has Our food processor business had another strengthened its position in the region by challenging year, feeling the effects of investing in establishing a consolidation slowdowns in some of our major customers warehouse in China.
This will fast track future whose own export business contracted due sourcing initiatives while reducing the costs to the stronger Australian dollar, although sales associated with double handling on freight began to recover as the year progressed.
The transfers for all business units in the region.
recently completed implementation of the main IT system throughout the business will enable Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executives review 15
