CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS LETTER driver of Group performance.
Management believed compromising on investment in Burberrys consumerfacing elements would restrict both current and future performance.
In line with this, we undertook several key initiatives in the year: Burberry continued to build sector-leading digital marketing expertise, enhancing the Groups ability to develop compelling content and distribute it effectively.
A highlight in the year was the launch of artofthetrench.
com, a social media website which introduces the iconic trench coat to the digital generation and is attracting a new, younger customer to the brand.
We marked the 25th anniversary of London Fashion Week, by relocating the womens Spring 2010 runway show to London from Milan in September.
This geographical reconnection of Burberry with its British heritage brought extensive press and editorial coverage.
Burberrys reputation as a digital leader was further enhanced with the Autumn 2010 show, which, in addition to live streaming over the internet, was broadcast in 3D in five cities around the globe and allowed consumers to purchase runway items directly for expedited delivery both rsts in the luxury sector.
The relabelling of the casual component of the womens and mens apparel lines as Burberry Brit brought greater clarity to the brands segmentation.
This separation from the more sartorial Burberry London portion of the lines allows the businesses to offer more complete assortments in each of these segments and target distribution more effectively.
In a highly uncertain consumer spending environment, management and the Board began the financial year Burberry stores are among the best vehicles planning to stay the strategic course.
At the highest level, to communicate the full brand message to the Groups primary objectives are the continued elevation consumers.
Management selectively added stores and building of the Burberry brand, and ensuring the in high-potential urban markets and upgraded Company remains rmly on a path of sustained, profitable important stores in prominent locations, as well growth over the long term.
During the two and a half years as opening the first standalone test stores for the prior to the financial crisis, Burberrys strategies had proven Burberry Brit and London lines.
In the ongoing effective at delivering on these objectives.
As we moved effort to improve the customer experience, the into 2009 10, our analysis indicated that the fundamentals Group extended the roll-out of the Burberry which had driven expansion of the luxury sector historically Experience, a comprehensive sales and service were likely to remain relevant.
We also believed that programme, to all stores worldwide.
Burberry was relatively well positioned for progress under As part of the ongoing strengthening of the most economic recovery scenarios.
In this context, important wholesale operations, we opened new we elected to stay the course.
headquarters with state-of-the-art showrooms At the same time, management tailored execution in in New York City and Tokyo.
keeping with existing market conditions.
This is captured Emphasising profitability over revenue growth.
by the following three themes: Historically, Burberry has pursued strong revenue Maintaining investment in consumer-facing elements.
In 2009 10, the Through investment prior to the crisis, the brand had dramatically slowed consumer environment pressured achieved strong momentum, which had been a clear both gross margin and expense structure with a 10 leveraged adverse effect on income.
Moderating its The challenging consumer conditions in Japan growth orientation in the near term, management entered afforded the Group the opportunity to amend its the year emphasising profitability over revenue growth.
largest licence agreement in this market.
With the amendment, Burberry has greatly enhanced its To maximise gross margin, merchant teams long-term strategic options in Japan.
continued to reduce assortment sizes across categories.
This resulted in more focused Through these efforts and execution of Burberrys remaining collections leading to enhanced sourcing core strategies, the team achieved strong financial results.
efficiencies, more consistent in-store presentation Total revenue grew 7% to 1.3bn.
Retail performed well, and improved sell-through rates.
The teams also increasing revenue 19% on a 7% comparable store sales revised mark-down policies to capitalise on gain.
Driven by Spain, wholesale declined 11%.
Licensing the less seasonal elements of the collections.
increased 18% with a decline in Japan offset by growth in Retail wholesale gross margin increased from global product licences and favourable exchange rate 52.1% in 2008 09 to 59.7% in 2009 10. movements.
Adjusted operating profit reached a record 220m, on a 25% retail wholesale increase.
The Group Management successfully executed the 50m generated 254m of cash, resulting in a 262m year end cost efficiency programme announced in 2008 09. cash balance.
Approximately half of the gains were driven by supply chain and corporate process efficiencies With the changed operating environment, management with cost reductions accounting for the remainder.
also conducted a full review of Burberrys strategic plan during the year.
We continue to see opportunities across Leveraging the investment in systems and planning the product portfolio whether the heritage menswear expertise, the Group improved inventory business, the young childrenswear division, or quickly management in the year.
Inventory levels were developing shoe category.
While emerging markets such reduced 36% year over year.
as China offer great excitement, excellent potential remains The Group also undertook the restructuring of in all geographic regions.
Penetration of these markets will the business in Spain against a backdrop of be enabled by retail enhancements, new store formats and deteriorating performance and the poor state of wholesale advances.
Ongoing efficiency improvements are Spains economy.
While difficult, the closing of that also expected to contribute to profit growth.
operation in favour of integrating this market with In renewing our plan to be a great brand, we also updated the global Burberry business is in the long-term our aspirations to be a great company.
Internally, we best interests of the brand.
continue work to establish Burberry as the leading Prepared to respond to a changing environment.
employer in the luxury sector.
During the year, we formed Recognising that the trading environment was likely the Leadership Council, a forum to develop the next to be volatile, management monitored conditions generation of Burberrys leadership.
We also reinforced carefully to respond quickly to new opportunities mechanisms to enhance communication and celebrate our and emerging risks.
Externally, the Burberry Foundation continued its work to empower the creativity of young Although starting the year with a conservative people, while our commitments to ethical trading and inventory plan, we prepared to respond to changes preserving the environment continued to progress.
As the tone of business improved, management capitalised on supply chain Looking forward, Burberry is well prepared to achieve its investment and restructuring during the past three goals in the years ahead.
With a strong balance of analytics years to speed deliveries of future season product.
and intuition, senior management has added expertise and In addition, the April Showers capsule collection grown as an integrated team during the past three years.
was designed and delivered to stores through an Our teams globally are fully united under our brand.
And expedited 12-week cycle this was similarly we thank the extended team suppliers, large customers, enabled by supply chain and systems investments licensing and franchise partners for their continued over the past several years.
Together we look forward to reasserting Burberrys growth agenda while continuing to invest in the future of With an improving pace of business, the team the brand.
used the Groups strong financial position to complete additional attractive real estate transactions, against a conservative plan.
In total, Burberry added net 21 Angela Ahrendts stores with 9% space expansion.
