8 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 OuR gROuP gROuP ChiEF ExECutiVES REViEW We are successfully executing our DEliVERing On strategy of growing the business, controlling operational costs and deploying our capital more effectively.
Our results for 2010 demonstrate that we are able to deliver both improvements in cash generation and growth in sales.
The Group achieved 728m of net cash generation in 2010, above that delivered in 2009 699m and well ahead of the target set for the year.
Meanwhile, worldwide sales of 1.8bn exceeded the figure achieved last year by 28%.
In Risk, we broadened our reach with several new or extended distribution partnerships for our protection and annuity products.
We have also increased levels of direct sales and seen an increase Our results for 2010 demonstrate that in our market share of intermediated we are successfully delivering both mortgage distribution.
Our expertise in pricing and underwriting has improvements to cash generation enabled further growth in the scale and growth in sales.
and profitability of this business.
We have built a modern Savings business with a lower structural cost base.
Increasing numbers of customers are placing their savings with Legal & General for increasing periods of time.
As assets under administration grow, the business is also driving margin improvements.
indd 8 25 03 2011 11:07 OuR gROuP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 9 my ROlE aS ChaiRman OF thE aSSOCiatiOn OF BRitiSh inSuRERS aBi Legal & General Investment Management LGIM has grown to be amongst the top 30 fund management In July 2010 I was asked to become ABI Chairman, having been a member of groups in the world measured by the Board since July 2007.
Insurance is already at the heart of a successful and assets under management.
well-functioning society but there is much more our sector can do to assist individuals, families and businesses and to support the economic recovery.
LGIMs strategy is to build on its position as the largest manager During my term of office I aim to work with the ABI Board to ensure effective of assets for UK pension funds and workable regulation in the UK and Europe: to increase the trust of consumers and grow its low cost, high service, in our industry and ensure wide availability of reliable products that meet low investment risk model into the real needs of customers at a price they can afford: to protect and promote other markets with successes the competitiveness of the UK insurance industry and prove that the industry already in the US, the Middle East can develop workable and publicly desirable outcomes to build a stronger, and mainland Europe.
Our International businesses delivered more cash to the Group through increased dividends, and generated of 0.7bn coupled with taking gender into account when we made changes in the US to deploy the IGD benefit of the US capital assessing risk will be unlawful with capital more effectively through the management programme which effect from 21 December 2012. execution of the first phase of our amounted to 0.1bn.
The IGD coverage ratio stood at 226% We disagree with this ruling.
Our joint venture in India is at the end of 2010 2009: 224%.
We believe gender is an important progressing well.
factor in underwriting and in ensuring REgulatORy ChangES our products deliver the correct, Our diversified distribution platform By the end of next year, UK insurers risk-based pricing.
However, we continues to thrive.
Only 39% of UK will need to be ready for a new will do all we can to minimise the new business was written through European capital regime under impact of this ruling on our business, retail Independent Financial Advisers Solvency II.
This will deliver a and our customers.
IFAs and within that segment we are dramatically altered regulatory capital increasing our focus on IFAs who approach in the UK and Europe.
The OutlOOK have evolved their model to maximise late delivery of the new regulations, As a market leading manufacturer the opportunities offered by the FSA and the lack of clarity surrounding of risk, savings, and investment Retail Distribution Review RDR.
them, will present the UK insurance management products we see strong industry with considerable challenges growth opportunities for the Group Bancassurance partners delivered and we remain closely engaged with in 2011 and beyond.
24% of new business in the UK where this process.
we continue to build relationships In the UK, a combination of state across the banking sector.
Fee-based The introduction of automatic retrenchment, an ageing population, employee benefit consultants enrolment into pension schemes increased household saving and provided 32% of new business in the and the removal of the compulsion continued fide-risking activity by period and tied and direct distribution for individuals to annuitise at age 75 pension trustees will drive growth accounted for 5% of sales.
Our will significantly change the pensions across protection, annuities, distribution model remains well landscape in the UK.
Overseas, diversified and is a source of strength we see opportunities to export and differentiation for the Group.
Additionally, the radical reform to our bancassurance based savings the way people buy financial advice model into other emerging markets.
BalanCE ShEEt anD CaPital following the RDR will go live in the The Group continues to benefit from UK in 2012.
Customers should benefit a robust balance sheet.
The estimated from improved transparency on Insurance Groups Directive IGD charges and increased adviser capital surplus increased to 3.7bn professionalism.
from 3.1bn after accrual of 201m for the 2010 final dividend.
This increase The Court of Justice of the European tim BREEDOn was primarily due to net cash Union has reached a decision that gROuP ChiEF ExECutiVE L&G AR10 01 p1-9 230311 AT.
