8 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We achieved a step change in our financial performance despite slow economic growth, returning the Group to profitability while absorbing the substantial costs of reducing risk in the business.
Summary Results overview Good franchise momentum in 2010 2010 was a good year for the Group, On a combined businesses basis, the We have seen good momentum across our in which we made significant progress, Group reported a 2.2 billion profit in 2010, core business franchise in 2010, supported delivering a strong operating performance, compared to a 6.3 billion loss before by the extension of our relationship strategy while strengthening the business tax in 2009.
Underlying income grew by across the Group, in what remain highly for the future.
3 per cent to 23.6 billion, reflecting good competitive markets.
underlying income growth of 7 per cent We achieved a step change in our financial In Retail, our strategy is to develop deep in our core business, partially offset by a performance despite modest economic and enduring customer relationships reduction of 9 per cent in our non-core growth, returning the Group to profitability through offering a broad range of products business as a result of planned asset while absorbing the substantial costs of addressing customers needs, alongside reductions.
Operating expenses fell by reducing risk in the business.
While the superior service and advice.
We opened 6 per cent, resulting in an improvement significant decrease in impairments was a 1.9 million current accounts, and over in our underlying cost:income ratio of key driver in our return to profitability, we 5 million new savings accounts, and 4.5 percentage points to 46.2 per cent.
also saw a good performance in the core increased customer deposits by 5 per cent business where underlying income grew On a statutory basis, the Group delivered in the year.
a profit before tax of 0.3 billion in 2010.
In Wholesale, our commitment to This compared to a profit of 1 billion in We delivered good momentum across our supporting our customers through the 2009, which benefited from an 11.2 billion core businesses through the continued cycle was equally successful, and we negative goodwill gain associated with the development of our customer relationship attracted over 100,000 new start-up purchase of HBOS.
strategy, attracting new customers to the customers and our achievements were Group and broadening and deepening our recognised in the marketplace by the A significant reduction in the relationships with existing customers.
receipt of a number of awards.
impairment charge We also realised substantial cost savings, We see strong growth opportunities in We achieved a significant reduction in the and we are on track to deliver our target of Wealth, through deepening relationships impairment charge, which fell 45 per cent, 2 billion of run-rate cost synergies from the with existing Group customers and through with the deterioration in some of our integration of HBOS by the end of 2011. the targeted acquisition of new customers.
International businesses more than offset by In 2010, we saw encouraging early results We made considerable progress during a substantial improvement in the rest of the from the development of our customer the year in reducing the Groups risk.
The Group, notably in the Wholesale division.
offerings, and we grew our UK relationship application of our prudent approach to The considerable reductions in the Retail customer base by 12 per cent.
restructuring of the existing book and and Wholesale impairment charges reflect our risk standards to all new business is In Insurance our focus on sustainable and the benefit of the actions we have taken being reflected in the more predictable profitable growth led to a 13 per cent over the past two years and our ongoing performance of these portfolios.
We also increase in profit before tax.
While this effective risk management, as well as the made good progress in reducing the size strategy led to a reduction in overall sales slowly improving economic environment.
of our balance sheet and substantially volumes in our UK Life, Pensions and While we were disappointed by the strengthened both our capital and Investments business, as we stopped selling increases in the International portfolios, funding positions.
a number of low return heritage HBOS these reflect specific economic challenges products, this resulted in a substantial As a result of the significant progress we facing Ireland, and to some degree increase in new business margin.
have made in 2010, Lloyds Banking Group Australia, which we are managing closely.
is now a much stronger business and is well positioned to realise the potential within its franchise.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 9 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Supporting the UKs economic recovery Further progress in balance sheet Our core tier 1 ratio increased to reductions 10.2 per cent, from 8.1 per cent at the end During 2010 the Group continued to of 2009, substantially in excess of regulatory support the UKs economic recovery through We are pleased with the progress we have requirements.
We also restructured the new lending to our mortgage and business made in reducing the size of the Groups capital within our insurance subsidiaries, customers.
The Group extended 30 billion balance sheet, with over half of our five year which will deliver substantial benefits under of gross mortgage lending including reduction plan achieved in the first two years.
At the year end, our remortgages to UK homeowners and Although this has had an adverse effect on tier 1 ratio was 11.6 per cent, and our total supported over 50,000 first time buyers.
income, it has resulted in a material reduction capital ratio was 15.2 per cent.
in the Groups risk profile, and a smaller We also provided 49 billion of committed balance sheet which brings associated gross lending to UK businesses in 2010, of Regulatory environment funding benefits.
which 11 billion was for SMEs.
As part of our We operate in a demanding and evolving SME Charter, the Group has committed to We have now achieved asset reductions regulatory environment, and have continued helping 300,000 new start-up businesses by the totalling 105 billion in the two years since to engage actively with our regulators end of 2012, and has already helped in excess the inception of the programme, against during the year on a number of proposed of 100,000 such enterprises during 2010.
We our target of a 200 billion reduction.
reforms, ensuring we have a strong and continue to approve over 80 per cent of lending stable banking system, which will also be applications from SME customers.
Despite Excellent progress on funding and able to support and serve its customers and the uncertain economic environment, the liquidity the wider economy.
Group has successfully grown net lending to We made excellent progress in enhancing its core SME customers by 2.1 per cent, which Following extensive scrutiny of the Payment our funding and liquidity position in 2010, compares favourably with the industry-wide Protection Insurance PPI market in recent thereby further reducing the Groups risk, reduction in SME lending reported in the years, the Financial Services Authority issued albeit at some incremental cost.
its final policy statement on PPI complaints We increased our deposit base by handling in August 2010.
The application of As a result of our focus, we will exceed the 3 per cent, which, together with the this policy, which has been challenged by mortgage and business lending commitments reduction in the size of our balance sheet, the British Bankers Association in a judicial made by the Group to the UK government resulted in an improvement in our loan to review, could in extremis have a material for the year ended 28 February 2011. deposit ratio to 154 per cent at the end of effect on the Groups financial position.
We have recently announced, along 2010 from 169 per cent at the 2009 year end.
with four other major UK banks and in Our people In addition, we substantially exceeded the context of an agreement with the our guidance for term wholesale funding I am proud of the high levels of support and UK Government, our intent to help support issuance, achieving 50 billion of issuance service our staff have continued to deliver the UK economic recovery by jointly in the year.
We also continued to broaden to our customers over the past year, in what providing the capacity to support gross the range of our funding sources, and remains a challenging environment, and in new lending of 190 billion to creditworthy maintained the proportion of our wholesale the context of the considerable changes to UK businesses including 76 billion to funding with a maturity of more than one the Group arising from the integration.
Their small and medium sized businesses.
dedication is reflected in our significant We are determined to play a full role in achievements in 2010, and the Board and supporting investment by UK businesses Term issuance during the year enabled us I are very appreciative of their contribution.
to materially reduce the liquidity we receive from government and central bank sources, Well positioned for future success Integration programme on track by 61 billion to 97 billion at the year end and we have made further progress It has been a tremendous honour and a We continued to make good progress on the since then.
privilege to lead our many talented and integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS, one of dedicated people over the last eight years, the largest and most complex programmes Capital position further strengthened and I would like to thank my colleagues undertaken in the UK, exiting the year with and the Board for their support over this run-rate cost synergies of 1.4 billion, as We considerably strengthened our capital time.
I am grateful to have been given the expected.
We achieved savings across a position in the year, positioning us well opportunity to create the new Group.
The wide range of Group activities, including ahead of the implementation of the Basel significant progress we have made in 2010 implementing improved processes which are Committee on Banking Supervisions so positions the Group well for the future to now being used on a harmonised basis across called Basel III capital reforms, and meet our objective of becoming the best the Group, and driving savings in property and changes expected to a number of bank for all our stakeholders, including our procurement.
As part of the integration, we accounting practices.
have also commenced the implementation of a number of major systems changes, which will complete in 2011.
J Eric Daniels Group Chief Executive Our progress in 2010 underpins our confidence that we will deliver our target of 2 billion of annual run-rate cost synergies by the end of 2011.
10 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES The Governments shareholding As a result of the recapitalisation of the However, within the publication An Introduction: The Government has made it very clear that banking sector which included the capital Who We Are, What We Do and the Framework UK financial institutions in which it holds raisings, the Government now holds a Document Which Governs the Relationship substantial stakes will continue to operate as significant stake in Lloyds Banking Group.
Between UKFI and HM Treasury, it is stated that separate economic units with independent As at the date these accounts were UKFI is to develop and execute an investment powers of decision and will continue to approved the Governments shareholding strategy for disposing of the investments in the have their own independent Boards and in Lloyds Banking Group was approximately banks in an orderly and active way through sale, management teams, determining their own 40.6 per cent.
This holding is managed redemption, buy-back or other means within strategies and commercial policies including by United Kingdom Financial Investments the context of an overarching objective of business plans and budgets.
UKFI on behalf of HM Treasury.
protecting and creating value for the taxpayer as shareholder, paying due regard to the The future Information on key areas such as when maintenance of financial stability and to acting the Government may reduce their Going forward the Group is focused on in a way that promotes competition.
holding, how the relationship with UKFI delivering strategy and subsequently value operates and the impact of the holding to all our shareholders.
The Government Working relationship with UKFI on our strategy is outlined below.
holding does not affect this management We have a very good working relationship focus and we remain committed to operating Share disposal with UKFI who act like any value orientated as a wholly privately owned, self supporting, shareholder with regard to the strategic dividend paying, commercial enterprise The timing of any share disposal will be at the development and financial performance of over time.
Governments discretion, acting on the advice the Group, providing significant constructive of UKFI.
challenge where they see fit.
State aid Lending to aid the economic recovery The European Commission required the An asset reduction programme to achieve During 2010 the Group continued its Group to agree a restructuring plan as a 181 billion reduction in a specified pool policy of actively supporting the UKs a result of the investment in the Group of end 2008 assets by 31 December 2014: economic recovery through gross by HM Treasury.
The final approval and new lending to our mortgage and of the UK Governments state aid business customers.
Behavioural commitments, including measures, including the terms of the final commitments: not to make certain During the year, the Group extended restructuring plan, was agreed by the acquisitions for approximately three to 30 billion of gross mortgage lending College of Commissioners in November four years: and not to make discretionary including remortgages to UK homeowners 2009.
The plan consists of the following payments of coupons or to exercise including 5 billion in new lending to firstprincipal elements: voluntary call options on hybrid securities time buyers and 49 billion of committed from 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012, The disposal of a retail banking business gross lending to UK businesses of which which will also prevent the Group from with at least 600 branches, a 4.6 per cent 11 billion was for SMEs.
As part of our paying dividends on its ordinary shares for share of the personal current accounts SME Charter, the Group has committed to the same duration.
market in the UK and approximately helping 300,000 start-ups by 2012, and has 19 per cent of the Groups mortgage already helped in excess of 100,000 new start We are making good progress against assets.
The business consists of: the TSB up businesses during 2010.
We continue the agreed asset reduction programme brand: the branches, savings accounts and to approve over 80 per cent of lending and continue to make good progress in branch based mortgages of Cheltenham & applications from SME customers.
preparing for the disposal of the agreed retail Gloucester: the branches and branch banking business.
The final cost of disposal As a result of our focus, these actions have based customers of Lloyds TSB Scotland will depend on the buyer and the extent to allowed us to remain ahead of the mortgage and a related banking licence: additional which substantial IT system and infrastructure and business lending commitments made by Lloyds TSB branches in England and development will be necessary.
Therefore the Group to the Government for the year Wales, with branch based customers: and, the total cost is hard to predict but is likely to ended 28 February 2011.
These disposals need be substantial.
to be made within four years of the date of The assets and liabilities, and associated State Aid approval, so by November 2013. income and expenses, of the business to be divested referred to above cannot be determined with precision until nearer the date of sale.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 11 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 ADDRESSING THE KEY ISSUES Group integration Independent Commission on Banking As previously outlined within the The Independent Commission on The Commission will also have regard to Strategy and Progress section pages Banking ICB was established by the the Governments wider goals of financial 4 and 5 the integration of the HBOS Government in June 2010 to examine stability and creating an efficient, open, business is a key deliverable for the Group.
the banking sector and to make robust and diverse banking sector, with recommendations on structural and specific attention paid to the potential We have now completed the second related non-structural measures to impact of its recommendations on: year of our three year integration promote stability and competition in programme and remain on target Financial stability: the banking sector.
to deliver annualised cost savings Lending to UK consumers and businesses from synergies and other operating The Commission will make recommendations and the pace of economic recovery: efficiencies of 2 billion by the end covering both: of 2011.
Substantial wide-ranging Consumer choice: Structural measures to reform the progress has been made during 2010, banking system and promote stability and The competitiveness of the UK financial including: competition, including the complex issue and professional services sectors and the Rollout of the Lloyds TSB branch counter of separating retail and investment banking wider UK economy: and system and processes to the Halifax and functions: and Risks to the fiscal position of the Government Bank of Scotland branches completes Related non-structural measures to March 2011.
The Commission will produce a final report promote stability and competition in for the Cabinet Committee on Banking, Migration of 3,700 Halifax and banking for the benefit of consumers by the end of September 2011, having Bank of Scotland ATMs to the Lloyds TSB and businesses.
completed its evidence gathering phase platform completes April 2011.
In considering these measures the at the end of January 2011.
The written Implementation of a single mortgage sales Commission will have regard to the legal and responses which the ICB have received at this platform across core mortgage brands operational requirements of implementing stage have been published on its website.
the options under consideration, and The Groups response can also be found on the importance of generating practical our website, www.
Development and implementation of a recommendations.
It will also take into account fully scaled single IT platform which will We believe the Groups through the cycle the findings of ongoing EU and international support the Group.
relationship based strategy is consistent with work, and inform the UK Governments the aims of the Commission but at this time Single bancassurance sales system approach to international discussions on it is not possible to gauge the impact of the and unified set of products delivered.
We have cooperated Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB fully with the ICB to date and are expecting wealth management functions their options paper, which will set out their brought together to form one initial thoughts on potential reform, during wealth management team.
Following its publication, there will be a further period of consultation during Contract Hire fleet businesses are being which the Group will continue to be at the brought together onto a single platform.
forefront of the debate with the ICB.
Following a review of the business, we completed our strategic exit from Ireland by the end of 2010, including the closure of 44 Bank of Scotland Ireland branches.
Completion of the legal transfer of our businesses in Spain to form one Dividend payments to shareholders integrated business serving both local and international communities.
The recent financial position of the Group along with the behavioural commitments Wholesale Markets Corporate business we entered into as part of the State Aid Restructuring Plan have prevented us paying now trading under the Lloyds Bank brand.
dividends on our ordinary shares.
Procurement benefits of 236 million We fully understand the hardship that the lack of dividend has caused many of our shareholders, achieved in year.
Over 90 per cent of and we are working diligently to restore the ability to pay dividends and create shareholder value.
Group expenditure consolidated within our top 1,000 suppliers.
The Board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares as soon as market conditions and the financial performance of the Group permit, subject to the expiry, in 2012, 79 non-branch properties exited, of the restrictions on paying dividends arising from the European Commissions remedies.
bringing the total to 162 since the start of the programme.
