Introduction Chief Executives review London Stock Exchange Group is a great company at an exciting time both in its history and for the future of the industry we serve.
This belief is as strong now as it was on my joining the company last year.
The past months have been replete with challenges, which we are addressing, and opportunities, which we are seizing.
Introduction Our financial performance provides an insight into the challenges we are facing, though it also reflects some of the investments and other costs associated with improving our long term prospects.
Against a difficult operating environment for exchange businesses in the past twelve months, we have delivered a resilient performance.
Despite a weak IPO market, lower equity market valuations, subdued investor trading in the secondary markets, robust competition for trading and a contraction in financial market professionals who consume our real time and reference data, we achieved revenue of 605.6 million, only six per cent less than last year.
Adjusted operating profit before Notwithstanding the strength of our acquisition impairment and amortisation, and exceptional items, was 280.3 million reflecting tight control of our costs but also brand and the quality of our assets, certain one-off costs for the replacement of TradElect by we are operating in a fast changing and MillenniumIT technology.
challenging environment, characterised by robust competition and a number Backdrop and Observations The Group has a range of assets that set us apart from our of potential regulatory changes.
Foremost is our international brand.
This is reflected in the people who work for the Company and those who do business with us: more international companies from more countries join our markets than any other exchange: we are privileged to provide trading services to a very wide range of brokers and intermediaries across Europe: and our real time information is distributed globally.
Through the merger with Borsa Italiana, completed in 2007, we have a good product portfolio beyond equities, encompassing derivatives and fixed income trading together with post trade services.
The merger has also demonstrated our success in integrating businesses while, critically, preserving market identities.
Notwithstanding the strength of our brand and the quality of our assets, we are operating in a fast changing and challenging environment, characterised by robust competition and a number of potential regulatory changes.
It is essential, therefore, that we have a clear, executable strategy that will enable us to thrive in the evolving markets in which we operate.
10 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Strategy At the heart of our strategy is a fundamental corporate philosophy: to be a truly client-centred business.
However, the breadth, diversity and changing composition of our client base creates certain challenges.
The onus is on us to prove to our clients the fundamental value of an exchange as an independent, neutral, efficient and profitable provider of core capital markets infrastructure.
By getting this right shareholders will also benefit as we successfully grow the business.
Within this context our strategy can be characterised as getting in shape, leveraging our assets and developing the opportunities for other forms of growth from joint ventures, partnerships and acquisitions.
The strategic imperatives comprise the following elements: Left Antoine shagoury, chief information Officer on his appointment Drive efficiency in february 2010.
Build scale below xavier rolet visiting epistem Increase scope in Manchester, June last year.
Extend reach Second from bottom Tony weeresinghe, ceO of MillenniumiT and its campus in Over the course of the year, we have developed the top team to sri lanka.
As well as harnessing the existing talent bottom politicians and market among senior managers within the Group, the management team participants at the launch of our new retail bond market in february.
has been augmented by select external appointments such as Kevin Milne, who now heads up our Post Trade division, and Antoine Shagoury, who has joined us as Chief Information Officer and through acquisition, in the case of Tony Weeresinghe who is responsible for our global development, overseeing our commercial and business relationships with other exchanges, as well as continuing as CEO of MillenniumIT.
Drive Efficiency Identifying and establishing further efficiencies throughout the Group has been a priority over the past year.
Faced with a drop in value traded on our markets, through a combination of lower asset prices, lower capital commitment by banks and increased competition, we have taken a number of actions to reduce our cost base, encompassing our three largest areas of cost: people, technology and property.
Early last summer we made a number of management changes to streamline and accelerate decision taking.
In the process, we took some difficult decisions with respect to a number of roles across the Group, reducing the workforce at that time by 12 per cent and generating 11 million of annualised cost benefit.
The positive way in which staff members have responded to these changes is testament to the quality of the people working here.
A smaller workforce in London has enabled us to improve our position on property costs through the release and subletting of another floor in our Paternoster Square headquarters, providing a net benefit of 3 million per annum from 2010 11.
Meanwhile in Milan, we are managing the future cost increase of our lease on Palazzo Mezzanotte, our Italian HQ, by upgrading the building, which will enable us to consolidate all our Milan-based staff there over the next year and close two other facilities.
We also completed a major review of our technology requirements across the Group, culminating in the acquisition of MillenniumIT, an innovative software development firm based in Sri Lanka.
As well as providing the Group with a new, high performance, scalable trading platform for our cash equities markets, London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 11 Introduction Chief Executives review MillenniumIT brings us our own in-house software development open to the broadest pool of clients and develops services on capability with dedicated R&D resource.
We have already an international scale: as important stakeholders in the venture, identified at least 10 million in technology related savings once the banks will support innovative product initiatives and broader our new trading system is rolled out, and believe that further strategy development.
savings will be forthcoming in due course.
Extend Reach Increased efficiency has enabled us to make some important The acquisitions of Turquoise and MillenniumIT in the past year tariff cuts in our UK cash equities business.
As well as making not only provide new assets but, importantly, also help us extend our fees more competitive, we have sought to differentiate them our reach.
Through Turquoise, we have for the first time a from those of our competitors, underlining our desire to provide platform with a pan-European footprint and significant potential a balanced and neutral marketplace for the broadest range for growth.
And since the year end we have launched trading in of clients.
US securities on the platform.
Meanwhile, our brand and balance sheet backing of MillenniumIT has improved its international Build Scale prospects and ability to extend the global reach of its technology In a highly competitive environment, the old adage about sales.
For us, this increases our capacity to broaden and deepen exchanges being scale businesses has never been more true.
our commercial, business and strategic relationships with It is therefore essential that we continue to promote our world exchanges around the world.
class listing business and establish new products that take advantage of existing infrastructure.
We believe that our future depends on our ability to become a truly global player, anchored in London but with a significant Through the combination with Borsa Italiana, we have a broad presence in other time zones.
We will only achieve this goal range of products and services, across asset classes and through through significant partnerships and inorganic growth the value chain.
A number of these products, though, do not yet opportunities within our industry.
enjoy the full benefits of scale.
Achieving greater scale in our business is critical to being able to reward both clients and We cannot outline specific prospects in this regard but, as shareholders alike.
and when it is appropriate to do so, we will set out inorganic opportunities which we believe meet with our strategic objectives Over the past year, we have made steady progress on leveraging and which will deliver benefits to shareholders and clients, and our assets.
In July, our clearing business, CC&G, was approved by pursue them vigorously, but with a clear discipline.
the FSA to operate in the UK, following which we have started to use its services for our UK-regulated derivatives business, EDX.
A Year of Progress In February, we launched a retail bond market in the UK based This has been an eventful year, a period of change and challenge, on our offering in Italy, which is by far the most successful and I am grateful to staff, shareholders and clients for the welcome example of its kind in Europe.
and support they have shown to me since taking on the job.
Collectively, we have made very good progress against our Among product enhancements over the coming year, we intend objectives, but we recognise that there remains much work to to expand the range of equity derivatives contracts traded be done.
We are aware that, in many cases, the fruits of our beyond our Italian, Russian and Scandinavian based products, labour to date have yet to be harvested.
and are part way through the process of migrating all derivatives trading to a single, high performance platform.
In the coming year, as we continue to deliver on the key elements of the strategy within a fluid market and regulatory environment, Increase Scope we expect to see further progress across our business.
Alongside building scale it is imperative that we increase the scope of our activities in product development, trading functionality, post trade and information services.
The acquisition of MillenniumIT is integral to our ability to achieve this.
Xavier Rolet chief executive As well as providing cost effective trading platforms, MillenniumIT will be used to deliver market surveillance, ticker plant, desktop services, smart order routing and post trade technology.
In the process, we will be able to accelerate our time to market for new products and functionality enhancements while at the same time reducing our overall development and ownership costs.
In addition to improving our in-house assets and capabilities, our ability to introduce new products and services hinges on the quality of our client relationships.
A significant development in this regard has been our recent creation of a partnership with 12 of the worlds leading banks to lead Turquoise in the next phase of its development.
As the majority shareholder, we will ensure that the pan-European platform is neutral, efficiently run, 12 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010
