06 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Chief Executives Review Following the liquidity and performance The last two years have seen a permanent change in the challenges of 2008 and early 2009, the last hedge fund landscape, with investors focused more than 12 months have been a time of consolidation and rebuilding for many hedge fund styles.
ever on transparency, governance and liquidity as well as While the overall trajectory was upward across performance.
Man has taken decisive action to reflect these a range of markets in particular equities, the day-to-day picture was more complex.
changes in our business actions which were given added Markets rallied and reversed, with many impetus by redemptions from institutions seeking liquidity oscillating in a narrow range, as confidence in the recovery was repeatedly tested.
and a period of negative performance at AHL.
These factors led to a reduction in assets under management At Man, assets stabilised at around $39 billion in March 2010.
In the first half of the financial and a sizeable fall in profits in 2010, and mean that our year, strong sales reflected very positive expectations for 2011 remain measured.
These were more than offset by institutional redemptions, as Man worked hard to maintain We have restructured our Multi-Manager business around liquidity for institutional investors a commitment which enhanced our reputation.
the transparency offered by managed accounts, built our In the second half of the financial year, weaker global business in onshore regulated products and continued AHL performance adversely affected funds under management, with muted sales and to invest in AHL.
The result is a reshaped and rejuvenated reductions in product investment exposures.
We have plenty still to do, but our position at the Lower average assets over the period, vanguard of industry change has deepened our competitive $42.6 billion compared to prior year $65.1 advantage.
In May 2010, we announced the proposed billion, translated into lower net management fee income of $463 million.
Performance fees acquisition of GLG Partners, Inc. in a transaction which were modest at $97 million, 27% of the prior gives Man high quality discretionary investment year.
The combined effect saw profits before tax and adjusting items of $560 million, down management capability in strategies with a low correlation from $1.2 billion the previous year.
Broadening our range of diversified, liquid As we entered the new financial year, funds strategies for the benefit of our investors, the new business under management began to recover, AHL also provides a platform for the build out of further performance improved and we announced $1.5 billion of new institutional mandates, which discretionary investment management styles.
The hedge will be included in FUM over the coming fund industry is primed for a new wave of allocations, months.
Funds under management at 25 May are estimated at $39 billion, broadly unchanged and we are well placed to strengthen our position as an from $39.4 billion at financial year end.
A sense of caution remains evident among institutional and private investors.
The recovery in the hedge fund industrys assets under Funds under Management FUM management was driven by performance $ billion rather than flows.
Nevertheless, my frequent conversations with our investors, partners and peers lead me to believe that investor appetite $74.6 $46.8 $44.0 $39.4 $39 for hedge fund investment is rebuilding, with high-end institutional investors in particular looking to reallocate to hedge funds.
The two seminal investment management years of 2008 and 2009 have emphatically underscored the long term investment proposition of hedge funds: attractive diversifying returns, actively managed downside risk and lower levels of volatility.
In order for the rationale of hedge fund investing to translate into allocations, new MARCH 2008 MARCH 2009 SEPTEMBER 2009 MARCH 2010 MAY 2010 standards need to be achieved across the 07 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 This remains a period of significant opportunity in our industry and I believe that Mans business continues to benefit from a strong competitive position, founded on performance over the mid to long term, powerful global distribution and structuring capability, financial strength and effective business management.
We will continue to build patiently upon these foundations, with a strong expectation over the coming years that we will grow assets and market share.
08 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued industry.
Prerequisites are enhanced be a significant catalyst for improved sales, transparency, control of assets and flexibility with the potential to open up a broad range of in portfolios that translates into performance, opportunities across the geographic spectrum.
Trading conditions for AHL along with demonstrable financial strength and business sustainability.
There is also a genuine AHLs impressive 20-year track record is improved notably in the requirement for transparent, locally regulated interspersed with reversals and retrenchments, run-up to year end, with product formats.
Much of the activity this year that managed futures strategies typically at Man has been geared to meeting these experience in periods of drawdown.
We have AHL up around 5.4% in expectations.
I pay tribute to the significant always encouraged investors to look at AHL as March.
If sustained, we effort from our employees across the firm to a medium-term investment, with an average ensure we have adapted to address these holding period for AHL-based products of at would expect continued evolving requirements, without losing focus least three to five years.
Over the medium and positive AHL performance on performance and client service.
longer term, AHL provides attractive rates of return with a low correlation to other asset to be a significant catalyst AHL: challenging trading classes.
For example, the three year for improved sales, unlocking conditions: increased confidence annualised return to 31 March 2010 for Man The process of markets finding their feet AHL Diversified Plc, our largest fund, is up the potential of a broad through 2009 was a challenging one for 12.0%, while world stocks represented by geographic range of managed futures managers such as AHL.
MSCI World Stock Index were down 7.7% Difficult trading conditions were driven by an over the same period.
opportunities currently unusual combination of factors, including in the pipeline.
central bank intervention and record Our long-term investors continue to see real government bond issuance, changing views on value in the diversification benefits that inflation and deflation, fluctuating risk appetite managed futures provide, and we are investing and conflicting commodity-related supply and significantly in AHLs people and systems to demand signals.
There were some more stable ensure that we realise the full potential of this price trends from which AHL was able to profit unique asset.
AHLs research headcount has over the period, notably in equities.
The net more than doubled in the last two years, and in effect however was negative, with AHL ending March 2009 we opened a new trading desk in the financial year down 7.7%, with around three Hong Kong.
In August 2009, both AHLs quarters of that loss the result of extreme Oxford research laboratory and the co-located moves in currencies, bonds and interest rates academic research institute moved to new in the month of December.
premises to accommodate significantly enlarged teams.
Partially as a result of our Trading conditions for managed futures collaboration with Oxford University, we improved notably in the run up to the end of entered 2010 with a very rich research pipeline, the financial year, with AHL up around 3.5% in applying AHLs trading methodology to a wider the calendar year to 17 May 2010.
If sustained, range of systematic strategies.
PG 12 we would expect positive AHL performance to Annualised returns over three years 12.0% 5.6% 1.1% 7.7% 1.7% 2008 2009 2010 Man AHL DIVERSIFIED PLC Man-IP 220 Man FOUR SEASONS MSCI WORLD INDEX HFRI FUND OF FUNDS STRATEGIES USD I HEDGED TO USD COMPOSITE INDEX PRICE RETURN 09 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Multi-manager: reconfigured business currently has over $7 billion in proposition validated by new managed account format, making Man one of mandate wins the largest providers in the world.
Mans unique Outside managed futures, other styles managed account proposition is built upon our notably credit, event driven and equity experience, independence and portfolio $ 1.5bn long short enjoyed positive rebounds from construction and structuring capabilities.
Our New mandate wins their 2008 lows.
Our multi-manager business, multi-disciplinary teams engage closely with which we will convert with its emphasis on active management, investors and their advisers to understand their into FUM this year.
generated good positive risk-adjusted returns.
specific investment needs and are able to Our award-winning thematic offerings saw design relevant investment solutions for them.
strong performance, most notably our These core skills have been instrumental in Emerging Market Opportunities Fund up 34% securing our new mandates and in delivering in calendar year 2009 and Energy Fund up our strategic objective of creating attractive 9.5% in the same period.
investment solutions for new and existing investors, worldwide.
Across our more diversified multi-manager offerings, we maintained a conservative stance There is a strong forward pipeline of in our overall positioning, seeking to protect prospects across geographies, typically from investors from the many downside risks which sophisticated institutions with developed views persisted through 2009, with Man Four on underlying hedge fund strategies who have Seasons Strategies ending the financial year moved beyond conventional diversified up 8.8%.
In broad terms, our multi-manager fund-of-fund or style fund based offerings.
portfolios underperformed the beta-driven We believe that these institutions represent an markets of 2009, having outperformed in important market segment.
Investors in the 2008, giving an annualised three year earlier stages of bringing hedge funds into their performance broadly in line with peer group, portfolios or with fewer dedicated internal but with lower levels of volatility.
hedge fund resources will continue to value a more packaged approach.
By addressing the Having announced the planned reneeds of both segments, we will rebuild the configuration of our multi-manager business scale and profitability of our Multi-Manager at the end of the previous financial year, we business.
PG 14 implemented this swiftly in the first quarter.
By July, we had consolidated our broad Onshore momentum from multi-manager capabilities into a single investors and regulators business, enshrined risk management at the Over the year, we continued to expand our same organisational level as investment onshore product range to serve the strong management and revalidated our investment investor demand for liquid, regulated process, testing our new business proposition investment products mainly from private with investors and advisers through the investors, but with some institutional interest, Q&A with Peter Clarke summer.
In October the Fitch rating agency notably in Europe and to access new markets A comprehensive question and answer session validated the new business by conferring on us worldwide.
Onshore regulated products form can be found on the Man Group Online Annual an M2 rating, the highest given any multithe vast bulk of our open-ended offering, Report.
In our last financial quarter which dominated private investor sales over www.
com we secured around $1.5 billion of new mandate the last financial year.
wins, including a notable cornerstone investment programme of up to $1 billion with Man is part of a small group of alternative asset the Universities Superannuation Scheme, the managers who have cultivated strong UKs second largest private sector fund.
These partnerships with investors, intermediaries, new mandates are expected to register as regulators and others over many years.
These increased FUM over the coming months as the partnerships enable us to raise assets onshore, relevant investment management set ups are as well as internationally.
Over the period we put in place.
launched two new AHL UCITS funds in Europe, one designed specifically for the UK The successful attraction of new mandates to market.
Other initiatives include a Europe-wide the multi-manager business reflects significant equity long short fund: further onshore use of managed accounts as a mechanism for Australian and Canadian products: a efficiently accessing hedge fund alpha.
pioneering onshore Brazilian product: and a Managed accounts have been high on the ground-breaking fund of futures fund in industry agenda throughout the last financial Taiwan.
In practice, Man has been significantly year and are a key component of our ahead of the industry in onshore markets for multi-manager offering.
The multi-manager some time providing portfolios to meet 10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued exacting local regulatory standards and infrastructure to adapt and operate successfully Outlook investor requirements without compromising in virtually any likely policy outcome.
The hedge fund industry as a whole has the value of the underlying investment regained momentum and there is genuine proposition.
Examples include Man AHL Our financial strength gives confidence to potential for a new wave of asset growth.
Base Diversified Futures Limited our $1.4 billion our regulators as well as to investors and case industry estimates of $2.6 trillion in regulated onshore Hong Kong futures fund counterparties.
We ended the period with industry assets by the end of 2013 look which was first approved for public distribution a regulatory capital surplus of $1.5 billion ambitious, but achievable.
The launch of new onshore, regulated and net cash balances of $1.7 billion and we drivers.
Firstly, the prospect of significant products brings access to diversified, risk have continued to exercise financial discipline institutional allocations, with confidence and adjusted hedge fund returns to a broader in cost management and in the targeted trust returning, in tandem with greater market, and presents opportunities to expand use of our balance sheet to support key appreciation of the role different hedge fund our investor base.
Our capital resources strategies can play in addressing longstanding positioned us strongly to address structural challenges such as liability Regulatory expertise and capital opportunities in our industry and invest mismatches.
Secondly, a more general shift in strength further in our business.
the mass affluent markets to a similar The real momentum for onshore, regulated understanding of the benefits of hedge fund solutions is a combination of investor pull and Demand for greater access to hedge fund techniques namely more active management regulatory push.
The need for our industry to exposure which is liquid, onshore and of downside risk and more varied ways of be well regulated, transparent and investor transparent has been a significant driver in our capturing upside potential which then friendly is one we have consistently strategy to broaden the sources of return we translates into an appetite for intuitive and championed.
Our experience, scale and offer our investors.
resources enable us to secure our position as the year on our appetite in particular for the a leader in risk management and governance.
equity long short styles and related We start the year with an asset base at a The significant international debate around discretionary investment management much lower level than prior years and with regulatory policy which has characterised adjacencies.
Besides the complementary modest expectations on performance much of the year is, of course, ongoing.
After a characteristics of equity and equity long short fees, given the 2009 AHL drawdown.
flurry of initial consultations and in some cases with AHL in terms of low correlation, these are However, we have entered a period of relatively hurried draft legislation, the process of clearly styles which are well suited to existing significant opportunity in our industry refining the proposed measures into directives onshore formats and an effective bridge to and I believe that Mans business which are practical, competitive and above all wider mass affluent audiences.
continues to benefit from a strong in the best interests of investors has been competitive position, founded on arduous.
Maintaining global consensus has On 17 May 2010 we announced the proposed performance over the mid to long-term, proved challenging with a consequent risk of acquisition of GLG, a leading global multipowerful global distribution and emerging regionalised approaches which are strategy investment manager with around $24 structuring capability, financial strength fragmented and inconsistent.
What is evident is billion in FUM and a low style correlation to and effective business management.
Our that the overwhelming regulatory momentum managed futures.
In putting our capital to work proposed acquisition of GLG will further at market, manager and product level is for an in this powerful transaction, we are squarely strengthen our competitive position and industry which is robust, open and with a delivering on our strategy and GLG is an Man will continue to build upon these maturity in approach and stature consistent excellent fit.
More detail on the proposed foundations, with a strong expectation with its important role in global markets.
transaction is set out in the Chairmans over the coming years that we will grow Review and commentary on the potential assets and market share.
Man has for a long time been both transparent financial effects of the transaction are included and regulated as befits our UK-listed status in the post balance sheet event note in the and we have the expertise, relationships and Financial Statements.
Graph 2 Potential for industry growth $ billion 3500 Q1 10 3000 actual $1.67 trn 2500 2000 1500 Projected hedge fund industry 1000 trend line bull case Projected hedge fund industry 500 trend line bear case Projected hedge fund industry trend line base case 2001 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Q2 09 09 Q1 10 10 11 12 13 HFR industry asset line 11 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Key achievements in 2010 Strategic priorities for 2011 Launched Man Multi-Manager, an Harness new single manager content by integrated hedge fund management executing on acquisitions stakes.
Invest in AHL to ensure we capture Expanded Mans managed accounts platform, with over $7 billion of FUM the programmes full potential.
PG 12 now in managed account format.
Maximise Man Multi-Manager by Doubled AHLs research resources rebuilding scale and profitability.
PG 14 and opened a new trading desk in Hong Kong.
Deepen our Distribution reach, Launched onshore regulated specifically in regulated onshore markets products in Europe, Asia and the and across institutions worldwide.
Maintain focus on efficiency by continually evaluating our cost base.
Our ability to deliver these priorities is dependent above all on our people.
Ambition, entrepreneurialism, integrity, open communication and collaboration are the defining qualities of Mans culture.
Together with my management team, I am committed to continuing to attract talent to the firm, incentivising people appropriately and giving them opportunities to grow.
In my frequent visits to Man offices worldwide, I am constantly impressed by the level of engagement our people show.
I am confident that we have the right people to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead and deliver on our strategic priorities for the benefit of our investors.
