PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 08 Chief Executives review This Annual Report marks the end of an era, but We are determined to also the beginning of a new and exciting time in the Companys development.
The metamorphosis maintain our focus on from PartyGaming into bwin.
party digital entertainment plc sets us apart from our operational excellence, competitors and I believe puts us in pole position challenge convention to exploit the continued expansion of online gaming worldwide.
We have formalised this years and search for new, Annual Report into two distinct documents: first, this Annual Report represents the document of more effective processes record regarding PartyGaming Plcs performance in 2010 and fulfils all of the Companys statutory to achieve our goals reporting obligations: and second, we have anddeliver results.
prepared a much more forward looking document setting out the vision and strategy for bwin.
party digital entertainment plc, including the combined Groups unaudited pro forma financial Jim Ryan performance, to give shareholders and other Chief Executive Officer stakeholders a clear picture of where the combined Group is heading.
Developments in 2010 Whilst the merger represents the most significant strategic development in 2010, I would also like to reflect on our operating performance in 2010, with a particular focus on the big growth question that we posed ourselves at the beginning of the year: How will we increase revenue in 2010?
This may have seemed like a straightforward Introduction enough question at the beginning of 2010, but it A defining moment can take many forms but proved to be a more complex challenge as we ouragreement to merge with bwin Interactive had to shake-off and move on from the adverse Entertainment AG in July 2010 certainly qualifies impact of the previous years perfect storm of asjust that.
The merger will define our future by volatile currency movements, the global financial transforming our business and placing us at the crisis and an unlevel playing field in poker.
forefront of the online gaming industrys next stage of development one that is set to be dominated However, we did increase total revenue by 15.2% by a transition from unregulated to regulated in2010 with improvements in Casino, our star markets.
The merger achieves two prime objectives performer: Sports Betting, which enjoyed a of PartyGamings three-year rolling strategy successful World Cup, combined with a number of tobecome a leader in online sports betting operational enhancements that improved gross andbecome the worlds most valuable online win margins and reduced bonus costs: and Bingo gaming company by stock market capitalisation.
that benefited from the full integration of Cashcade that we acquired in the summer of 2009.
Poker was the one area of our business where revenue did not grow in 2010 with atough operating environment dominated by US-facing sites that are able to leverage their greater player liquidity and also their superior cash resources into those markets where we are able to compete.
indd 8 17 05 2011 13:09 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 09 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Our merger with bwin will certainly help to level Delivering the strategy the playing field and improve our market share in Despite the headwinds of regulatory change and poker.
Once we combine our respective player competitive pressures, the four main pillars of our liquidity pools, our position in both regulated rolling three-year business strategy remained in markets such as Italy and France, as well as in placeduring 2010, being: grow the player base, other markets should also increase.
In addition to localise the customer offer, broaden the product the uplift in player liquidity, we also hope to benefit base and act responsibly.
The strategy for the from having a more focused brand strategy that enlarged bwin.
party embodies these elements should help to improve our return on marketing and is detailed in the enclosed bwin.
party spend in individual territories.
As we move from a document accompanying this Annual Report.
landscape of unregulated to regulated markets, As we have stated before, the online gaming the advantages of scale are notlimited to just marketis experiencing unprecedented structural poker but are significant across allproducts.
and regulatory change and we expect this The prospect of regulatory change is not limited to tocontinue throughout the rest of this year.
Europe and we are encouraged by the political Asweexecute the integration of both bwin and will to seek to regulate and license online poker in PartyGaming we are determined to maintain our some US States, most notably New Jersey, Florida focus on operational excellence, challenge and California.
Further initiatives to do the same convention and search for new, more effective ata federal level cannot be ruled out in 2011 andefficient processes to achieve our goals and andwe have been working hard to ensure we deliver results.
arewell placed to monetise the US opportunity Our merger with bwin will mean that many of our assoon as, and in whatever form it presents itself.
historic corporate management structures will have Please read pages 16 to 17 for further details on to evolve, catering for the expanded depth of our how we are addressing the evolution of the combined business operations and expertise.
The careful execution of our three-year rolling strategy has continued to generate strong operating cashflow from continuing operations that remained unchanged at 86.3m in 2010 2009: 86.3m.
With a change in name to bwin.
party digital entertainment plc and a clearly defined new strategy for the combined group, weexpect this will continue asweextract the full benefit from the bwin merger, inparticular the 55m of annualised cost and revenue synergies that we have already identified.
indd 9 06 05 2011 20:27 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 10 Chief Executives review The management approach of bwin.
party will be The Review of 2010 and the Our markets, focused on achieving objectives through the products and brands sections in this Annual continual assessment of our plans and their Report contain a number of examples of how the implementation across all parts of the Group.
Group has exploited these drivers to execute our During 2010, this process was managed through business strategy.
fortnightly executive meetings to assess business But examples such as these count for little if they performance and trends, supported by bi-annual are not backed-up by financial results and in meetings involving our most senior executives at particular the generation of substantial and which they interrogate all aspects of our strategy sustainable cashflow.
This requires both revenue and tactics to test the business strategy and make growth and careful management of costs, changes where necessary to keep us on course.
allwithin a well-defined and flexible riskIn executing the four elements of our strategy management framework.
during 2010, we continued to draw upon four key drivers that we have previously identified as likely to improve our chances of success and that we seek to apply to all of our tactical plans.
The key drivers are: Operational excellence focus on our core operations, ensuring all aspects of our business are optimised and delivering the desired results.
Delight the customer by creating the most enjoyable player experience, through a balanced mix of innovation, technology and customer care, we believe that our customer appeal and customer retention rates will increase, delivering higher returns on investment.
Leverage our own assets compared with many other listed companies, the Group has a relatively high proportion of intangible assets such as our brands, extensive customer lists, several years of international online gaming experience, technical know-how and expertise and, the jewel in the crown our multi-product, multi-currency and multi-lingual technology platform.
All of these assets are important for our business-to-consumer offer and are also now being put to good use byothers through business-to-business B2B dealsto generate incremental revenue streams for the Group.
Leverage the assets of others owning the vast majority of our content has historically been a key differentiator between PartyGaming and several of our main competitors.
However, we recognise that we dont have all the best ideas, products and brands and that there are third-party assets that we can draw upon to improve our product offer and enhance the customer experience.
indd 10 06 05 2011 20:27 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 11 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Revenue growth Our revenue model Revenue is driven by the number of players and how much they spend.
This diagram highlights the key drivers of our revenue model.
of active Multiply per active players player Existing Player New player Mix of Frequency Player active attrition sign-ups games of play mix players As shown by our revenue model above, there are Other key influences on revenue growth two key drivers of revenue: the number of active includeexternal factors such as the competitive players we have and the amount of revenue landscape, currency movements, the generated each time they play.
Growing the macroeconomic climate and the introduction player base, as I have already mentioned, was ofnew regulatory regimes by governments.
one of the four main pillars of our business strategy Regulation is of course an opportunity and a threat in 2010, andwe added 896,200 new players to the opportunity to advertise freely, in many cases oursystem, compared with 802,800 in 2009 for the fist time, is a major opportunity to grow anincrease of 12%.
revenue and EBITDA, whilst regulatory costs and taxes may drive revenue in the opposite direction.
Core elements that drive and influence these important metrics include our marketing While encouraged by the early performance in campaigns and the quality of our products, both both Italy and France, it is too early to be definitive of which we continued to improve through about the net impact of regulation in both numerous software upgrades, product launches markets on long-term performance.
However, and marketing promotions in 2010.
We added 30 wecontinue to believe that the prospects for new games to PartyCasino during the year, of revenue growth remain significant as more new which nine unique slots were developed by our geographic markets open and the fact that while in-house team.
OurGladiator and Cash Machine growing, the online gaming still represented less 1 promotions were both innovative and highly than 8.5% in 2010 of the total gaming market.
successful campaigns that continued into 2011.
1 Source: H2 Gambling Capital, February 2011 14119 PG AR10 p01-13.
indd 11 06 05 2011 20:27 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 12 Chief Executives review Managing costs and regulatory compliance Managing our people Managing the cost base for any business is critical Any organisation is defined by the people that for long-term success, especially for businesses like workthere and at PartyGaming we aim to recruit ours that have global reach, are exposed to the very best talent.
As well as having the requisite currency movements as well as shifts in technology professional and academic qualifications, our and consumer tastes.
In addition, the transition approach to recruitment also takes account of from unregulated to regulated markets means anindividuals broader attributes such as their that online gaming operators are also now having ability to innovate and adapt, their drive and to manage the associated entry costs for each teamwork and their ability to keep abreast of new market including the cost of implementing what is by anymeasure a fast-moving, innovative, technical requirements and modifications, highly demanding and competitive company marketing and gaming taxes.
In the face of these challenges in 2010, through This is not an environment that suits everybody but atightly controlled cost management process the forthose that are excited by it, our management Group delivered a Clean EBITDA margin of 28.1%, approach is to encourage employees to assume inline with our previous guidance.
Whilstproud of responsibility, to use their initiative and to work ourtrack record for anticipating and adapting hard to help us achieve our objectives.
In return, swiftly our infrastructure and organisation to we pay well and reward well with a total changes in our business environment, the transition remuneration package geared to the Groups to regulated markets and some associated financial performance and execution of our investment together with a full year of Cashcade strategic plan, with senior executives being and WPT meant that we finished the year with 6% themost-geared overall.
By being linked to more staff than in 2009.
PartyGamings profit performance and the implementation of our strategy, our remuneration Whilst focused on managing costs and achieving policy ensures we remain focused on delivering our short-term financial goals, this is never at the value for our investors.
expense of our long-term objective of sustainable, profitable growth.
Managing our risks and Collectively our Company is measured by regulatory compliance are core competencies: ouroverall financial performance and the collectively they equate to our reputation, which performance of each and every one of our we have to safeguard and enhance to make employees is assessed twice a year against precertain that we do not lose the confidence or trust determined objectives.
Ourappraisal process of our customers.
As the regulatory landscape enables us to recognise and nurture talent and, becomes more complex, we assess the need for atthe same time, also highlights performance additional investment and resource by continually that may be below par.
This is crucial, because Financial rewards and incentives are an important the breadth and nature of risks faced is constantly but only partial element of our approach to shifting.
Besides our own review processes for people management.
We see it as vital that our managing risks, external regulators and employees have a clear view of our business compliance bodies regularly audit our business strategy, their role in achieving that strategy operations, ensuring that we maintain high andour performance against pre-determined standards, whilst continuing to maximise profits: milestones.
This requires our communications to be acting responsibly isacore element of our direct and open, delivered through a variety of strategy and will continue tobe so for bwin.
channels including regular town hall meetings, The bottom line is that we are measured by our newsletters, eCommunications and the intranet, results, attained in a risk-managed framework that all of which are employed to ensure that wherever isintended to deliver the long-term value of our they are working in the business, our staff know prime assets.
where we are going, what progress we are making and what they can do to help to get usthere faster.
indd 12 06 05 2011 20:27 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 13 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Objectives for 2011 and outlook Secure long-term strategic partnerships both Our merger with bwin represents an exciting new bwin and PartyGaming have a long history of chapter in the development of our Company.
recognising the value from long-term relationships Itsignals a transformation into a clear market with strategic partners.
bwins brand has become leader across the four major product verticals of synonymous with sport through its sponsorship of sports betting, poker, casino and bingo.
With our some of the worlds biggest names in sport such merger expected to complete at the end of asReal Madrid, AC Milan and Bayern Munich.
March 2011, we are focused on putting into Both bwin and PartyGaming have also forged action the detailed plans that we have prepared strong partnerships with a number of corporate so that we can extract the 55m of financial customers such as PMUand Amaury in France.
synergies we have already identified, integrate all These are just some examples of how both aspects of the two organisations and set in motion companies have recognised the value that can the business strategy for the combined Group.
be created from leveraging the assets of others.
While we have identified anumber of individual Act responsibly as a market leader, we are strategies that we will be adopting, each of these determined to lead by example.
We are intent on can be classified under fourbroad headings: opening new markets and promoting the merits Focus on regulated and to-be-regulated markets ofreal money gaming around the world.
Our Our industry is undergoing an unprecedented reputation for fair play and responsible gaming is regulatory shift from unregulated towards second to none and is driven by the fact that the regulated markets.
As the worlds largest listed trust of our customers is a pre-requisite for longonline gaming company, we are going to focus term success.
Both bwin and PartyGaming have our efforts on securing meaningful market shares been pioneers in the areas of gambling research ineach of our four product verticals in all of the and innovation.
Building on bwins existing major regulated and to-be-regulated markets.
collaboration with Harvard Medical School, the Thiswill be achieved through a combination of combined group plans to increase its efforts to both organic as well as acquisition-led growth.
promote safe and secure gaming on the internet.
Atthe same time, we will continue to lobby As we enter this unprecedented period of governments for legislation that both meets the regulatory change, there are going to be needs and desires of the regulators whilst opportunities and challenges ahead aswe remaining commercially attractive to ensure that makethe transition to regulated markets.
Butwe regulated companies are not at a significant have a clearly defined plan and are focused on disadvantage to unregulated companies.
delivering the synergies already identified from Invest in development of technology and brands ourmerger with bwin thatshould help to smooth Both bwin and PartyGamings success has been thistransition.
We are confident about the outlook borne out of an ability to innovate and a and the enlarged Groups prospects.
willingness to invest in developing the best products and brands.
Our drive and determination to remain at the vanguard of theindustry has seen both businesses expand into new areas and develop new and innovative products this is at the very centre of our success and is part of our DNA.
Despite being less than 15years old, our respective brands and products are already some of the strongest in the industry we want to make them stronger through delivery of the best customer experience, irrespective of product or channel.
