04 Here & Now Chief Executives review Tony Rice Our business is positioned in premium growth economies and we are the market leader in most.
We offer the full-suite of services fixed, mobile, broadband and enterprise and aim to bring more new services, particularly data services, to our markets to drive revenue and margins.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 05 Introduction Q Q Q What are the competitive strengths of Can you describe the performance of the What can we expect from Cable & Wireless business last year?
TR: 2009 10 was a very Cable & Wireless Communications?
TR:The Communications in 2010 11 and beyond?
first competitive strength is the quality of difficult year for all telecoms companies TR: The aftershocks of the economic and we were not spared the effects of the our management.
If you look atwhere we downturn are still impacting most are successful, its a function oflocal economic shock-waves that started in larger economies and consumer and enterprise economies and quickly spread to other management delivering for the spend therein.
communities, customers, and countries and markets.
I was pleased with Im really excited by the prospect of leading our performance in a number of respects.
governmentsof their markets as well into the future what was the original Cable asrunning the business effectively for Firstly, we delivered a high quality and & Wireless business, now reinstated to a improving level of service, products and financialperformance.
value to our consumer and enterprise Secondly, we are in smaller markets that customers.
Secondly, we met our Im looking for Cable & Wireless arent pioneer markets so we can phase in commitment to partner governments to Communications to progress in 2010 11 various new developments without being give them a world class telecommunications interms of customer delivery but also exposed to the cutting edge of technology, capability as a key driver of economic financial performance.
Of course, we have which can be painful as some operators development.
Lastly, I was pleased with our tocope with the headwinds of inflation and indeveloped markets are finding.
some additional costs transferred from our Despite thecredit crunch and local factors, Third is our market position.
Were very previous Central plc function but our job is such asintensifying competition, three of strongly positioned as market leader in to manage these and still deliver growth.
our four business units grew EBITDA.
We mostof the country markets were in, in Im also looking for greater portfolio also completed our demerger, which was a fixed line, broadband and mobile.
momentum in terms of reshaping the significant achievement in opening the Q portfolio and building on the key areas wayto further shareholder value.
What are the future drivers for your business ofgrowth.
Q and how are you positioned to take When will performance in the Caribbean advantage of them?
TR:There will be four business turn around and how crucial is it to drivers product innovation, mobile data, the overall performance of the business?
the triple play and the economy.
TR:Three of our business units Panama, Product innovation is key.
Our customers, Macau and Monaco & Islands operate in whether they be consumers or enterprises, premium GDP territories.
The Caribbean, are looking for it and prepared to pay for however, is exposed to tourism, and thus innovative and efficient products that more affected by the global economy.
Last enable them to live their lives better and year, both tourist numbers and tourist manage their businesses more efficiently.
spend were weaker which had a knock-on I am particularly proud of our Social impact on other sectors in the economy.
Telecoms capability where we are Tourist numbers appear to be improving developing a set of products inthe this year, but the evidence we see is that areas of security, health, education and visitor spend is still down.
These deliver telecoms management team in place with a grip enabled, key public services and important onthe business not just managing the projects for social change to the costline but also the development of communities in which we operate.
Mobile data is an interesting situation.
Q Inour view the business model is still The Panama business performed strongly in evolving between the handset providers, the face of new mobile competition last year, the applications houses, and the telcos but what do you expect from it this year?
were well placed as we cover the telecoms TR: Panama did well last year.
Our market waterfront with sub-sea cables, backhaul, share held up through the year which was broadband, fixed and mobile.
Im confident excellent, given the new competition.
This that a lot of the value that attaches to mobile year Im looking for positives from Panamas data as it grows will come to us.
enterprise business which we expect will $2.3bn improve as the new Government gets into The next is the triple play.
We can bundle Revenue its stride and starts to deliver the public our offering and provide it to the consumer sector projects, in which were involved.
atan advantageous price and, in doing so, We have also launched pay TV, which had not just roll out pay TV as a new product a good start in the last three months of the butalso consolidate our market position $866m year and were looking for a good market infixed and broadband.
EBITDA share from this business by the end of this Finally, the economy.
Lastly, well look to maintain our ontelecoms is a function of disposable market share and financial performance income and thats under pressure in the mobile market.
But we arefortunate to be positioned in markets Operating cash flow with premium GDP characteristics.
