16 business revieW Q&a With the chieF executive Q. hoW does cable&Wireless WorldWide Q. have the recessionary headWinds eased?
Jim: Its early days but the signs are very Jim: Our passion for the customer is our encouraging.
Voice minutes have stabilised differentiator.
We have clearly established our and there are signs that corporate spending capabilities, we have a leading product set and is beginning to recover from the levels during an exciting roadmap along with a great depth the last 12 months.
It is important to note of network, but it is our approach to serving the that at Cable&Wireless Worldwide we dont customer which truly differentiates us.
need a huge recovery to meet our expectations.
There is a massive amount of market share to We build a solution that really meet the needs of go after in the UK, both through new customer our customers customers who consider their wins and through increasing the share of wallet telecommunications infrastructure to be critical in our current customer base where we already to their business success and we provide the provide services to 76 of the companies in the dedicated support required to give customers FTSE 100. confidence in the solution.
Q. are you satisFied With your delivery Q.
What pleases you most about the last oF proFit and cash?
12 months in cable&Wireless WorldWide?
We delivered what we promised that Jim: Clearly the demerger at the end of March was is satisfying.
But there is no level of profit with a historic milestone in the history of this business, which we will ever be entirely satisfied.
We were but what pleased me most is that Cable&Wireless frustrated that just as the business was positioning Worldwide proved itself strong through the most itself for growth we were hit by the recession.
difficult macro-economic conditions in my lifetime.
However, this business is now very well placed We once again delivered on our promises with record to take advantage of the changes in the industry profitability and cash generation.
The progress that and to increase profit and cash rapidly.
weve made over the last twelve months is testament to the four years of very hard work by all of the colleagues who have transformed this business.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 17 Q.
What are the main industry themes capital requirements.
We have both the network Which are aFFecting the business?
and the product suite to be a winner here.
Jim: The industry themes and trends are very positive for Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
What is the outlook From here For are becoming increasingly dependent on their top line revenue?
communications infrastructure and are increasingly Jim: Growing top line revenue is one of my three choosing their supplier on criteria beyond price.
We priorities and it is a proof point we still need to and believe this favours Cable&Wireless Worldwide due will achieve.
Short term however, the voice market to our concentration on delighting our customers remains uncertain and, although it is lower margin, through our differentiated solutions and service revenue is sensitive to this so I wouldnt want to ethos.
Our Fixed Mobile Convergence product is make any predictions.
In our key data strategic capitalising on the shift from mobile to fixed line product set we expect to grow revenue in 2010 11 telecommunications, driven by the explosive demand and beyond.
There is an increasing demand for fully outsourced managed hosted services what is Q.
What next For the business?
commonly referred to as cloud computing.
Although Jim: More of the same.
The industry trends are it is still in its early stages we believe the winners here beginning to favour Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
will have strong capability in fixed line network and in The opportunity set is expanding.
We will continue to hosting this places Cable&Wireless Worldwide in focus on growing our share of the enterprise market the vanguard.
by delivering a better quality of proposition and service to customers.
I have clearly set out my Q.
What are your plans in the mid-market?
priorities: uniqueness, growth and cash.
We have Jim: I am very encouraged by the quality of the a differentiated proposition and we will continue to mid-market business we acquired through the put further, clear blue water between us and the acquisition of THUS Group, and having carried out competition.
I believe we can deliver truly profitable a thorough assessment, we are fully committed to top line growth.
Cash generation is the ultimate growing our presence in the mid-market in the UK.
measure of success: we will seek to deliver increasing This is a 5 billion market with high margins and low sustainable cash flows from this business.
