14 business revieW chieF executives statement We diFFerentiate ourselves through our customer service.
this has been the bedrock oF our transFormation and Will remain so.
I am pleased that we generated strong results our involvement in the West Africa Cable System.
yet again and made real strategic progress.
These investments strengthen our position in a Not only did we deliver our cash and EBITDA number of emerging markets.
Continuing the guidance once again, but we also completed disciplined investment strategy of our turnaround, our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc.
weve already underpinned the economics with the This is a very proud moment that has been forward sale of a proportion of the capacity.
I see this as our coming of Our direct mid-market business, THUS, is already age, having spent four years on the turnaround of the professional brand in mid-market data.
We are our business, and we now have the opportunity to committed to this market and to establishing show the world our true capability and potential.
ourselves as the clear winner in the mid-market Our primary market remains UK enterprise and public data space.
In doing this we will also continue to sector, where we continued to improve our market work with our indirect reseller customers to build share.
These customers are increasingly dependent a significant wholesale business.
on communications to ensure the smooth running of We have our carrier business the wholesale their business.
Increasingly, they are seeing the value, operation thats important to any telecoms reliability and scalability that our fully managed company in order to achieve the best network service proposition offers.
Its this realisation that a economics.
Within this we have a fast growing communications partner can add value that is driving line of business which is wholesale consumer our sales momentum and, in certain sectors, we now broadband, supporting significant industry players have clear market leadership.
such as Tesco Broadband and Virgin Media.
Its not just the UK where we work with large From a product perspective, the growing demand enterprise customers.
Our global network has for global bandwidth plays well to our extensive already given us market advantage in certain next-generation network reach and global Multi geographies.
We believe our network is still underService Platform MSP.
The significant interest exploited, particularly given the rapid increase in data in cloud computing offers us the opportunity to and explosive demand for bandwidth that is taking combine our high quality network and data centres place at present.
with our managed services ethos.
As cloud This is why we continued to make targeted computing moves from a fringe activity to an investment in our network, through both the coming accepted norm, our scale and expertise in hosting years completion of the Europe India Gateway and positions us strongly for the future.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 15 We are well positioned for future growth and in terms growing convergence of fixed and mobile is allowing of our priorities for the year ahead, they break down enterprise customers to consolidate their requirements into three areas: into a single, robust, fixed line solution.
Uniqueness Outlook We differentiate ourselves through our customer Market conditions are improving and we are service.
This has been the bedrock of our experiencing good momentum in our core business transformation and will remain so.
Customers segments and key areas of future growth, both in the will always be at the heart of everything we do.
We already generate 72% of our margin from data and 86% of our sales pipeline is in Growth our higher margin strategic product set.
We also see The delivery of profitable revenue growth remains further scope for operating efficiencies and a steep a priority, with improvements in the economic downward trajectory for cash exceptional charges.
conditions, a strong sales performance last year Taking all of these factors together, we remain and growing demand across all our core markets.
confident in meeting expectations for cash and Cash EBITDA generation for 2010 11.
Sustainable cash flow thats delivered through In summary, it is a very exciting time for continued margin growth, continued opex reduction Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
Yet again, weve delivered and increasingly better capex utilisation.
The growth on our commitment to our shareholders and our in cash generation will outstrip earnings growth, as customers, and we will continue to do so.
With the we concentrate on improving our processes and turnaround complete and the demerger now history, pursue additional operating cost savings and as this really is our moment to build on our success, grow the exceptional cash charges reduce rapidly: we our business and deliver our full potential.
currently expect these to reduce by around 75% over the next two years.
Weve improved all aspects of our business and have achieved a scale that allows us to progress rapidly and I believe that the telecommunications environment is beginning to favour fixed line operators, with the demand for bandwidth outstripping anything that can Jim Marsh be provided by the mobile spectrum.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer
