06 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives Following more than 20 years of successful REVIEW exploration, development and production in South Asia, Cairn has built a material business in India of strategic significance.
This led to Cairn receiving an offer in Cairn continues to believe the necessary approvals to the summer of 2010 for the purchase complete the Vedanta transaction will be received and by Vedanta of the majority of Cairns shareholding in CIL.
is working with the Government of India in a positive and constructive manner.
This transaction is an opportunity to realise value from our strategic stake, The planned sale of Cairns majority stake in India would return significant capital to shareholders lead to a significant return of capital to shareholders and return Cairn to doing what it does whilst maintaining balance sheet strength and flexibility.
best: taking an entrepreneurial approach to exploring for new hydrocarbon sources Cairn is continuing its active exploration programme in frontier basins so providing shareholders offshore Greenland which has the potential for with exposure to future transformational transformational growth while also seeking to potential while maintaining balance sheet strength and flexibility.
I would like add new opportunities.
to take this opportunity to extend my appreciation to all of those who have contributed to our success in India.
SIR BILL GAMMELL CHIEF EXECUTIVE INDIA Mangala is the largest oil discovery in India for more than 20 years.
It was brought on stream in August 2009 and inaugurated at a ceremony by the Indian Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh.
The initial crude was evacuated by road tanker.
In June 2010, CIL completed the worlds longest continuously heated pipeline, which allowed Mangala production to increase to 125,000 bopd in August 2010.
The next fields to be placed on production will be the Bhagyam and Aishwariya fields.
The Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya MBA fields, at the field development plan FDP approved level of 175,000 bopd, will produce more than 20% of Indias overall domestic crude oil production.
The resource base can support production of 240,000 bopd, subject to all required consents and further investment.
Consequently, oil production from Rajasthan can significantly reduce Indias crude import costs and provide increased energy security for the country.
Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 07 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information GREENLAND industry interest in the area was shown However, none of the wells drilled to The US Geological Survey USGS in with Shell, Statoil, GDF, Conoco-Phillips date encountered thick reservoirs in the 2008 highlighted the multi-billion barrels and Maersk among the other recipients Tertiary section.
Also, the Cretaceous of oil equivalent boe risked resource of block awards.
section prognosed in the Alpha well was potential of the Greenland geological not reached in the time available due basins.
The survey found the country In January 2011, the Government of to an unexpectedly thick sequence of to be one of the top ten yet to find Greenland confirmed Cairn as the Operator Tertiary volcanics.
of the Atammik and Lady Franklin blocks, In this context, it is noteworthy that Cairn and Cairn has acquired the 47.5% interest The geochemical analyses of the operates the largest acreage position previously held by Encana.
The entitlement hydrocarbons sampled in the wells 2 102,000km, which is equivalent to 15 interests in these two blocks are now Cairn indicate the presence of two types of quadrants in the UK North Sea and is Operator : 87.5% and Nunaoil: 12.5%.
gas biogenic and thermogenic and three currently the most active explorer in The acquisition of these blocks provides types of oil, one of which is pre-Tertiary the country.
The significant scale of this material additional prospectivity and also and presumed Mesozoic in age, being position means Cairn is now better able to operational flexibility as they are virtually similar in composition to the Itilli oil consider the portfolio management of the free of sea ice all year round.
seeps seen onshore in the Nuussuaq risk and reward balance as its investment area.
It is the presence of this latter oil in the exploration programme continues.
Over the past three years, Cairn has type in the Alpha well that is of particular Last year, Cairn embarked on the first acquired more than 85,000km of 2D interest because it demonstrates a exploration programme offshore seismic, and during 2010 and into 2011 working hydrocarbon system beneath Greenland in ten years, and first drilling completed a record 13 consecutive the volcanics.
It gives fresh impetus to within the Greenland Arctic for 35 years.
months of continuous activity offshore the future exploration programmes in the Greenland.
offshore Baffin Bay basins as we continue In December 2010, the Government of to explore for the thick, high quality and Greenland announced the results of the We have been greatly encouraged by the prospective Cretaceous reservoirs seen Baffin Bay bid round.
Cairn was awarded well results from the 2010 drilling campaign, at outcrops onshore in the Nuussuaq basin an 87.5% interest in three blocks: Ingoraq, which, from an exploration viewpoint, and further south in the Qulleq well drilled Napariaq and Pitu, with its partner Nunaoil proved that the previously undrilled Baffin by Statoil offshore Greenland in 2000.
12.5%, the Greenland National State oil Bay basin is  and company.
Evidence of the increased possesses active petroleum systems.
Supply vessel off Aasiaat, Greenland find out more: www.
com CAIRNS STRATEGY Cairns strategy is to establish commercial reserves from strategic positions in highpotential exploration plays in order to create and deliver shareholder value.
The Company has focused on gaining early entry into key geographic regions such as India and Greenland.
Cairn has an experienced senior management team geared to delivering value for all stakeholders.
In the implementation of this strategy, the Group focuses on identifying assets that are capable of providing significant and sustainable growth through exploration and value through development.
08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Cairn has now drilled three of the total nine exploration wells drilled offshore Greenland to date, previously five wells were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000.
Cairn has now drilled three of the total Cairn and its partner Nunaoil are currently nine exploration wells drilled offshore completing a public consultation process Greenland to date, previously five wells with regard to the 2011 exploration were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000. programme.
The process includes engaging No previous operators were able to benefit with a number of communities along the from a sustained campaign.
Following western coast of Greenland and the Cairns successful operations in 2010, submission of Environmental and Social the Companys multi-year exploration Impact Assessment studies.
Feedback from campaign is planned to continue in 2011. these consultations will be used to tailor Subject to approval from the Government the programme to minimise and mitigate of Greenland, the main elements of the against any potential negative impacts.
2011 exploration campaign, are: t The drilling of up to four exploration FINANCIAL REVIEW wells: This year, the Group has delivered record t Three shallow 400m marine revenues of $1.6 billion, profit after tax soil investigations to obtain critical before exceptional items of $1.1 billion stratigraphic information.
These will and operating cashflow of $837 million.
be drilled in the north of Baffin Bay, the Disko area and the south Group net cash at 31 December 2010, offshore Greenland across a distance after taking account of the $674 million equivalent to that between Edinburgh debt drawn, was $404 million 2009: $524 and Rome : and million including $217 million held by t Three 3D seismic surveys total Cairn India.
2 4,500km, one in the north of Baffin Bay, one in the south of Greenland and The Board continues to focus the Groups one location to be decided dependent capital resources to maximise shareholder on early drilling results.
value and maintain financial and operational flexibility.
The final selection of prospects and well targets for the proposed 2011 exploration Sir Bill Gammell campaign will be made in May 2011.
Chief Executive 21 March 2011 Cairn has again secured two state-of-the-art dynamically positioned drilling vessels for its planned 2011 dual rig exploration programme.
Both of these drilling units are owned and operated by Ocean Rig.
Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 09 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Stella Don drilling vessel, contracted for the 2010 drilling programme Nuuk, Greenland Subject to Greenland Government approvals, in 2011 Cairn plans to: drill up to four exploration wells: conduct three shallow 400m marine soil investigations: and acquire three 3D seismic 2 surveys of 1,500km, following encouraging results from the 2010 exploration campaign.
