MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&AS Julian Roberts answers a range of questions on how Old Mutual is delivering its strategy and what lies ahead for the Group.
1 2 It has been a year now What are the major since you unveiled your challenges and strategic review.
How much opportunities for progress have you made?
Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, We have achieved a lot in 2010.
The challenge now protection and investment group.
One year into a is to ensure we maintain that rate of progress.
three-year process, we have made significant We saw good profit growth last year, and sustaining operational progress.
While the global outlook When we announced our strategy, we said we remains somewhat volatile, we believe that, as long would streamline and simplify the Group where we as we maintain what we have been doing, we can could create shareholder value.
We have set some continue to grow our sales and profits.
criteria to test this, which are: This year we must deliver further on our strategy.
Q Does the business meet or can it meet our We need to continue to deliver cost savings, RoE target?
reduce our debt and work on leveraging our Q Does the business contribute to or can it strengths across the Long-Term Savings division.
contribute to other parts of the Group?
In Emerging Markets, we will focus on designing Q Can it become meaningful in the context of the new products for our customers and ensuring we Groups earnings?
have the right methods of selling to them.
We are excited by the opportunities we see in Emerging As a result of applying these criteria, we have agreed Markets and the potential for expanding our to sell our US Life business for US$350 million.
We are making good progress in achieving the Our restructuring programme in Nordic is intended operational targets we set.
We have delivered to reduce its costs and increase its profitability.
59 million of run-rate savings against our target of Retail Europe is rolling out a suite of new products 100 million.
For our Long-Term Savings business, and Wealth Management will continue reducing we set a return on equity target of 16-18%: last costs and improving efficiency.
year, its RoE was 18.5% and we aim to ensure that this is sustained.
We remain committed to We have a new CEO at US Asset Management, reducing our debt by 1.5 billion by 2012. whose declared priorities are maintaining investment discipline to improve performance and net client In addition, we have implemented a new, more cash ow, driving growth and improving margins.
effective governance and control system.
This We are continuing to explore a partial IPO of this is already working well, with the number of one-off business.
operational losses reducing signicantly during 2010.
We have strengthened our management team At Mutual & Federal, our new MD will be driving its with new CEOs in Nordic, US Asset Management, Step Change Programme, which is necessary to Mutual & Federal M&F and OMIGSA.
refocus and grow the business.
And Nedbank has a clear strategy for growing its retail business and So we have made a good start to meeting our non-interest revenue.
strategic objectives though we recognise we still have a lot of work to do over the next two years.
30 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information 3 4 How are you putting the How would you customer at the centre judge Old Mutuals of everything you do?
Putting the customer at the centre requires us to I am very pleased with our performance in 2010 and would say it has been a year of substantial understand what our customers need, offering them the right products through the right distribution improvement.
Our adjusted operating profit was up 14%, adjusted earnings per share were up 20% channels in each of our markets, while providing unrivalled customer service.
This will create and Group return on equity was up from 9.1% to 12.2%.
In light of these strong results, our Board long-term, sustainable competitive advantage.
has recommended an increased final dividend of We have to develop specic products, distribution 2.9p, making a total of 4.0p for the year.
systems and processes to meet the needs of customers in two distinct types of market: Our funds under management increased during developed countries and emerging markets.
the year to 309 billion and our financial position remains robust.
In the UK, for example, we offer exible, transparent products primarily through our Skandia Looking at our performance in more detail, we saw platform.
Evidence of the development of the 7% growth in life sales on an APE basis and 28% platform business can be found through our growth in unit trust sales in Long-Term Savings.
growing share of the UK savings market: by the Each of our Long-Term Savings businesses grew end of the third quarter of 2010 we had achieved a its profits during the year.
Our Wealth Management 7.4% share, up from 6.4% at the end of 2009. business had a particularly good year, with profits up 86%, and the UK platform attracted gross In Emerging Markets, we have a wider product set, inows of 5.2 billion.
Nordic grew its profits by often centred on regular-premium protection 66% and Emerging Markets also achieved good products and distributed through the channels that sales and profit growth.
We focus on delivering value making sure that our products are transparent, Our short-term insurance business, Mutual & Federal, our fees are clear and our customers get what they had one of its best underwriting performances to want and need.
And Nedbank reduced impairments, increased non-interest revenue and grew headline earnings by 15%.
So we achieved a good performance overall, with all our businesses delivering progress.
Our focus going forward will be on keeping up the good work.
Old Mutual plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
