MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Introduction Strategy Update Our operating results for 2010 are signicantly In 2010, we set out a new strategy for the Group.
ahead of the prior year results as reported with Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, profits up in each of our businesses.
This protection and investment group by leveraging the excellent performance was largely due to strength of our people and capabilities in South strong growth in new business sales, our Africa and around the world.
Through the delivery continued focus on cost control, improved of this strategy, we will drive our businesses to persistency and favourable exchange rates.
enhance value for both our customers and shareholders, increasing our international cash In addition to strong financial performance, we also earnings and overall return on equity.
During the focused on delivering our strategy and have made year, we entered into exclusive negotiations to sell good progress in 2010.
We have agreed to sell US our shareholding in Nedbank, but these Life, a business that was outside our Group risk and discussions did not conclude with a formal offer return prole, for $350 million, resulting in an IFRS being made.
In 2011, we will continue to work with charge of 713 million.
We are awaiting regulatory Nedbank to build shareholder value.
approval, and expect the transaction to close at or around the end of the first quarter of 2011.
The next We are now one year into a three-year process to two years will see a continued single-minded focus deliver this strategy and are making significant to meet our strategic objectives.
We are rationalising our activities over time, reducing the complexity of the The Group is in sound financial shape.
At 31 Group and improving our structure as we manage December 2010 our FGD surplus was 2.1 billion our business with a disciplined approach to risk and we had total liquidity headroom of 1.4 billion.
management, governance and allocation of capital.
We have taken steps to simplify our Group by selling the US Life business, subject to regulatory clearance, and will continue to maintain our strict criteria for keeping businesses within the Group: 24 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information they must meet our capital and risk targets: be Long-Term Savings LTS capable of achieving a 15% return on equity: add Our LTS division delivered very strong results for value to other parts of the Group: and be capable the year with operating profits up 26% on a of creating future value for shareholders.
This was driven by strong profit performance by all of the businesses within We have previously said that we will explore the LTS.
Life sales for the year were up 7% and unit possibility of listing a minority of the US Asset trust sales were up 28% on a constant currency Management business and this remains our basis.
Funds under management FUM increased intention.
The timing of the IPO will be dependent and margins improved.
on margin progression, investment performance and growth.
We continued to strengthen the LTS management team and we appointed new CEOs to the Nordic We have set challenging group-wide performance business and the investment business in South targets for the end of 2012: reducing costs by 100 Africa OMIGSA as well as new heads of Product million: improving return on equity for our Longand IT, roles which are critical to leveraging our Term Savings LTS business to between 16% - capability and delivering the strategy.
18%: and reducing debt by 1.5 billion through proceeds of rationalisation and retained earnings.
We have already delivered 59 million of run-rate savings and are committed to deliver our debt reduction target.
Return on equity for the LTS business was 18.5% at the year-end, as we 1,481m benefited from positive, non-recurring items in both the Nordic and Wealth Management businesses.
Adjusted Operating profit Plans are in place to ensure this performance is sustained within the target range.
We made significant strides in implementing the We have implemented a new, more effective, LTS strategy in 2010.
The business delivered governance and control system giving our run-rate savings of 44 million, against the targeted businesses local autonomy but ensuring that they cost reduction of 75 million.
This was primarily work within Group structures and disciplines, driven by Wealth Management which removed 35 particularly on risk and product underwriting million of costs in 2010 against its stated target of standards.
This new approach has been 45 million by 2012.
We are seeking to leverage implemented effectively and has resulted in the our IT and administration capabilities in South level of one-off operational losses reducing Africa to drive economies of scale and in signicantly across the Group in 2010.
We continue December we opened a new ofce in Cape Town to manage risk effectively and have tightly to provide customer service processing and IT managed the US Life bond portfolio and our support for Retail Europes customers in Germany, business in Bermuda.
Launching new and innovative products through easily accessible distribution We continue to assemble a strong management channels is key to our aim of becoming our team, and recently appointed Peter Bain as CEO of customers most trusted partner.
Whilst this work US Asset Management, and Peter Todd as is still at an early stage, we introduced a number of Managing Director of Mutual & Federal.
These are new initiatives in 2010.
Old Mutual South Africa key roles for the Group as we look to drive the OMSA and Mutual & Federal jointly developed a growth of these businesses.
new short-term insurance product iWYZE for the retail mass market in South Africa.
This product is We are clear on our strategy and are committed to distributed through traditional mass market models delivering it.
but also through digital channels and in the nine months since it launched, has already attracted nearly 5,000 customers.
To date, iWYZE has also created approximately 150 new jobs in South We are now one year into a three-year Africa, primarily for young people.
process to deliver this strategy and are making significant operational progress Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive Old Mutual plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Through our joint venture in India, Kotak Mahindra We have a solid foundation in South Africa from Old Mutual Life Insurance, we launched an online which we can drive growth in other emerging portal allowing customers to buy term insurance at markets, and we are adapting our senior a cheaper rate than through normal distribution management structures, roles and responsibilities channels.
In Mexico, a unit-linked product was to achieve this.
Our priorities for 2011 include redesigned in conjunction with our team in South growing our sales force: designing and adapting Africa and has since proved a key driver of our products for a wide range of customers: making it increased sales in the country.
We also introduced easier for our customers to access financial a new Mass Retail distribution team into Mexico services and promoting a savings culture in the in December.
markets in which we operate.
We have confidence in the underlying business and are well-positioned LTS: Emerging Markets to exploit business opportunities as the economies of the Emerging Markets grow.
In South Africa, our business delivered a strong performance with life sales up 7% and unit trust LTS: Nordic sales up 17%.
There was a noticeable improvement in sales in the second half as interest rates were cut The Nordic economies experienced positive GDP and as the economic environment in South Africa growth in 2010 and our Nordic business also had stabilised.
We saw good sales growth in both the a good year, delivering a 66% uplift in profit.
Life Retail Afuent and Mass Foundation segments, with sales were down 21% on the prior year, in line with a particular focus on savings products.
The latest management expectations, following the closure of economic data is encouraging for the performance an unprofitable business line in 2009.
Our Danish of the business in 2011. business grew strongly.
FUM was up 14% on the prior year, mainly due to improved equity markets, We launched the Futuregrowth Agri-Fund focusing which also contributed to strong growth in mutual on responsible equity investments in agricultural funds, up 37%.
land, agri-businesses and farming infrastructure.
OMIGSA attracted more than R8 billion into social During 2010, the Nordic business focused on infrastructure investment.
Responsible funds are building distribution and product offerings, an important part of our commitment to helping increasing efficiency and optimising its structures build South African infrastructure and increase jobs and risk frameworks.
The management team was for all parts of society.
strengthened and a new CEO appointed.
Mexico saw growth of 36% due to the introduction 2011 is a critical year for Nordic as it focuses on of a regular premium savings product in the first delivering its cost savings target of 10 million per half of the year.
In China, our joint venture with annum.
The cost of delivering these savings is Guodian had a strong year with APE sales up 77% likely to have a negative impact on the profitability to CNY163 million in 2010, following a new channel of the business in the coming year.
management will continue to focus on driving sales, increasing margins and delivering an We have set a target for our profits from our rest of improved distribution and product offering for the African insurance operations to be the equivalent future development of the businesses in a rapidly of 10% of our South African profits by 2012, and changing marketplace.
The economic outlook for 15% by 2015.
To do this, we will leverage our the year is positive across all the geographies and experience and knowledge of the mass market we expect the Nordic savings markets to grow, sector in South Africa to grow our distribution albeit in a more competitive and fragmented channels through tied-agents and bancassurance market environment.
We will also look to exploit new channels as they are established.
LTS: Retail Europe For example, in Kenya we have seen initial success Retail Europe delivered a very positive performance in in distribution through mobile phones.
2010, in the context of GDP growth in all its markets.
Equity markets were up, with the DAX showing a 16% We see other opportunities for growth in Africa, gain for the year.
profits for Retail Europe were up but remain mindful of our strict criteria for 140% on the prior year, with APE sales up 7% and investment and any expansion must be within mutual funds at.
26 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Retail Europe continued to focus on building an channels, versus 6.4% in the fourth quarter in integrated organisation and reducing operating 2009.
Skandia Investment Groups SIG Spectrum costs.
As part of the focus on costs, IT and client risk-targeted funds had a successful year with administration services for Retail Europe are being funds under management at more than 750 transferred to South Africa.
One-off costs million with the funds now available on all the major associated with the transfer will impact profitability IFA platforms in the UK.
SIG also provided the in 2011, before the benets start to come through technical expertise to allow the Nordic business to in 2012. launch its own risk-targeted funds, based on the Spectrum concept, into Sweden.
The uplift in sales was driven by new product launches in Germany, Poland and Switzerland.
We During 2011, Wealth Management will continue to also improved our marketing and sales drives to focus on cost reduction, improving efficiency and customers and built strong, more fruitful meeting its 2012 targets, increasing risk controls relationships with our distributors in 2010 and and improving the functionality of the platform and these proved to be significant drivers of the the richness of the product offering.
We are seeing businesss improved profits.
an increasing demand from customers for products and services that are focused on their needs, are easy to understand and do not rely on heavy up-front commission to drive sales and with the forthcoming Retail Distribution Review, governments having to roll-back state retirement provision and the corresponding need for personal 4.0p retirement savings, our Wealth Management Total dividend for 2010 1.5p in 2009 business is well placed to meet customer demand.
We plan for the platform to add to the profits of the Wealth Management business in 2012.
Macro-economic factors will continue to inuence the business in 2011.
Positive equity and bond Nedbank market performances will raise consumer Household nances improved in South Africa as confidence although we expect there to be debt started to reduce and interest rates eased to continued concern over unemployment levels.
the lowest levels in 36 years.
The recovery in the We have a programme of product innovation for credit cycle has proved to be more modest the markets in Germany and Poland which should compared to previous cycles.
The ratio of underpin growth in these attractive markets.
household debt to disposable income reduced marginally and at the same time debt service levels LTS: Wealth Management decreased to 7.5% and are now at a level that is This has been a significant year for Wealth more conducive to improving economic growth in Management.
APE sales were up 19%, and it the consumer sector.
In the corporate sector, delivered an 86% growth in profit, driven by excess capacity and uncertainty over the delivery of 35 million of run-rate savings, against sustainability of the local and global recovery its 2012 target of 45 million.
Investor confidence was boosted by the return to Nedbank showed solid earnings growth in a growth in equity markets which led to increased challenging economic environment.
Headline funds under management in all of our businesses.
earnings increased by 15% to R4,900 million, In the UK, we saw a continuation of the trend of and non-interest revenue increased 11% to IFAs converting to platform sales, for both R13.2 billion.
Net interest income increased 2% wrapped and unwrapped sales.
particularly noticeable in the first half as IFAs moved large blocks of business on to our platform ahead of the tax year-end.
Skandias market share in the UK continued to grow, and at the end of the third quarter we had captured 7.4% of all industry Old Mutual plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Nedbanks credit loss ratio improved to 1.36% for US Asset Management USAM 2010, its liquidity position remains sound and its USAM profits improved 4% over 2009 due capital ratios remain above target levels.
The primarily to higher average FUM.
We saw net Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 11.7% marginally inows into xed income products, which were improved from that at 31 December 2009, and offset by outows from equity, alternative and the total capital adequacy ratio ended the period stable value products leading to an overall negative at 15.0%.
During the recent market dislocation, a number of our afliates Nedbank is a strongly performing business and underperformed in certain of their strategies, but a significant contributor to the Group.
We have we are confident that they will deliver a clear strategy for growth with the key thrusts outperformance in time.
Echo Point began being the repositioning of Nedbank retail, growing operating as a USAM afliate in October launching non-interest revenue, focusing on areas that yield with $1.7 billion funds under management in higher economic profit and increased focus on international growth equities.
Non-US clients represented more than a quarter of total funds under management and a key objective for us is to grow and diversify this base.
We have expanded our global distribution through the hiring of new staff and we are expanding our distribution 20% presence in the Middle East, resulting in US Asset Management now operating out of 13 countries.
EPS up 20% constant currency basis Growing the international element for US Asset Management is a priority for the business and we continue to work toward improving our margin with Mutual & Federal a target of 25-30% by the end of 2012 and 2010 was a good year for Mutual & Federal with improving investment performance.
profits up 27% and a strong underwriting performance following the cancellation of unprofitable Peter Bain has been appointed CEO of US Asset business, a relatively benign claims environment and Management.
Peter has a proven track record in a greater focus on claims cost control.
growing a boutique asset management company and his appointment is a key milestone for the US During 2010, we introduced the step-change Asset Management business as we look to grow programme at M&F.
Peter Todd has been the business.
appointed as Managing Director of M&F and will drive the delivery of the step-change programme We believe in our boutique model, with its 18 over the next three years.
The objectives of the afliates and 160 investment strategies.
As investor programme are to embed profitable and sound confidence improves, and with our extensive underwriting: to develop better products: to be diversied product portfolio including non-US more customer-focused: grow our customer base equity exposure, we believe we have the by offering the right distribution models: and opportunity to capture a share of these ows.
As part of the step-change programme, we aim to improve profitability through We continue to explore the possibility of a partial growth in the direct and broker channels and IPO by the end of 2012. through the reduction of claims costs and expenses.
During the year, we entered the direct insurance channel via iWYZE, the joint initiative with OMSA.
This is the first step in extracting greater value from M&Fs position within the Old Mutual Group following the buy-out of minorities.
With its strong balance sheet and increased focus on alternative distribution channels, we are confident that we can grow revenue while improving our expense ratios.
28 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Dividend The Board has considered the position in respect of a final dividend for year ended 31 December 2010, and is recommending a final dividend of 2.9p per share or its equivalent in other currencies.
This makes a total dividend payment for the year of 4.0p compared to 1.5p in the previous year.
A scrip alternative will be offered to eligible shareholders.
South African Empowerment In South Africa in 2010, OMSA achieved and Nedbank maintained a Level 2 rating status and Mutual & Federal a Level 3 rating status as BBBEE contributors.
Outlook We have made some significant operational progress and we expect 2011 to be a year of further delivery.
We are committed to our three-year strategy and meeting our stated operational targets.
Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive 8 March 2011 Old Mutual plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
