The underlying operating profits of these business segments are detailed fully in Appendix B to the annual report and are summarised below.
2010 2009 m m Underlying operating profit First Mortgages 50.6 44.7 Consumer Finance 15.5 0.6 66.1 45.3 An improvement in margins earned on loans to customers was The charge for impairment provisions of 39.2 million was 40.5% offset by a 4.3% reduction in the size of the book during the year lower than the charge of 65.9 million for 2009 note 17, and by the lower level of interest earned on cash balances as a reflecting an improvement in arrears performance.
Low interest consequence of lower LIBOR rates over the year.
As a result, net rates have increased affordability for customers, reducing the interest income decreased by 1.0% to 133.4 million from incidence of new arrears and assisting the correction of past 134.8 million in the previous year.
The loan books continue to be carefully managed and 2009: 94.1% of the Groups loan assets were first mortgages.
credit performance remains in line with our expectations.
Other operating income was 14.5 million for the year, compared Gains on debt repurchases of 5.7 million 2009: 18.4 million with 16.0 million in 2009, increased income from third party are detailed under Strategic Developments, below.
account servicing being offset by lower levels of commissions and fees associated with reduced lending activity and reduced Net hedging instrument fair value movements for the year were insurance commissions.
In prior years gains and losses on hedging instrument fair values, which do not affect cash flow, Operating expenses during the year were 8.4% higher at have arisen from the IFRS requirement that movements in the fair 42.6 million 2009: 39.3 million.
The increase is due to staff value of hedging instruments attributable to ineffectiveness in the costs, following the recruitment of staff for the third party loan hedging arrangements should be credited or charged to income servicing business and to support the return to new lending.
cost:income ratio was in line with expectations at 28.8% for the year, compared with 26.1% for the previous year Appendix A Cash generation from the Groups securitisation vehicle reflecting both the reduction in income referred to above and the companies has remained strong over the period, with free cash increase in servicing activities, where the cost:income ratio is balances increasing to 147.8 million at 30 September 2010 from higher than for lending activities.
84.0 million a year earlier, after the payment of 20.7 million for the purchase of a first mortgage portfolio in September 2010.
Corporation tax has been charged at an effective tax rate of 24.9%, compared to 24.3% last year.
Profits after taxation of 53.9 million 2009: 41.1 million have Strong demand for been transferred to shareholders funds, which totalled 692.3 million at the year-end 2009: 650.8 million, private renting representing 234p per share 2009: 221p per share Appendix C. Landlords are witnessing very high levels of rental demand, strong rental growth and low finance costs.
8 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC BUSINESS REVIEW NEW BUSINESS VOLUMES Year ended 30 September 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m Number Number First Mortgages Buy-to-let 14.6 25.2 254 487 Consumer Finance Secured lending 0.5 60.4 34 2,119 15.1 85.6 288 2,606 landlord and forward the rent collected to the lender.
This is a First Mortgages flexible tool that can allow a borrower an opportunity to work his or her way through a period of difficulty whilst the receiver The most significant development in the First Mortgage business ensures that the property and the tenant are managed during the year was the return to new lending following the professionally and that value is protected.
At 30 September 2010 signing of a 200.0 million warehouse facility in September 2010. there were 1,398 properties across all portfolios where a receiver The Groups aim is to re-establish its position as the leading had been appointed 30 September 2009: 1,420.
Of those mortgage lender to experienced professional landlords, available for letting, 93.5% were let.
extended, where appropriate to other areas of buy-to-let service provision in the private rented sector.
The initial focus of activity Landlords continue to display a long-term commitment to is towards the re-establishment of distribution arrangements.
property investment and the buy-to-let portfolio redemption rate Completed loan business will naturally flow from this roll-out after has fallen to 3.0% for the year 2009: 7.1%.
Landlords are the normal mortgage lead-in times and the level of applications witnessing very high levels of rental demand, strong rental received since September has been encouraging.
growth and low finance costs.
With limited availability of alternative, competitively priced, buy-to-let products, customer At 30 September 2010, the buy-to-let portfolio was retention levels are likely to remain high.
8,323.9 million, compared with 8,585.0 million a year earlier.
From the end of February 2008 until the recommencement of new Activity in the housing market remains subdued due, in part, to lending, new business origination by the Groups buy-to-let continuing tight credit conditions.
The effect on the private brands, Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust, had been rented sector, however, has been to maintain high levels of tenant restricted to further advances to existing borrowers where there demand.
The low level of purchase transactions means that is adequate equity in the property.
Aggregate completions of would-be home buyers are renting in larger numbers and for such loans were 14.6 million for the year ended 30 September longer periods.
The latest RICS Residential Lettings Survey 2010, compared with 25.2 million for the previous year.
confirmed that tenant demand remains high, creating upward pressure on rents.
A similar picture is painted by The Association The credit performance of the Groups buy-to-let mortgages over of Residential Letting Agents, whose members reported the year as a whole has again been exemplary.
Those cases that increased achievable rents at the end of the third quarter.
The have gone into arrears have, for the most part, responded well to latest data, for September 2010, from Findaproperty.
com shows the careful management that our specialist arrears team rents increasing by 1.4% in the third quarter, with rental prices at have supplied.
At the year end Paragons three month plus their highest since the Autumn of 2008. arrears in buy-to-let excluding the portfolio acquired on 30 September 2010 stood at 0.83%, compared with the market The constraints impacting on the owner-occupier sector seem average of 2.45% as recorded by the CML.
likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
At the same time there appears to be little likelihood of significant public funding Where an account is not responding well to the normal arrears being made available to support the social rented sector.
As a management processes a receiver of rent may be appointed.
The result, the demand for private renting is expected to remain high.
function of the receiver is to manage the property on behalf of the The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 9 The owner-occupied book reduced to 151.7 million from There is uncertainty as to whether buy-to-let lending will become 179.3 million during the year ended 30 September 2010 and regulated, although secured consumer lending is expected to be performed in line with the Groups expectations.
Save for the FSA regulated in due course.
management of this book in run-off, there has been little activity in recent years in this area as the Group has focused on other We continue to engage with government bodies regarding the lending markets.
future course of regulatory processes and participated in the consultation on possible revised prudential and conduct of business obligations for non-bank lenders.
We shall maintain an Consumer Finance active dialogue with the FSA and HM Treasury as the process of consultation develops.
Lending during the period has been limited to a small number of further advances to existing customers.
At 30 September 2010, the total loans outstanding on the Consumer Finance books STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS were 435.6 million, compared with 550.0 million at 30 September 2009, the redemption rate being kept low by the Last year we reported on the specific areas of strategic focus for shortage of alternative offerings in the market, as a result of lack the generation of new sources of income to enhance shareholder of funding, and by the low level of housing activity.
value, these being the acquisition of loan portfolios through Idem Capital, the servicing of third party loan portfolios through The percentage of accounts with arrears of two months and over Moorgate Loan Servicing and Arden Credit Management and the on the secured loan book has increased from 7.94% at expansion of products and services for existing customers.
Good 30 September 2009 to 9.36% at 30 September 2010, reflecting progress has been made in these areas.
both the effects of economic conditions on borrower performance and the contraction in the size of the portfolio.
The arrears performance compares favourably with the industry data Idem Capital recorded by the Finance & Leasing Association FLA of 24.4% 2009: 19.8%.
The portfolio of second mortgages purchased in September 2009 has performed well during the year and in September 2010 we acquired a further portfolio, consisting of buy-to-let loans, from REGULATION Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited for 20.7 million.
The full transfer of the servicing of these loans to our systems has There has been an increasing trend towards greater regulation in been completed.
The Group has a long and established track the financial sector, which is likely to continue for the foreseeable record in acquiring loan portfolios and successfully transferring future.
Paragon is not directly affected by many of these changes, the loan servicing in-house and managing the books although the consequences of changing market conditions can effectively thereafter.
Basel III does not apply to the Group although its wider implications for the banking sector The Group has acquired some 3 billion of loan portfolios in the are uncertain.
past across a range of asset classes.
We continue to believe that a number of portfolios owned by banks and other financial institutions will become available for sale as these institutions fideleverage and restructure their balance sheets.
We see this as an important strategic opportunity, with the potential to deliver excellent returns to shareholders and we will continue to pursue opportunities in this area.
Portfolio acquisitions The Group has a long and established track record in acquiring loan portfolios and successfully transferring the loan servicing in-house and managing the books effectively thereafter.
10 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Moorgate Loan Servicing FUNDING As previously reported, the Group entered into a 200.0 million Good progress has been made with the development of third revolving warehouse agreement with Macquarie Bank in party loan servicing through Moorgate Loan Servicing and its September, providing the warehouse funding for the division, Arden Credit Management, which utilises our core recommencement of buy-to-let lending.
The facility, to be rated administration and collection skills.
Our experience in loan by Fitch Ratings, is available for a four year term to Paragon Fourth management established over many years has enabled us to Funding Limited, a 100% owned subsidiary, and interest will be extend this service to our third party clients, providing significant charged on the amount drawn at one month LIBOR plus 2.875%.
added value to the performance of their loan portfolios.
Arden The Groups intention is to use the facility to warehouse loans Credit Management assumed servicing of a further 15,000 prior to arranging term funding in the mortgage backed accounts during the year with the result that 54.3% of accounts securitisation markets.
Consequently, the facility is structured to under management by the Group at 30 September 2010 were permit drawings and re-drawings in its first two years.
The Group managed on behalf of third parties.
We believe increasing continues to engage in a dialogue with other potential opportunities will arise over the coming years, particularly as counterparties to expand the warehouse funding available.
portfolio disposals take place as part of the wider banking fide-leveraging process.
During the year the Group has engaged with bond investors in the UK and in Europe to update investors on the Groups progress and to determine market appetite for new Paragon debt The range of services we offer to the private rented sector under securities.
Taking account of the positive feedback received from our Redbrick brand, which include the provision of energy investors and the improvement seen during the course of the past performance certificates, survey and valuation services, specialist year in both the primary and secondary securitisation markets, the insurance services for landlords and tenant credit checks and Group continues to focus on securitisation issuance as assessments, continued to be developed during the year and we offering the most cost-effective access to long-term funding for have been encouraged by the growth in business levels in new lending.
The activities of Idem Capital and Moorgate Loan Servicing CONCLUSION contributed 4.9 million to operating profit 2009: 1.4 million during the financial year.
The Group has made excellent progress during the year, materially increasing profits, witnessing further growth in its new In addition, following the buyback of 37.7 million nominal of ventures and importantly securing funding to support the Group debt during the year ended 30 September 2009 at a cost relaunch back into new buy-to-let lending.
We fully expect that of 18.9 million, we invested a further 8.3 million during the our new lending programme will expand over time and will be period in the purchase of 14.0 million nominal of the Groups complemented by increasing opportunities to acquire loan securitisation debt, creating an exceptional profit of 5.7 million.
portfolios and take on new servicing contracts, all of which should The scope for further purchases is limited as increased bond provide the basis for continued growth in shareholder value.
The prices now make further transactions less attractive.
Groups financial position is strong, leaving us well placed to deal with the economys uncertainties and to exploit the opportunities ahead.
NIGEL S TERRINGTON Chief Executive 24 November 2010 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 11 Board of Directors Robert G Dench Chairman Age 60 Bob Dench joined the Group as a non-executive director in September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and AXA Ireland Limited.
Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive Age 50 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, he worked in investment banking.
He has previously held the positions of Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association, Chairman of the FLA Consumer Finance Division and a Board member of the FLA.
He is a member of the Chairmans Committee and Executive Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
He is also currently a member of HM Treasurys Home Finance Forum.
Nicholas Keen Finance Director Age 52 Nick Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
John A Heron Director of Mortgages Age 51 John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of Paragon Mortgages.
Mr Heron joined the board in 2003 and is responsible for the development of all the Group's new business operations.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and holds a number of industry positions including the chair of the CML buy-to-let panel.
12 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
