12 Business review and management report: Chief executives review Taking our cue from our customers For most of 2010, people on lower incomes were quite rightly anxious about the sustainability of their household finances as well as the threat from cuts in Government spending.
Given this difficult context, it is satisfying to be able to report on another year of progress.
We have grown customer numbers, increased profits and managed risk.
Peter Crook We have done all that by listening carefully to our Chief Executive customers and lending responsibly.
We continue to scale up our credit card business results to realise its economies of scale.
The significant I am very pleased to report that the group delivered 144.5m market potential of Vanquis Bank is evident from an excellent set of results in 2010 with profit before Group profit before tax its rapid growth and the business is already tax and exceptional costs up 14.4m to 144.5m, and exceptional costs generating more than enough capital to fund and earnings per share, before exceptional costs, its own growth and contribute to the groups up 10.1% to 78.6p.
Vanquis Banks next milestone is to grow its receivables book to 450m by the end 10.1% We have delivered these strong results despite the of 2012 whilst maintaining a post-tax return challenging economic environment, characterised Growth in EPS before on equity of 30%.
There is every reason to by a weak employment market and rising inflation exceptional costs expect that it will double its customer base which has put increasing pressure on our customers in the medium term.
The fact that we have continued to trade successfully is testament to the focus on our clear strategy developed at the time we demerged our Our strategy of developing businesses which international business in 2007, the quality of our generate strong returns on capital underpins people and reflects the inherent characteristics our generous dividend policy which aims to of our businesses which make them more resilient distribute 80% of our profits in the form of than other business models.
In addition, we maintain a strong balance sheet and prudent funding.
Our business strategy model is based upon borrowing long and lending Our mission is straightforward it is to be the short and maintaining a diverse funding base.
1.25 times leading non-standard lender in the UK and Ireland, Our target gearing ratio is 3.5 times, comfortably acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing inside our banking covenant of 5.0 times.
Target dividend cover a positive role in the communities we serve.
Our leading positions in both the Home Credit As we have been saying for some time, the UK and non-standard credit card markets provide 3.5 times non-standard market is increasingly becoming the a very good base from which to deliver a domain of specialist lenders.
Many lenders who have strong performance as the economy recovers.
Target gearing ratio operated in this market have either failed, withdrawn or restructured, whilst Provident Financial has learning from our customers continued to deliver high returns in the small-sum The stability and soundness of our business unsecured segment of the market.
The key to this models is rooted in our intimate understanding success is to understand the customer and build of our customers.
Unlike most mainstream credit a business model to meet their needs whilst organisations, we make a point of keeping close maintaining responsible lending at its foundation.
to our customers from the moment they request a loan to final repayment.
Our strategy is centred on the organic growth of high return on equity businesses: We do not attempt, and would not wish, to invent complex products that are superficially attractive.
Having modernised the Home Credit business over Transparency is one of the great strengths of our the past three years, we plan to continue to expand business model and one reason for our resilience.
the operation by attracting new customers, increasing our share of customers financial purchases and broadening the product range.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 13 What we do is really very simple.
We provide small Governments austerity measures will not have amounts of money to help ordinary people on a significant impact on the future development lower than average incomes get on with their of the business.
lives and participate in society.
Vanquis Bank We work hard to get to know our customers well and Vanquis Bank delivered an excellent result in 2010, build productive relationships with them.
We seek to growing profits by 12.6m to 26.7m.
The business learn from them so that we can meet their particular recently passed the original objective, set at the needs at every stage of the lending cycle.
time of the demerger, to serve 500,000 customers, with receivables of 300m and delivering a post-tax our businesses return on equity of 30%.
The business is now Consumer Credit Division generating more than enough capital to fund its The Consumer Credit Division has produced a own growth and contribute to the groups dividends.
resilient performance through the downturn.
In 2010, Home Credit delivered profits of 129.1m, Because of the successful progress of Vanquis Bank, mIssIon up 0.2m on 2009, benefiting from the close at the start of 2010 we set ourselves new targets of attention to yield, impairment and costs during achieving 450m receivables, generating a post-tax The group aims a period of modest receivables growth.
In addition, return on equity of 30% by the end of 2012.
It is to be the leading the losses associated with the collect-out of the Real important to note that these new targets assume non-standard lender Personal Finance receivables book reduced from similar receivables growth to that achieved over the in the UK and Ireland.
7.7m in 2009 to 1.8m in 2010, all of which arose last two years, no changes to our tight underwriting in the first half of the year.
stance and a prudent view of the economic outlook.
It has adopted a clear strategy to A continuation of increasing underemployment in The non-standard credit card market remains achieve this.
2010 has meant that some of our customers have significantly under-served with Vanquis Bank as the been working fewer hours than they would have most active participant.
Our success in 2010 means The group has adopted wished, resulting in pressure on their household that we are well placed to deliver on our new targets key performance incomes.
Add to this increasing inflation and the and, in due course, Vanquis Bank has a significant indicators KPIs months of uncertainty leading up to the Governments opportunity to grow beyond its current targets.
to assess progress Spending Review in October 2010 and it is not against each of its surprising that for the first nine months of the year, looking ahead strategic objectives, some customers reduced their spending and did The UK and Ireland non-standard credit market including both not take out a loan when they normally might have currently comprises over 10 million people and is financial and done.
However, it is encouraging to report that expected to grow modestly in 2011 and beyond.
market conditions for Home Credit improved in the It is our aim to remain the leading lender in this non-financial last quarter of the year, demonstrated by a strong market and I am confident that we have the right measures.
It is clear that our customers do not model, people and resources to bring that about.
feel that the austerity measures announced by the These are helpful in Government impact their finances as significantly as We are building sustainable market share by listening assessing progress they thought they might and they are also feeling carefully to our customers, responding to their needs but not exhaustive.
more certain about their future incomes.
Once and by building on our reputation as a responsible Management also again, our strong focus on collections paid off in corporate citizen.
takes account of 2010 with impairment remaining stable before other measures edging down towards the end of the year.
Provident Financials future prospects are attractive: in assessing performance.
Strategic The performance in 2010, particularly in the last Provident Financial has a long track record of aims and KPIs are quarter, leaves the Consumer Credit Division successfully operating in the non-standard market poised to deliver good quality growth and take which will remain the domain of specialists.
advantage of a recovery in economic conditions.
We have an attractive business model with The modernisation programme which started in businesses that are well managed and inherently 2007 is now complete and the business is fully more resilient through difficult market conditions.
We now have improved IT systems, use We have a fully invested and modernised Home better credit science and have developed more Credit business with the capacity to serve channels to market such as direct mail and the increased demand as the economy recovers.
Our investment in the field force to We continue to generate strong profitable and improve spans of control has helped us to manage now capital generative growth in Vanquis Bank impairment during these tough times and gives and we expect further improvement as growth us additional capacity as the economy recovers.
generates additional economies of scale.
Our businesses generate high returns and are The modernisation programme has allowed us to very capital-generative, supporting a high and grow our customer numbers by nearly 20% since the sustainable distribution policy.
We will continue to focus on serving We have a strong balance sheet and a prudent those existing customers who have the available funding structure.
headroom to borrow and whom we know well.
However, we also believe our target market is The group has performed very well in 2010. growing as the temporary, part-time and casual I am confident that we can continue to deliver labour market is growing and banks continue to on our strategy and deliver good returns for restrict credit which will allow us to grow our our shareholders.
In order to align the weekly Home Credit business with We will maintain our tight stance on underwriting the groups financial year, and our investment in collections capacity.
Peter Crook Home Credits 2010 We are also confident that the impact from the Chief Executive financial year includes 53 weeks compared with 1 March 2011 52 weeks in 2009.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
