Chief Executives statement Key highlights Financial performance In spite of the continuing uncertain economic In spite of the overall turmoil in financial climate, 2010 has been a better year than markets, it would appear that 2008 saw the 2009.
We have gained a significant amount market and economic low point and 2010 of new business and at the end of the year showed some signs of resilience and recovery our total funds under management exceeded both in stock market terms and in the 15 billion, a notable milestone.
With the health of underlying companies.
Our overall FTSE 100 Index ending the year at 5900 and operating income grew by 8.9% to strong commission figures, especially in the 127.2 million 2009: 116.8 million as fees second half of the year, we produced a profit and commissions benefited from stronger before tax of 30.1 million from continuing markets and the growth in funds under operations 2009: 29.5 million.
As anticipated our net interest income remains low and, although there is an As a result of the 2009 transaction with expectation that interest rates will increase, Lloyds Banking Group more than 3,000 the timing remains uncertain.
The overall level clients joined us during 2010 contributing of the market is one of the most important to a total net growth rate for our core drivers of our income line and on our four investment management business of 10.2% charging dates in 2010 the FTSE 100 Index 2009: 12.5%.
The acquisition of teams and Andy Pomfret was on average 17.5% higher than on the Chief Executive corporate businesses are important for our same dates in 2009. growth but I have often said that the best growth is net organic growth, where our We continue to manage our cost base existing Investment Managers gain new carefully whilst at the same time seeking clients or attract new business from existing to invest in medium and long term growth clients.
This net organic growth figure was a opportunities for the business.
expenses excluding contribution to the This figure takes account of the withdrawal Financial Services Compensation Scheme of cash from client portfolios: in the first half FSCS, intangible asset amortisation and there were signs that clients required cash transaction costs were 88.7 million, up to compensate for lower income earned on 5.2% 2009: 84.3 million.
Much of this cost their investments: this reduced over the increase related to newly acquired investment second half.
We continue to consider how teams, office costs including those arising we can improve and increase our net organic from office moves in Edinburgh and growth rate.
Cambridge, and the costs of additional projects.
After two years of very tight salary Mike Webb took over as Chief Executive of cost controls, from January 2011 we have our unit trust business Rathbone Unit Trust awarded salary increases of 4% overall, Management on 1 April 2010.
This business rewarding our staff who have worked so has developed well since and now has hard in a very difficult economic environment.
1.04 billion of funds under management Many of them had rises either well below and a much improved short term track record inflation or zero over the last two years.
Indeed at 31 December 2010, all IMA ranked funds were in the top quartile We are aware that in recent years our overall for performance over the one year period.
income as a percentage of funds under The three year track record is the most management has reduced below that of many important in obtaining net sales and it will of our competitors.
We have consequently take time to rebuild this: however, it has been reviewed our investment management encouraging to see a significant decline in charging structure and are making changes the level of net redemptions.
We are now which will come into effect from 6 April 2011. turning our attention to gaining net sales in This is always a difficult and sensitive area but 2011 and investing in this area.
we believe it is fair that clients should face small increases for the premium service that We have continued to invest to improve our they receive.
We expect these increases to infrastructure, the service to clients and our add approximately 3 4 basis points to our overall efficiency.
We have also had to average net operating basis point return increase the amount we invest in coping with 85bps for 2010, 95bps for 2009 on an regulatory change.
Even simple changes can annualised basis.
have a significant effect on our systems, for example when CGT rates are changed part The financial impact of FSCS levies which way through the year as happened in 2010. arise from other industry failures is wholly outside our control.
The interim levy of Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook Rathbone Brothers Plc 3 Chief Executives statement Report and accounts 2010 Financial performance continued commission, which we have long viewed as an opaque means of charging the client 3.2 million arising from the failure of and which, in our view, does not treat clients Keydata Investment Services Limited and fairly.
We continue to believe that our bespoke other intermediaries announced in January service offering, where a client deals directly 2011 is unwelcome and adds to the with an investment professional, is one that 0.4 million we had already anticipated sets us apart and enhances our role of trusted resulting in a 3.6 million charge for the year adviser to our clients.
We will be keeping a very close eye on future developments Last year I highlighted our development of and how costs have been shared across the Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolio Service.
These funds particularly appeal to IFAs and their clients and have continued to grow well 2010 has also seen the full year impact of now standing at 73.6 million of funds the amortisation of the intangible assets that under management 2009: 40.7 million.
arose as part of our Lloyds Banking Group We also continue to develop our panel transaction at the end of 2009.
this largely resulted in the charge associated with client relationship intangibles growing to Our charities business has benefited from 4.8 million in 2010 2009: 2.0 million.
some more focused marketing spend.
We held our first Charity Symposium in the autumn of Marketing and business development 2010 at the Royal Society with over 220 attendees.
We look forward to growing this During 2010 we have reviewed our part of our business further in 2011.
It now marketing and business development activity.
has some 1.63 billion 2009: 1.39 billion We are aiming to focus our resources on of funds under management.
those target segments of the market where we have significant presence and feel we We continue to improve our overall offer compelling solutions for clients.
The role investment process and the ways we of Independent Financial Advisers IFAs is present this to both the end clients and to increasingly important in referring business the increasingly important intermediary clients.
We are now focusing our efforts on The proliferation of complex investment a number of IFA firms where we wish to products means we are spending more on develop sustainable strategic relationships research to ensure our Investment Managers and are also targeting a number of chartered have the widest possible investment choice financial planners who we believe will for private clients and charities.
We will be have a significant requirement to introduce investing further in 2011.
Our asset allocation discretionary investment managers to process prompts Investment Managers their clients.
to look at portfolio diversification which has helped them manage client funds in The impact of the Retail Distribution Review volatile markets.
The way the central RDR, which comes into force on 1 January investment process is communicated to 2013, has been much debated.
Despite Investment Managers across the country considerable industry consultation the rules has also been improved.
as currently drafted do not reflect fully the business that we are in, namely providing a Treasury and financing service to a client rather than selling a product to a customer.
Although some changes will During the year we undertook a major review be inevitable the RDR will not significantly of our banking licence to establish whether impact our business strategy.
The effects on it was sensible to retain it in the light of the IFA community are expected to be more changing regulation and public perception profound and many IFAs will be unable to, of banks.
This was an extensive exercise or will not wish to, provide the bespoke which took account of the views of our discretionary investment management service Investment Managers, clients, investors, that is our core business.
We consider that regulators and the external views of our offering may well provide a helpful competitors and consultants.
In order to take advantage of this was that the banking regime in its current opportunity we will be investing more in our form remains attractive compared to the relationships with IFAs over the next year and client money alternative and that, in a normal developing our web portals for intermediaries.
interest rate environment, the interest margin we would achieve more than outweighs the We support the main principles of the costs of regulation.
Indeed we found there RDR which will increase the professionalism to be few savings in moving to a client money of advisers and reduce the use of trail Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 4 Chief Executives statement Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook Treasury and financing continued We have moved to a new office in St Andrew Square in Edinburgh replacing regime.
However, we are also well prepared what had become a cramped and dated office.
should we need to surrender it in future Edinburgh is our second largest office due to materially adverse changes in measured by funds under management and regulation or capital requirements.
is now in an appropriate home in an historic Overall client cash levels remain static and location.
We have also taken more space were 0.76 billion at the end of 2010 in Liverpool to cope with the growing 2009: 0.77 billion.
Our treasury policy business and in November 2010 we moved remains cautious and we are consistently our Cambridge office due to the expiry seeking ways to avoid exposure to the more of the lease on our old premises.
In 2011 troubled countries in the Eurozone and the we anticipate finalising arrangements for more troubled banks.
The level of loans made our London office: in the event of a move, to clients increased to 40.0 million at the this may result in additional costs in 2011 end of 2010 2009: 26.7 million.
These associated with any period of double loans are generally secured against the value occupation and the moving costs themselves.
of the portfolio that we manage and are often seen by clients as a very attractive Regulation way of obtaining reasonably priced bridging These days no report is complete without finance for a house move.
some comments on the level of regulation Our pension scheme deficits have been with which we must comply.
Aside from very volatile over the last year and at the the significant FSCS levies we have been end of 2010 were 6.6 million compared charged, over the year we have also looked to 9.4 million at 31 December 2009 but hard at the bank payroll tax which did not were 15.7 million at 30 June 2010.
Our impact us, the possible impact of a bank committed contributions to the schemes are levy again no impact due to our size, new 21.2 million over the next seven years and rules on capital, liquidity management and there is a triennial valuation due in 2011. reporting and the RDR.
There are also changes in corporate governance and the Our external borrowings were only way we monitor and report risk.
We are 3.1 million at 31 December 2010 currently dealing with consultation papers on 2009: 6.2 million so the business is the way we should structure remuneration for effectively ungeared.
Our Group Tier 1 the more highly paid client facing staff and capital ratio is 28.3% at 31 December 2010 what we must disclose about it.
None of these 2009: 36.3% on a Basel III basis, present fundamental problems or challenges indicating the strength of our capital base.
to our business model but they do cost us In 2010 we established an insurance either directly or indirectly, in management cell with Harlequin Insurance PCC to provide time, or through higher systems and additional cover against professional processes expenditure, which may ultimately indemnity risks.
This held net assets of be passed on to clients.
Outlook Investing in our business We have ended 2010 in a better position We have been looking hard at investment than 2009 with a larger business and positive to drive our development.
Some of the areas markets.
We will be investing in our business we have been working on and which we will at an increased rate in 2011 in order to progress in 2011 relate to improving our take advantage of some clear opportunities business efficiency, such as making contract and to grow the business further.
I would notes optional for clients, upgrading our tax like to thank all staff who have worked so packs and significant work rewriting all of hard over the last year to make the business our primary client documentation.
Their experience and improved the way we deal and consolidated professionalism make us well placed to our dealing activities into our Liverpool office take advantage of the challenges ahead.
which has enhanced our settlement efficiency.
We have also formalised the way our staff Andy Pomfret can work remotely, bearing in mind the ever Chief Executive present need for security of client data and 16 February 2011 for control over the way we deal.
Key highlights Financial performance Marketing and business development Treasury and financing Investing in our business Regulation Outlook Rathbone Brothers Plc 5 Chief Executives statement Report and accounts 2010
