Group Chief Executives review Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive Our goals Our overriding focus is on achieving three things: Watch or listen to d to serve customers well: Stephen Hester at www.
com AnnualReport to restore the Bank to undoubted standalone strength: and M For biographies to rebuild sustainable value for all shareholders, and in so doing to see pages 226-229 enable the UK Government to sell its holding profitably over time.
Strategy RBSs strategy, announced in 2009, remains our best route to achieving these goals.
It is serving us well in meeting the twin challenges of continuing change in our external environment and the need for radical internal restructuring at RBS.
The new RBS is built upon customer franchises with substantial competitive strengths in their respective markets, our Core businesses.
Each is being reshaped to provide improved and enduring performance.
The Core businesses all generate strong value in their own right, and a still stronger, balanced and more valuable mix together.
The business shape and new management disciplines we are establishing can drive RBS to success as a leading bank in its markets for many years to come.
The weaknesses uncovered by the financial crisis of leverage, risk concentration and business stretch are being fixed.
The successful and continuing run-down and sale of assets which weakened us, or businesses where we have no competitive advantage, illustrates this.
Two years on from the global financial crisis, These assets were placed in our Non-Core Division and give a focus to our recovery is ahead of schedule.
In 2010 we our risk reduction objectives.
We are changing a balance sheet which made big strides in risk reduction and an early could not withstand the crisis and, importantly, the culture that created it.
We have much work 2010 Results against goals still to do and there are significant obstacles 2010 was a year of good progress and the Group is on or ahead of its still to overcome.
We aim for continued published goals for this stage of our Plan.
There have been and still are progress this year.
challenges to face into, whether economic, regulatory or political.
Our resilience to such events is increasing steadily.
Customers: We are completely clear success in serving customers is the key to our business future.
Overdue investment in service, technology and a changing cultural approach is starting to roll out across RBS.
Most of our Core franchises showed gains on a variety of customer measures during the year though we are conscious that much remains to be done.
It will take time for our actions to have full effect, in particular where business restructuring has been most marked.
In each of our retail businesses we have re-energised and invested in our customer offering around the organising thought of helpful banking.
The proposition in each market is tailored to suit local customers: NatWest has Helpful Banking: RBS has Here for You: Citizens has Good Banking is Good Citizenship, and: Ulster Bank has Help For What Matters.
This is supporting improved customer attraction and retention and has resonated positively with staff, customers, and the broader communities we serve.
Risk: Excellent progress has been made on the journey towards bringing RBSs risk profile in line with the highest standards of our industry.
Our funding and liquidity profile is much improved and no longer an outlier for our industry.
Non-Core assets are down a further 63 billion, the loan-to-deposit ratio is 117%, down from 154% at peak and our Core businesses now take in over 1 of deposits for every 1 of loans 4 RBS Group 2010 Essential reading Group Chief Executives review made the gold standard we are targeting.
Improvements in risk The Basel-led process seems likely to get to the right place on bank are also evident through reductions in single name and sectoral safety and there is good progress in the design of bank resolution and credit concentrations.
recapitalisation bail-in mechanisms, which should remove the need for future state capital support.
The impact of these measures materially RBS has strong capital ratios with a Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.7%.
impacts bank costs and return prospects.
These in turn impact cost and The additional protection of the Asset Protection Scheme, as expected, availability of customer service, including credit provision.
There is an is unlikely to be called upon and we target scheme exit by the end important balance to be struck by policy-makers.
of 2012, subject to continued progress on risk reduction and to regulatory approvals.
2011 will be noteworthy in the UK for the conclusion of the Independent Commission on Banking ICB.
The ICB has the opportunity to reflect on Shareholder value: This vital part of our goals is on track but inevitably all of the change under way and to determine if additional measures will take the most time to deliver fully.
The potential is there and the would be beneficial.
There are traps to avoid in areas where UK reform, performance of the Bank will increasingly speak for itself.
2010 results which is not followed elsewhere, might bring more cost than benefit, were a large improvement on 2009 and our budgets for the year.
At hamper banks and the economy and give the illusion of more safety Group level RBS posted 1.9 billion of operating profits, excluding fair without its reality.
The Commissions work is continuing thoughtfully and value of own debt from a 6.1 billion loss in 2009.
It was only after the we are co-operating fully to give insights wherever helpful.
post tax effect of APS 1.1 billion that we reported a net attributable loss of 1.1 billion.
We are taking significant steps toward repaying the Outlook support we have received.
RBS is on track to meet its ambitious goals.
These goals set out the path for our recovery period but also establish the foundations for the The RBS Core business posted operating profits of 7.4 billion and new RBS to enjoy strong and enduring prospects well into the future.
return on equity of 13%, above its cost of capital.
Importantly the For 2011, we target continued progress toward published targets.
We quality of results also improved.
While still significantly impacted by continue to prioritise risk reduction, strengthening of customer service high credit costs, low interest rates and other economic challenges, and building the quality and quantity of Core profits.
our Retail and Commercial businesses increased operating profits by 66% to 3.8 billion with a 10% ROE.
Our Irish bank and our Insurance We are alert to the risks facing our businesses.
In 2010, our results business remained in loss as a result of prior risk exposures which we were accomplished despite eurozone market volatility, additional Irish are working down.
Our investment banking arm, despite tough markets, impairments and higher than expected insurance provisioning.
2011 posted 3.4 billion operating profits and a 17% ROE a competitive will doubtless have its own challenges as the global economic recovery result when compared with peers, though down from the record prior seeks a firmer footing.
Our plans might also face further substantial year.
Adding the related parts of our GTS business gives still stronger impacts from national and international regulatory changes.
returns for our wholesale client activity as a whole.
And, as visible exemplars of the financial crisis, RBS remains vulnerable 2010 results were achieved with strong attention to efficiency beating to public mood.
The journey from problem to opportunity is important our cost targets and allowing vital investment right across the Group to and our progress will aid customer trust, staff stability and investor enhance future growth and business quality.
In that context we hope that the opportunity to sell part of the UK Governments shareholding becomes increasingly visible and In Non-Core progress was also pleasing, though losses will continue appealing a win win for the taxpayer and for RBS.
That moment will in this division during the remaining Plan period as assets are sold be an emblem of our progress and, in some respects, of progress in and run down.
Non-Core assets reduced by 63 billion to 138 billion the wider UK economy.
Losses narrowed sharply though they are still significant.
RBS in 2011 Our goals for 2011 are clear.
External events can still blow us off course People and caution is needed until these clarify.
But for our part, the strategy is Our people are doing a great job in producing the turnaround we delivering.
We are focussing on serving our customers well and better.
have targeted despite great stresses and challenges.
I thank all of We are stripping away excess risk inherited from the past.
We are my colleagues at RBS for this.
building enduring strength and value in the new RBS and supporting the economies we serve.
Our ability to attract, retain and motivate the best people is still not what we want it to be.
Our business challenges and the external In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our staff, our shareholders and environment lead to management compromises that add risk to the other stakeholders for their continued support as we build the new RBS.
achievement of our business goals.
We are working hard to move forward and balance staff motivation with external acceptance that past mistakes have been addressed.
Stephen Hester Group Chief Executive Regulation We support the revolution in regulatory standards that, when complete, and coupled with the dramatic industry changes taking place, will make for a safer financial services industry for everyone.
But a safer economy also needs global macro-economic imbalances to be successfully addressed.
