Our performance Group Chief Executives review Good earnings growth.
Having a strong and resilient business has enabled us to deliver an eighth successive year of earnings and dividend growth, despite diffi cult market conditions, especially in the UK.
John McDonough Group Chief Executive Our continuing success is the result of Early in 2010, we reviewed our strategy for rigorously implementing our strategy for UK construction in anticipation of substantial sustainable profi table growth, an absolute cuts in Government capital investment, commitment to behaving in accordance with which were confi rmed in the Governments our core values and strong risk management.
In May 2010, we announced a strategic re-scaling of Our strategy our UK construction business by tightening To deliver sustainable, profi table growth its focus on delivering integrated solutions through for Public Private Partnership projects and support services customers.
As a result, we growing support services and Public expect to reduce our UK construction revenue Private Partnership PPP projects by around one third, from some 1.8 billion developing and marketing integrated in 2009 to around 1.2 billion over the next solutions tailored to the needs of three years.
This very selective approach will customers, including project fi finance, also help to support margins by enabling us to design and construction, maintenance avoid bidding for lower margin work, as the and lifetime support services and asset UK market is expected to become increasingly management competitive following the Governments maintaining a strong and selective decision to reduce capital investment in real construction capability focused on higher terms by around one third over the next added-value contracts for long-term four years.
customers, especially the delivery of integrated solutions for PPP projects and support services customers.
1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items of 9.0 million 2009: 10.5 million, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net fi financial expense and taxation.
2 Restated on adoption of International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 12.
16 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal operational risks and mitigation Risk Mitigation Continuing to win contracts consistent with Continually seeking to differentiate our offering by reviewing our competitive strategy and our target margins in markets that are more target markets competitive Living our values and listening to our customers in order to develop services that meet their needs Focusing on our effi ciency and cost reduction programmes to remain competitive Managing our pension schemes to ensure that The Groups main defi ned benefi t pension schemes have been closed to future accruals scheme liabilities are within a range appropriate Regularly reviewing our investment policies to ensure that employee and company contributions, to our capital base together with scheme benefi ts, remain appropriate Managing major contracts to ensure they Applying selectivity criteria to ensure we take on contracts only where we understand, and can are delivered on time, to budget and to the manage, the risks involved required standards Applying rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects Applying strong cash management policies and processes to deliver cash-backed profi t Maintaining fi financial discipline Attracting, developing and retaining Developing and implementing leadership, personal development and employee engagement excellent people programmes that encourage and support all our people to achieve their full potential Applying rigorous risk management processes supported by robust business continuity plans Maintaining high standards of performance in respect of security, Health & Safety and An ongoing commitment to Target Zero, our programme to eliminate reportable accidents, other statutory requirements including implementing management systems that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001 Implementing thorough, mandatory staff training programmes Our values We apply our risk management processes to Underlying operating profi t 1 Six core values guide our behaviour in every aspect of our operations, from choosing by reporting segment everything we do and defi ne the culture the geographies in which we operate, our of our business.
market sectors and the contracts for which we bid, to the selection of our customers, 2 22.5m Openness partners and suppliers.
We also apply them 2 Professional delivery to every stage of a contract, from its inception 2009 : 226.3m Collaboration to completion, in order to deliver value for Sustainable profi table growth money services for our customers and the Mutual dependency cash-backed profi t we expect.
Innovation The principal risks affecting the Group are Operational risk management summarised in the table above together with We apply strong operational risk management the measures we are taking to mitigate and policies and processes to identify, mitigate manage these risks.
and manage strategic, Group-wide risks and risks specifi c to our individual business units The effects of our strategy and contracts, including economic, social, Our strategy, supported by strong risk environmental and ethical risks.
management and a commitment to behaving in accordance with our core values has Support services These policies and processes are described in more detail in the Corporate Governance created a resilient and well balanced report on page 41.
We also say more about UK support services and international fi financial risk management in the Operating business mix 110.4m and Financial review on page 30.
To ensure produced a strong balance sheet 2009: 117.7m that our operational risk management policies delivered eight successive years of are applied rigorously throughout the Group signifi cant earnings and dividend growth we have clearly defi ned processes managed enabled the Group to consistently achieve Public Private Partnerships projects by the Group Head of Risk.
or exceed all its fi financial and strategic objectives The Group Head of Risk is responsible for positioned the Group to target further 23.
4m progress in 2011 and, over the medium advising on strategic risks affecting the term, strong international growth and 2 2009 : 30.7m Group substantial growth in UK support services.
conducting independent risk appraisals of Middle East construction services all projects prior to them being submitted A resilient and well-balanced business to the Major Projects Committee, which is In 2010, 60 per cent of underlying operating a committee of the Board with delegated profi t came from stable, long-term contracts authority to sanction major commitments for support services and PPP projects, which 47.
5m and transactions, including capital continue to provide considerable resilience in expenditure, major contracts and business the current challenging economic climate.
The 2009: 47.0m acquisitions and disposals, up to specifi ed remaining 40 per cent of underlying operating levels of risk, beyond which they are profi t came from construction services, where Construction services referred to the Board earnings have also become more resilient, excluding the Middle East overseeing risk training across the Group.
due to contract selectivity and geographical diversifi cation, which has greatly reduced our dependence on the UK and increased 4 1.2m the contributions from our international businesses in the Middle East and in Canada.
2009: 30.9m Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Our performance Group Chief Executives review continued In 2010, Middle East construction services Directors Safety Tours and employee accounted for 21 per cent of underlying engagement tools, notably our hazard 1.
To attract, operating profi t, with Construction services reporting programme, Dont Walk By, excluding the Middle East, namely in the UK, which encourages our people to report for develop and retain Canada and the Caribbean, accounting for immediate action anything they believe to be 19 per cent.
In 2010, we renewed our focus on excellent people Dont Walk By, which resulted in a 60 per A strong balance sheet cent increase in the number of reports per Attracting, developing and retaining excellent Our focus on cash management and the employee and a 23 per cent reduction in people continues to be our top priority, delivery of cash-backed profi t has consistently our Accident Frequency Rate AFR to 0.1 because our ability to deliver the high-quality delivered strong cash fl ow from operations.
reportable accidents per 100,000 employee services our customers expect, which is vital Over the past fi five years, underlying cash hours worked 2009: 0.13, with three out of to Carillions reputation and also to the fl ow from operations has increased at a four of our projects achieving zero reportable reputations of our customers, depends Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of accidents during 2010.
An AFR of 0.1 on having excellent people with the 20 per cent, and in each of those years it represents a sector-leading performance.
appropriate skills and commitment at every has comfortably exceeded underlying profi t level throughout the Group.
Strong cash generation has Despite this further improvement in our continue to invest in the development and supported our growth and enabled us to overall safety performance, fi five fatal accidents implementation of bespoke leadership, transform Carillion into a leading support occurred at Carillion work sites during 2010 personal development and employee services company, notably through two in which six people tragically lost their lives.
engagement programmes, which are major acquisitions, namely Mowlem plc in An employee of a sub-contractor was fatally designed to enable all our people to achieve 2006 and Alfred McAlpine plc in 2008.
These injured while clearing vegetation on a Carillion their full potential.
Communicating with all acquisitions were funded in part by 528 project at Barrow-in-Furness.
In Alberta, our people to engage and empowering them million of borrowing that by 31 December Canada, a Carillion Canada employee, died to contribute to the development of our 2009 had been paid down, to leave the while carrying out highway maintenance business, through creating a culture of Group with net cash of 24.9 million.
At work, after being struck by a vehicle driven openness and trust is fundamental to our 31December 2010, net cash had increased to by a member of the public.
We do this through managers and 120.2 million.
This, together with committed employee of our joint venture partner, supervisors holding regular one-to-one bank facilities of 737.5 million, maturing in Orascom, was fatally injured by a fall, after meetings with all their people, monthly March 2016, provide the Group with a very being struck by a prop being used for Team Talks, our award-winning company strong balance sheet.
construction work at the Cairo Festival City newspaper Spectrum and internal project.
In Abu Dhabi, two employees of Al newsletters.
We also monitor and measure Eight successive years of earnings Futtaim Carillion, died when they were struck our progress, through employee surveys, and dividend growth by a pre-cast concrete fl oor section, which notably The Great Debate, an annual Over the past eight years, we have delivered had been in place for several days before interactive survey of people selected randomly signifi cant year-on-year earnings and dividend suddenly collapsing without warning.
In from across all our businesses.
In 2010, growth, with both underlying earnings per Oman, a Carillion Alawi employee, was fatally 13,554 people took part in The Great Debate, share and our dividend increasing over the injured when he fell and was run over by a the results of which showed that overall the last fi five years at a compound annual growth water tanker.
During 2010, one prosecution satisfaction of our people and the extent to rate of 14 per cent.
Although the global of a Carillion company was completed by the which they feel valued and proud to work for economic downturn has made trading Health & Safety Executive.
conditions more diffi cult, especially in our UK markets, earnings in 2010 increased by six Carillion continues to be a leader in per cent.
Our ability to deliver good earnings sustainability.
Be a recognised growth despite tough market conditions ranking in Business in the Communitys demonstrates the strength and resilience of Corporate Responsibility Index, in which leader in Health our business mix.
we also topped the support services sector, we came eighth in the Sunday Times list & Safety and Consistently achieved or exceeded our of Best Green Companies and maintained fi financial and strategic objectives our membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
sustainability We have a strong track record of consistently We believe that being a leader in delivering achieving or exceeding our fi financial and sustainable solutions for our customers strategic objectives, for which we publish in the sectors in differentiates Carillion from its peers and key performance indicators KPI each year therefore helps us to win work.
More details in our Annual Report and Accounts.
Our about our programme for becoming a more which we operate performance in respect of the KPIs set for sustainable business and how this helps us to 2010 is summarised opposite.
Overall, achieve our fi financial and strategic objective, Our absolute commitment to the Health we performed well in respect of these KPIs, can be found in the sustainability section of & Safety of our people and of everyone including reducing our Accident Frequency this report on page 32. who works with us or is affected by our Rate to achieve our target for 2010.
However, operations remains paramount, together we deeply regret that six people suffered with our objective, known as Target Zero, fatal injuries on Carillion work sites in 2010 of eliminating all reportable accidents.
and we recognise that we must redouble To achieve this challenging objective, we our efforts if we are to achieve our objective continue to use a wide range of measures, of reducing reportable accidents to zero.
including training, audits, Safety Action Groups, strong visible leadership, such as 18 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Positioned for further progress Order book and growth 3.
Continuously Although trading conditions are expected to remain diffi cult, especially in our UK improve customer 18.2bn markets, we are well positioned to make further progress in 2011 and to achieve our satisfaction and objectives for medium term growth, namely doubling the revenues of our international brand reputation businesses, while delivering substantial growth in UK support services.
Our performance against this KPI, which was introduced for the fi first time in 2010, is being Order book measured by an independent annual survey of The Group maintained a strong forward customer perception.
The results of the survey order book worth some 18.2 billion at for 2010 show that average customer 1 31 December 2010 2009 : 17.9 billion, perception across all our market sectors despite the sale of a further Public Private improved in 2010 and remained well above Partnership equity investment, which a commercially acceptable level.
Within this removed 0.5 billion from the order book, average, perception improved in six of our Support services and the effects of more diffi cult market eight UK key market sectors, with perception 11.7bn 2009: 11.1bn conditions.
The value of probable orders unchanged in one sector and slightly down at 31 December reduced to 0.9 billion in one sector, but this was still well ahead Public Private Partnership projects 2009: 2.0 billion, which primarily refl ects of that in 2008.
In 2010, we carried out 1 the timing of achieving fi financial close on a 2.7bn 2009 : 2.6bn perception surveys in our international number of Public Private Partnership projects.
businesses, namely the Middle East and At 31 December 2010, the Groups revenue Middle East construction services Canada, which will provide a baseline for 2 visibility for 2011 was 82 per cent.
1.0bn 2009: 0.7bn pipeline of contract opportunities, namely contracts for which we are either currently Construction services bidding or which we expect to bid, increased 4.
Continue to excluding the Middle East signifi cantly to the record level of over 25 billion 2009: 17.1 billion.
2.8bn 2009: 3.5bn reduce costs and 1 Restated on adoption of International Financial Support services Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 12. improve effi ciency In support services, we continue to have good revenue visibility, with 75 per cent of to support earnings expected 2011 revenue currently covered by secure and probable orders.
This, together Probable orders with the substantial opportunities we have growth to win new work in 2011, means that we expect support services to continue to be In 2010, we continued to reduce our cost base resilient, despite our expectation that market and improve effi ciency.
Our success is refl ected 0.
9bn conditions will remain diffi cult in 2011.
Over in the substantial improvement we achieved the medium term, we continue to target in overall underlying operating margin, from substantial growth in UK support services, 3.8 per cent to 4.2 per cent.
This refl ected driven primarily by an increase in public sector signifi cant improvements in operating margin outsourcing, notably by UK Local Authorities, in each of our business segments, with the as they seek to deliver the substantial operating margin increasing in support services reductions in running costs announced in from 4.9 per cent to 5.2 per cent, in Middle the UK Governments 2010 Spending Review.
East construction services from 8.5 per cent Given we are targeting large complex to 9.6 per cent and in construction services contracts that take considerable time to excluding the Middle East from 1.4 per cent bid, we continue to expect the benefi ts of to 1.9 per cent.
Reducing costs and improving more public sector outsourcing to come effi ciency also helps us to remain competitive, through towards the end of 2011, leading with our success evident in the value of our to substantial growth in 2012 and beyond.
year-end forward order book, which we Support services We will continue to support our operating maintained at 18.2 billion, despite the sale 0.5bn 2009: 0.6bn margin in this segment through applying of a further Public Private Partnership equity strict selectivity criteria and maintaining our investment which removed 0.5 billion Public Private Partnership projects fi financial discipline.
from the order book, and challenging nil 2009: 0.2bn market conditions.
Generate cashnil 2009: 0.2bn backed profi t Construction services excluding the Middle East We have a strong track record of consistently 0.4bn 2009: 1.0bn delivering cash backed profi t from operations, 1 Restated on adoption of International Financial which remains a key priority for all our Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 12. business units.
In 2010, underlying cash fl ow 2 Based on expected revenue and secure and probable from operations of 230.2 million, once again orders, which exclude variable work and re-bids.
comfortably ahead of underlying profi t from operations of 194.9 million.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Our performance Group Chief Executives review continued Public Private Partnerships PPP reliability to target large, prestigious Pipeline We expect to continue generating substantial contracts, which we believe will enable us to value from our investments in PPP projects.
stabilise our operating margin at this relatively To date we have invested some 71 million healthy level over the medium-term and 2 5.7bn in our portfolio of 26 projects.
A further 107 therefore target substantial earnings growth million has still to be invested in this portfolio, over this period.
as projects currently under construction are completed and move into the operational Construction services phase.
Furthermore, the prospects for adding excluding the Middle East new projects to our portfolio remain positive.
In construction services excluding the Middle East, revenue visibility for 2011 was 89 per 1 We have strong market positions in both cent at 31 December 2010.
This provides the UK and in Canada, and we are currently a strong platform to continue the strategic shortlisted for fi five projects in which we could re-scaling of our UK business that we invest up to a further 148 million of equity announced in May 2010.
At the same time we and where we expect continuing opportunities continue to target strong growth in Canada.
In Canada, We expect this growth to be driven primarily Infrastructure Ontario is expected to announce by the construction of PPP projects, given Support services a major expansion to its programme of PPP that the current 10 billion PPP programme in 8.3bn 2009: 5.5bn projects in the fi first half of 2011, which will Canada is expected to increase signifi cantly signifi cantly increase the scale of Canadas over the next 10 years.
Therefore, revenue Public Private Partnership projects current PPP programme of some 10 billion growth in Canada will largely offset the over the next three years.
As the only company planned reduction in the UK.
Taking an even 0.9bn 2009: nil currently able to offer fully integrated solutions more selective approach to UK construction for PPP projects in Canada, we believe we will help to support our operating margin in Middle East construction services are well positioned to benefi t from this this segment by enabling us to avoid lower 8.8bn 2009: 4.2bn expected increase in investment.
In the UK, margin work, as we expect the UK the Government is continuing to use private construction market to become increasingly Construction services fi finance to deliver existing infrastructure competitive, due to the substantial cuts in excluding the Middle East programmes and has also announced capital expenditure announced in the UK 7.7bn 2009: 7.4bn that private fi finance will play a key role in Governments 2010 Spending Review.
delivering the fi five-year, 200 billion National Infrastructure Plan, announced in October Recommended acquisition of Eaga plc 2010.
As the secondary equity market remains Since the year end, Carillion has announced a strong, we also expect to continue selling recommended offer for the acquisition of Eaga investments in mature projects, namely plc, a leading UK provider of energy effi ciency where construction has been completed and solutions.
The acquisition would bring together the project has moved successfully into the two complementary companies and enhance operational phase with the support services Carillions position as one of the UKs leading contract fully established.
Therefore, we support services companies.
Carillion has expect to continue generating signifi cant identifi ed the low carbon market as a strategic value for the Group through our ability to area of growth and the acquisition of Eaga win and successfully deliver PPP projects into would create a scalable platform to build the the operational phase.
UKs largest independent energy services provider.
It would also extend Carillions Middle East construction services capability to provide integrated support In Middle East construction services, the services solutions for its existing customers, outlook for growth remains positive with for whom energy services solutions are an 1 some 78 per cent of expected 2011 revenue increasingly important requirement.
The currently covered by secure and probable acquisition is expected to be immediately orders.
Furthermore, our pipeline of contract earnings enhancing and would build on opportunities has more than doubled to Carillions previously announced objectives 8.8 billion 2009: 4.2 billion, which refl ects for growth.
the strength of our markets in Abu Dhabi, Oman and Qatar, where we established a new business during 2010, each of which has major investment programmes that are expected to continue to create signifi cant opportunities for growth.
Consequently, we John McDonough expect to double our share of revenue in the Group Chief Executive Middle East to around 1.0 billion over the 2 March 2011 next three to fi five years.
Over a similar period, we expect our operating margin to reduce steadily to around six per cent, as we continue to competitively tender for new contracts, having previously negotiated all our contracts for a number years.
However, our Joint Venture businesses in the region will continue to use their reputations for delivering projects to the highest standards of quality and 1 Based on expected revenue and secure and probable orders, which exclude variable work and re-bids.
20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 To attract, develop and retain The Group has excellent people set the following key performance Be a recognised leader in Health indicators for 2011.
& Safety and Sustainability in the sectors in which we operate Continuously improve customer satisfaction and brand reputation Grow revenue in support services Grow revenues in Canada and in the Middle East, consistent with our objective of doubling each of them to around 1 billion over the next three to fi five years Continue to re-scale our UK construction capability consistent with our objective of reducing this by one third over the next three years to around 1.2 billion Continue to reduce costs and improve effi ciency to support margins and earnings growth Generate cash-backed profi t after adjusting for the strategic re-scaling of our UK construction business Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21
