Chief Executives Statement In spite of an uncertain economic environment, 2010 proved to be an extremely good year for St. Jamess Place.
We achieved strong growth in new business, increased the size of the Partnership, and saw funds under management rise to an all time high of 27 billion.
This growth in the new business, coupled with ongoing control of expenses and good retention, has helped deliver a strong profit performance in 2010.
David Bellamy Chief Executive St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 06 Business Review New Business The St. Jamess Place Partnership The significant growth we experienced in the fourth Increasing the number of Partners and providing quarter of 2009 provided good momentum heading them with the tools and support to become more 32% into 2010 and led to strong growth in each productive are key drivers to achieving our long APE NEW subsequent quarter giving rise to an increase of 32% term new business growth objectives.
It is therefore BUSINESS in new business on an APE basis for the year in very pleasing to report success on both counts total.
Encouragingly, growth was achieved across during the year.
The size of the Partnership grew by 6%, marking Gross new funds invested during the year were up the sixth successive year of strong growth and 37% to 4.75 billion and this, together with our bringing the total to 1,552 at the end of the year.
45% retention of 95% of existing client funds, enabled us to report net inflows for the year of 3.0 billion.
Partner productivity increased by 23%, which is EEV OPERATING PROFIT an excellent outcome given the inevitable disruption Financial Performance caused by the requirement for Partners to attain The financial commentary provides comprehensive the new professional qualifications necessary by detail on the performance of the group on both an the forthcoming regulatory changes.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards and an EEV European Embedded Value basis.
We are confident that, by continuing to focus our Shareholders will recall that, due to the long-term field management teams efforts on both key drivers, 6% nature of our business, the Board believes that the we will be able maintain our momentum in new SIzE OF EEV result provides a more meaningful measure business growth.
PARTNERSHIP of the performance of the business.
Investment Management In addition, given the greater market focus on Although global investment markets were volatile cash earnings, we have provided shareholders during the first half of 2010, most major markets with additional disclosure on the cash result.
rose significantly thereafter with the FTSE 100, for example, posting a net 9% gain for the year.
I am pleased to announce, that as a result of the Benefiting from this backdrop of rising markets and strong new business performance coupled with a strong net inflows, group funds under management positive experience variance, EEV operating profits rose 26% over the twelve months to an all-time high increased 45% to 332.6 million, while IFRS profit of 27 billion at 31 December 2010. before shareholder tax rose 69% to 84.2 million.
We announced a year ago our intention to Total EEV profit, which takes into account a positive complement our existing fund range throughout investment variance resulting from the recovery 2010.
In April we began by broadening our client in stock markets in the second half of the year, proposition with the launch of three new funds: an was 455.0 million compared with 363.2 million Emerging Market fund managed by Jonathan Asante in 2009. of First State Investments UK : an International Corporate Bond fund managed by Jill Fields and zak We are also pleased to report that the cash result for Summerscale of Babson Capital Management: and the year, after taking into account the investment an Absolute Return fund managed by Mark into new business, was 48.3 million in 2010, Lyttleton and Nick Osborne of BlackRock.
Our more than double the prior year.
The significant clients have welcomed the launch of these three new improvement in the result reflects the increasing funds which in aggregate have attracted 700 maturity of the business together with the impact million in new investments to date.
of higher stock market levels on our Group funds under management.
Later in the year we appointed Adrian Frost and Adrian Gosden of Artemis to run a UK & International Income Fund and replaced the manager of one of our funds with Dan OKeefe and David Samra of Artisan Partners.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07 Chief Executives Statement continued Over the last two years we have added a total of 15 We have had further clarity from the FSA regarding new managers to manage client monies and, as a the requirements of vertically integrated firms in result, are now able to offer clients a comprehensive respect of the adviser charging rules and now know 3.0bn range of funds managed by 30 leading fund managers.
that essentially our current product charges and NET INFLOW OF remuneration structures will be RDR compliant.
FUNDS Our commitment to ensuring that our investment The way we disclose charges and remuneration will proposition remains relevant was evidenced by the naturally change, in line with the rest of the industry.
launch of our new range of model portfolios at the start of 2011.
Having stressed the importance of We will keep shareholders abreast of any other diversifying investments across asset classes and developments or changes as they arise.
management styles in order to reduce risk, we have 27.0bn modelled the portfolios appropriately to cater for Outlook a range of client investment needs.
Whilst the road to recovery for the UK economy FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT is likely to remain challenging, the need for trusted Our Clients financial advice is greater than ever.
Building long-term relationships with our clients is at the core of what we do.
This is achieved by We have established a strong reputation in the providing clients with trusted and long-term wealth management market and we remain face-to-face advice, and delivering benchmarkcommitted to building long-term relationships with beating investment returns over the medium term.
clients who can trust us to provide sound financial advice and manage their investments well.
During 2010 we again commissioned Ledbury Research to undertake an independent survey to Our reputation and track record have enabled us give clients the opportunity to provide feedback on to attract good quality advisers into our Partnership St. Jamess Place and the services we provide.
Their and we remain confident that we will be able to key findings were encouraging.
In the main, our continue this growth over the next few years.
clients are very happy with the service they receive and their level of satisfaction has improved, both Given the market opportunity available to us, from the previous research in 2008 and relative to together with the continuing growth and the wider marketplace.
However, there are areas development of the Partnership, we remain confident where we can and will do better, particularly in of our ability to achieve the 15% to 20% per annum relation to frequency of client contacts and new business growth target over the longer term.
Improving our performance in these areas will be a prime focus for our Partners over the coming months.
Retail Distribution Review The Reviews requirements for advisers to obtain David Bellamy professional qualifications are clear and I am Chief Executive delighted to say that the Partnership have embraced 22 February 2011 these requirements and really engaged in the process.
One of the numerous benefits of our scale is the level of support we can provide to them in that process.
So, as a result of the combination of these two factors, Im pleased to report that, more than 700 partners and members of our management and support teams have achieved the required diploma status and a further 700 are within one or two examinations of doing likewise.
St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
