Group Chief Executives review Consistent and long-term growth These results represent our eighth consecutive year of record income and profits.
This is not a bounce-back, or recovery story, but one of consistent delivery and of diverse and sustained growth.
Twenty-three of our markets now deliver over $100 million of income, 15 over $100 million in profit.
We are well placed in the worlds most attractive markets, winning market share, growing income and profits, and creating value for our shareholders.
A consistent strategy Much of what drives the Standard Chartered story remains constant.
Our strategy remains unchanged, and our aspiration remains the same we want to be the worlds best international bank, leading the way in Asia, Africa and the I have no doubt that the clarity and consistency Middle East.
We are putting even greater focus on our clients and customers, on of our strategy, our discipline in sticking to it, and building deep and long-standing unwavering commitment to our distinctive relationships, on improving the quality of our service and solutions.
We continue to culture and values have been crucial to our be obsessed with the basics of banking continued success.
balancing the pursuit of growth with disciplined management of costs and risks, keeping a rm grip on liquidity and capital.
Were continuing to focus on culture and values, on the way we work together across multiple geographies, products and segments, combining deep local knowledge with global capability.
These fundamentals underscore everything the Bank does, and everything we as a bank stand for.
I have no doubt that the clarity and consistency of our strategy, our discipline in sticking to it, and unwavering commitment to our distinctive culture and values have been crucial to our continued success.
But it would be a mistake to think this means we havent changed.
Standard Chartered today is very different from the organisation I joined in early 2002.
We entered that year having made a little over $1 billion in pre-tax profits the year before, with a share-price of GBP6.92, and some 28,000 staff.
We were constantly under threat of takeover.
06 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Group Chief Executives review For further information you can visit www.
com Here for good Here for good illustrates the Banks commitment to being apositive force in its markets.
It underlines our distinctive approach to international banking and creating a strong platform for continued growth The outlook for our markets India Fast-forward to 2010, and we have two Most of our markets across Asia, Africa and India became our largest market by individual markets, India and Hong Kong, the Middle East have quickly returned to a protslast year for the first time, a great delivering a similar amount of profit to the trajectory of strong economic growth.
Before we acquired the entire Group in 2001.
We have over 85,000 rebalancing of the global economy towards Grindlays business in 2000, our profits in staff, and our shareholders have seen a Asia continues apace.
Last year, emerging India were $45 million.
With Grindlays, the Total Shareholder Return of over 230 per markets accounted for one-third of global total was $110 million.
By investing to drive cent from the end of 2001, until the end of GDP, but two-thirds of the worlds growth.
organic growth we have increased profits to last year.
Indeed, we see a fundamentally different $1.2 billion in 2010, a compounded annual world emerging by 2030, as we discussed growth rate of 27 per cent.
Last year Here for good in our research piece The Super-Cycle income in India was over $2 billion for the While our story remains consistent, the 1 Report first time, up 12 per cent on 2009.
Group continued to evolve rapidly during published at the end of last year.
One of the most visible changes in By2030, we envisage that the worlds five We cant expect India to continue to grow 2010 was the launch of Here for good, our largest economies will be those of China, at quite the pace it has in recent years, brand promise, which captures the essence the US, India, Brazil and Indonesia.
While given the sheer scale of the business, but it of who we are.
We are a bank that sticks by the US and the West will see improved GDP will still be one of the Groups big growth its clients and customers, through good growth, it will hover around 2.5 per cent engines.
We are continuing to invest in new times and bad: a bank that always tries to over the longer term.
Contrast this with product capabilities, such as equities, new do the right thing.
We are committed to India, at almost 10 per cent and China at segments, such as private banking and having a positive impact on the broader 7per cent.
We anticipate the majority of our expanded infrastructure, such as our economy and on the communities in which markets growing at between 5 and 8 per express banking centres.
Here for good resonates cent over this period.
But it is also the with staff, clients and customers and other nature of the growth across Asia that is The launch of our Indian Depository stakeholders because its true, because its changing.
Asian countries economic Receipts, or IDR, in Mumbai was the first simple and because its powerful.
Its a growth is increasingly being driven by listing by an international company in India benchmark that people will hold us to, but domestic demand, as well as trading with and a powerful statement of our that is the point.
each other, rather than the traditional commitment to India.
It also proved a very reliance on exporting to meet the demands effective way to build the brand: brand One example of meeting our aim of of consumers in the West.
Intra-Asia trade delivering for our shareholders, while awareness among our target segments andinvestment ows are growing quickly making a positive impact on the broader sharply increased during 2010. from just over 10 per cent of world trade economy and society, is in how the Bank in 2000, to just under 20 per cent last year has supported our customers in times of Looking forward, the Indian economy and with a projected share of over a third stress.
We continued to increase our continues to grow at pace, and we continue of all global trade by 2030.
This growth is lending to small and medium-sized to see huge opportunities.
Extending our underpinned by Asian policymakers enterprises SMEs throughout the crisis: distribution reach beyond our current total determined approach towards by 14 per cent in 2009, and by 32 per cent, implementing free trade agreements, of 94 branches is a key priority, particularly or just over $4 billion in 2010.
Mortgage reducing tariffs and dismantling other for Consumer Banking.
lending also rose by 23 per cent last year.
fact, the Group has increased total lending Greater China to clients and customers by over $90 billion This is not to say that there are no Whilst mainland China, Hong Kong and since the start of the crisis in mid-2007, an challenges facing our markets.
There Taiwan are very different as markets, given increase of 60 per cent.
areclearly some difficult issues facing distinct regulatory systems and very policymakers, particularly as surplus different competitive dynamics, the links To give you a sense of how were changing liquidity oods into the region, driving between these economies are developing the Bank, without altering the assetprice ination.
But while there may extraordinarily rapidly and this is having a fundamentals, I want to talk a bit about bebumps along the way, these will not profound impact on trade and capital ows.
what weve been doing in some of our key derail the long-term growth picture.
In response we are positioning to ensure we markets, and what we see ahead.
dont just seize the opportunities the 1 http: www.
com media-centre pressreleases 2010 documents 20101115 The Super-cycle Report.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 07 Group Chief Executives review individual markets present, but grasp theGreater China opportunity, helping companies and individuals across the region to trade and invest, to nd partners and do deals.
One fact illustrates the pace of these developments.
Direct ights between themainland and Taiwan commenced inJuly 2008 and today there are nearly 400direct ights per week, and over a million Taiwanese are estimated to now livein China.
In 2010, cross-Straits trade increased nearly 40 per cent to more than $140billion.
The Greater China dynamic is also having apowerful impact on Hong Kong.
Far from being a mature slow growth economy, Hong Kong continues to offer significant Listing the first-ever Indian Depository growth opportunities as it develops its role as Chinas international financial centre.
Receipts in India was a bold, strategic move Take for example whats happening with the that helped reinforce our market visibility, internationalisation of the renmimbi RMB.
In 2009, some $530 million of Chinas trade enhance our brand perception and boost was settled in RMB: in 2010, this was over further growth in our businesses.
Much of this activity is centred in Hong Kong.
pleased to be contributing in a small way to theongoing development of Indias financial Settling trade transactions in RMB is generating offshore RMB deposits, which markets and Mumbais development as a grew five times in Hong Kong during 2010, to around CNY315 billion, or $48 billion, and global financial centre.
this in turn is enabling the creation of an offshore RMB bond market the so-called dim sum market, which in turn is fuelling RMB foreign exchange trading volumes.
We anticipated these developments, and have been investing in the infrastructure and capabilities to support them.
We were the first bank to facilitate a domestic RMB trade settlement, the first to launch a RMB denominated bond for a foreign corporate and the first to offer retail RMB structured products.
Our RMB deposits in Hong Kong grew ten-fold in 2010.
RMB internationalisation is just one example of how China is impacting Hong Kong.
Every aspect of the business, including 08 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Group Chief Executives review Indonesia It is regions like Africa that demonstrate the Consumer Banking, is feeling the effects Indonesia is the largest economy in ability of universal banks such as Standard ofChinas transformation.
The performance SouthEast Asia, the fourth-largest Chartered to be socially useful not as a of the Hong Kong business accelerated in population in the world, a country rich one-off or charitable activity, but on an the second half of 2010, with income up inresources, underpinned by a stable ongoing commercial basis: doing what 13per cent on the first half and a record politicalenvironment, good scal policy wedo best: driving trade and investment, fourth quarter.
We regard creating jobs and nancing infrastructure.
Indonesia as one of the fast-growth Forus, it is all about nding where we can Singapore 7percent club countries over the next contribute to the wider economy, whilst Singapore is another market that is 20 years and likely to become the alsomaking money for our shareholders.
sometimes seen as mature, but where fifth-largest global economy by 2030.
It Ghana offers a good example.
We play a wesee significant growth opportunities, isacountry undergoing profound change, key role in nancing exports and asit successfully builds its role as an with political reform opening the country  infrastructure international financial centre.
projects, such as the development of the business-friendly environment, great Jubilee oilelds.
We support SMEs and infrastructure, a strong regulatory We are in a strong position to take local corporates as they grow and trade.
framework and an efficient tax regime, advantage of Indonesias potential, both We were the first bank in the country to Singapore is an attractive place to do through our own business, and via our offer clients commodity, interest rate and business.
We run our Consumer and 45 per cent stake in Permata Bank.
In helping our clients Wholesale Banking businesses from Standard Chartered in Indonesia has manage the risks of investment and trade Singapore, and many of our key functions, 26 branches: Permata has 280.
With inan increasingly volatile global economy, such as technology and operations are different strengths, and distinct target these derivative products have real centred there.
This January we opened our segments, these complementary franchises economic and social value.
new ofce in the Marina Bay Financial enable us to seize the multiple growth Centre development, and were the first opportunities.
Indonesia contributed just Africa is a region with many challenges, as company to move in.
The building under $200 million to Group pre-tax profits the current difficulties in Cote dIvoire accommodates around 4,500 people and in 2010 and we believe our Indonesian illustrate, but it is also a region full of houses a trading oor with 790 positions across 65,000 square feet which we business has significant potential for promise and positive change.
believe is the largest trading oor in Asia.
further growth over the medium term.
Singapore is also the main hub of our Africa Middle East and South Asia Private Banking business.
From its We have a strong franchise in sub-Saharan Our business in the Middle East more than inception in 2006, and with the benefit of Africa, across 14 countries.
While its doubled profits in 2010, largely due to the the American Express Bank acquisition in always difficult to talk about these diverse sharp improvement in loan impairment.
In 2008, Private Banking now has $46 billion cultures and countries in one breath, its the UAE, our biggest business in the Middle ofassets under management, up 31 per clear that Africa is playing a stronger role in East, we are seeing the benets of a cent on 2009.
From a standing start less the global economy, driven in part by gradually improving economy and some than five years ago, were already the increasing global demand for commodities.
good progress in tackling over-leverage in sixth-largest private bank in Asia.
This will benefit many parts of Africa, and the property market.
underpins the explosive growth in AfricaSingapore is also good example of a market Asia trade and investment.
Whilst some parts of the region are facing where the Group has engaged in select significant political and economic capability acquisitions to boost product We added to our franchise last year, by challenges, we remain convinced that these capability.
Last year we acquired a small opening in Angola, now Africas thirdmarkets offer significant opportunities for factoring business to support our SME largest economy, based on its oil exports.
growth and are investing in both businesses clients, and earlier this year we acquired an We have achieved strong double-digit to realise this potential.
auto-nancing portfolio to enhance our income growth across most of our African product offering for customers.
In Nigeria, our largest business in Africa, where we have 26 branches, we Just next door to Singapore is a market achieved over $200 million of income for whose potential is often underestimated the first time.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 09 Group Chief Executives review Challenges and priorities for 2011 Perhaps more fundamentally, we remain Technology and Innovation As we look forward, it is essential that we relatively cautious about the outlook for Banking technology is also evolving rapidly, stay focused on our strategy and on the key theworld economy this year.
Were and we are making full use of new priorities for 2011: maintaining our track certainlyin a global recovery, but its a innovations to change the way we run the record of delivery, sustaining the verypolarised recovery, and vulnerable business, drive cost efficiencies and momentum in Wholesale Banking, and toshocks.
Our markets, and particularly improve our service.
We have completing the transformation of Consumer Asia, are growing strongly, and were fundamentally transformed the Banking.
We need to continue to deepen verypositive about the longer-term infrastructure of the Bank over the last few our relationships with our customers and outlook.
However, the West still faces a years, giving us far greater scalability and clients, and ensure we continue our focus deleveraging challenge.
There has been resilience and providing a much stronger on the basics of banking liquidity, capital, limited progress on tackling global platform for innovation.
It is also vitally imbalances.
And the spectre of ination important that we continue to reinforce, and isvery real, in Asia, and in the West.
By standardising platforms, re-engineering differentiate, our brand.
Asiaisno longer dependent on the processes and hubbing activity into our Westtodrive economic growth, but principal shared service centres in Chennai, As a Board, we must focus on executing neitheris it decoupled.
Currencies, Kuala Lumpur, and Tianjin, we have been these priorities, and on striking the right capitalows and trade mean there are able to drive down technology and balance between ensuring we keep powerful interdependencies.
operating running costs as a percentage of delivering in the near term whilst also income from just over 12 per cent six years grasping the many growth opportunities Were running the Bank confident that ago, to less than 8 per cent today, even our markets offer.
This means we need to weare in the right places in the world, during a period of substantial volume manage our cost base very tightly, butfar from complacent.
We are continuously reducing unit prioritising investment and delivering inationary pressures in assets and transaction costs and have markedly continuous improvements in productivity.
commodities, always trying to anticipate reduced service failures, down by 70 per theunintended consequences of policies cent in three years.
Our objective here is The biggest external challenge we face is and regulatory change.
torelentlessly improve efficiency, so that regulation.
Whilst we are broadly supportive wehave more headroom for investment, while simultaneously enhancing control of much of the regulatory reform agenda, Finally, I should mention competition.
the sheer scale of actual and potential a couple of years in which many of our changes, when applied across all the competitors were in some disarray, we are Technology also creates opportunities for markets we operate in, represents a very seeing more competition across our us to be much more innovative in how we considerable challenge and there is the real markets, both from increasingly capable interact with our customers and clients.
In risk of unintended consequences.
Rather local banks and from international banks Singapore and Malaysia, we launched than seeing increasing global co-ordination returning to the fray.
This has had an impact Breeze, an innovative iPhone banking app and consistency of regulation, we are on margins in some markets.
But overall that enables customers to pay bills, transfer seeing increased fragmentation and were still winning market share in many money, and nd ATMs in an intuitive and unilateral action.
For example, the UKs markets, products and segments.
Were also very much at the recent announcement that the bank levy forefront of developing mobile banking will be implemented in full during 2011 In fact, the aspect of competition that services, particularly in Africa, where means that the levy will cost us around mostconcerns me is the war for talent.
mobiles are used to transfer cash, purchase $180 million post-tax this year.
Theres intense competition for the best goods, and pay utility bills.
people in many of our markets.
We need We also face challenges in some markets tobe competitive in the way we reward Banking is intrinsically digital and, like from political turmoil, most obviously in the andrecognise people.
We need to be otherdigital industries, can be transformed Middle East and Africa.
Thus far, the ableto provide them with opportunities through technological innovation.
We can challenges here are more about protecting togrow and develop.
Thats where our empower our clients and customers by our staff and customers, rather than values and culture are a powerful source putting tools and information into their primarily financial, given that our businesses ofcompetitive advantage, where Here for hands.
We can achieve radical in the most affected countries tend to be good sets us apart.
improvements in processing times and rather small.
And while rapid political costs.
This is an increasingly important change can be disruptive to business partof our strategy, and an area in which activity in the short term, it can also we invested in 2010 to build our createopportunities.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Group Chief Executives review implications this may trigger.
Regulatory Outlook change will continue to be the biggest Delivering eight years of record income external risk to our performance.
andgrowth, sustaining our momentum throughout the crisis, has taken a lot of So what can you expect from us in 2011?
hard work, professionalism and discipline.
Iwould like to take this opportunity to thank Given the markets we operate in, and all of our staff, for once again showing what themomentum of our businesses, we we can achieve as a team.
believe we can continue to deliver double-digit growth in income in 2011 I would also like to thank you, our and beyond shareholders, for your support.
We were Excluding the impact of the UK bank levy, delighted by the way you backed us with for the Group in total we are managing the rights issue last October, with 98.5 per the business to bring income and cost cent taking up your rights.
We now have growth in line for the full year in 2011 capital to absorb the new regulatory requirements and to continue to grow at Earnings and Return on Equity will reect pace.
Indeed, the strength of our capital the momentum of the businesses.
position, combined with the depth of our However, there are two factors that will liquidity and the diversity of our assets, impact these metrics in 2011: the full year gives us a balance sheet that is a powerful dilutive effect of the rights issue and the source of competitive advantage.
UK bank levy We start 2011 strongly with the balance The Bank enters 2011 in great shape.
We sheet in excellent shape, with good have a clear strategy, which we will stick to.
momentum and with volume growth in both We have an increasingly powerful brand.
We have had a record January, We have an exceptionally strong balance both in terms of income and profit.
Both our businesses have good momentum and began the year well.
In Wholesale Banking, client income remains strong, ahead of last January and in line with the general trend of client income contributing around three-quarters of total income.
Our deal pipelines remain very good.
Peter Sands Group Chief Executive In Consumer Banking, the balance sheet 2 March 2011 has good velocity and we have invested for growth.
We have seen continued steady income progress in the first month and start 2011 without the significant drag of liability margin pressure.
Our forward looking risk indicators remain benign as the global economic environment continues to improve, albeit somewhat unevenly.
However we are watchful of asset and consumer price ination and the policy www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 11
