SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 08 Chief Executives statement SVG Capital has continued to make good progress through 2010, both in terms of improving balance sheet strength, and in the performance of its underlying portfolio.
In the course of the year, we successfully renegotiated and extended the maturity ofour revolving credit facility until 2013, and in the second-half we agreed the sale ofthe majority of the Companys non-core warehoused assets, releasing 57.6 million of uncalled commitments.
Just prior to the year-end, we pre-paid some of our Senior Notes at par, which has in turn reduced the Companys interest costs.
All of these actions have further fide-risked the balance sheet.
The investment portfolio returned 35.9% over the year, including the negative impact of currency movements.
This is a significant improvement on 2009 and was driven by a rapid recovery of the operating performance of the underlying companies, many of which are now trading better than they were at acquisition.
This strong recovery was helped by a much improved macro-economic environment last year and by the early defensive actions taken by management at the outset of the recession.
Investment portfolio The net investment portfolio has increased in value by 362.6 million over the year.
Thebulkof this return has been driven by investments in Permira IV, in particular Galaxy, ProSiebenSat and Hugo Boss, which together have added 183.0million tothevalue of the portfolio.
The improvement in the valuation of the investment portfolio has been driven by anespecially strong operating performance at some of the larger companies, withthePermira funds portfolio reporting year-on-year weighted average earnings growth of27%.
Encouragingly, the bulk of the portfolio also reported top-line growth, withweighted average year-on-year revenues increasing by 14%.
Like for like, the weighted average earnings multiple used to value the portfolio contracted marginally over theyear.
Distributions from the investment portfolio were above the level of 2009, with the completion of the sale of Cognis to BASF, realisation of Strides Arcolab and partial realisation of TDC taking distributions to 123.0 million for the year.
We expect the level of distributions to pick up over the course of 2011.
The Company paid calls of 113.5 million over the 12 months and uncalled commitments at the year-end stood at 209.8 million.
The Company is currently operating well within its financial covenants and has available cash and borrowings of276.3 million, a coverage of 1.3x our uncalled commitments.
SVG Capital has continued to make good progress through 2010, both in terms of maintaining and improving balance sheet strength, and in the performance of its underlying portfolio.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 09 SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers Funds managed or advised by SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers remain unchanged at 4.0 billion.
The performance across the investment portfolios advised by SVG Advisers has continued to improve, reporting five consecutive quarters of valuation gains.
This has translated into positive net asset growth across all of the fundsof funds, in particular the leveraged funds, such as SVG Diamond I and II, bothofwhich have reported significant rebounds in NAV.
Similarly, funds managed bySVG Investment Managers saw material gains and outperformed their relevant equity benchmarks over the year.
The fundraising environment for private equity funds of funds remains challenging andrecent research has shown a sharp drop in the market share of funds of funds.
TDC Private equity is a cyclical asset class and we will continue to invest in people and In December, Permira announced the partial realisation of TDC through a placing of shares on upgrade the infrastructure of the business in order to ensure the business has a robust the Danish Stock Exchange.
In 2006, funds advised platform for growth over the longer term.
As highlighted in June, this investment will by Permira acquired TDC, the incumbent Danish impact profitability.
telecom operator, through a public tender offer aspart of a consortium of private equity advised At 31 December 2010, the Directors have placed an unaudited valuation on the funds.
The company has successfully increased its earnings and is now one of the best performing business of 53.7 million 17.0p per share, a 23.5 million reduction on the previous incumbent telecom operators on key metrics.
year with the valuation being impacted by lower comparable multiples and a slightly It has delivered EBITDA and free cash flow growth reduced maintainable profit after tax.
in recent years driven by continued operational improvements and has successfully refocused its activities on the Nordic market.
Following the disposal of Sunrise Communications, TDC is now Share price afocused pure-play Nordic telecom business withleading positions across market segments.
Improving Shareholders total return is a priority for the Company.
The shares have TDC has undergone a significant transformation, appreciated by 66.0% over the year.
The discount to net asset value at which the achieving near best in class operating performance sharestrade at has also narrowed from 43.0% to 33.3% over the year.
We believe this since acquisition.
tightening is a reflection of the overall positive shift in sentiment towards the sector, butalso the improved outlook for the investment portfolio and further fide-risking of the Companys balance sheet, with net debt to Shareholders funds falling from 44.2%to 31.9% over the year.
Ensuring the Company is well understood by a wide variety of stakeholders will also play a role in a potential further re-rating of our shares.
During the course of 2010 we have invested a considerable amount of time in widening the shareholder base and willcontinue this effort in 2011.
Outlook We are encouraged by the significant rebound in the performance of the investment 1 portfolio which has translated into a 41.7% increase in our net assets.
The newsflow from the portfolio is positive with many of the underlying investee companies showing evidence of relative outperformance, in addition to gaining market share and expanding margins.
Improving the strength of the balance sheet remains a priority for the management team.
We will continue to look at ways to further fide-risk the balance sheet in 2011.
Since the year-end, we have agreed to repurchase a further 15.9 million of Senior Notes at par, reducing the par value of our Senior Note liabilities to 185.5 million, an18.8% reduction on 2009.
Lynn Fordham Chief Executive 14 February 2011 1 Including the 31 December 2010 unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers of 53.7million 17.0p per share.
