OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Nowhere is competition more intense than in the broadband market, where we are making one of the largest private sector investments in Europe, spending 1.5bn to bring bre to at least 40% of the UK in 2012.
If conditions are favourable, we see no reason not to extend this to around two-thirds of the UK by 2015 which will take our total investment to 2.5bn.
Our people Our people have worked hard to improve service and efficiency, often changing working practices to be available when and where our customers need us.
We have also reduced the number of people IAN LIVINGSTON working for BT, doing our best to protect the jobs of our permanent CHIEF EXECUTIVE employees.
With retraining and support, some 5,000 people have found new roles in the business.
No small feat and one we are proud of in todays economic environment.
A better business, a better future In the last year, we have made some tough, but necessary, changes that are helping us to create the sort of company BT In the last year, weve taken decisive action with one aim in mind needs to be, at the same time as providing new opportunities for to make BT a better business with a better future.
Of course, theres a lot more to do but we have established a much rmer base from which to invest in the future The right foundations are in place to make BT a better business of our company.
with a better future for our customers, for our shareholders, and for our people.
A better business There is a lot more to do but we are heading in the right direction.
Thank you for your support in this journey.
Our focus on improving customer service is paying off.
Faults and complaints have been signicantly reduced.
We will continue to invest in training, systems and processes to deliver a better customer experience.
Reducing the time spent on xing service issues has been a critical factor in helping to transform our cost base and, as a result, we have been able to free up the resources to invest in new products and technology.
We have now set clear objectives for the next three years objectives that will help build a better future for BT.
IAN LIVINGSTON CHIEF EXECUTIVE A better future 12 MAY 2010 The UKs communications market is one of the most competitive in the world and consumers have benefited from this.
Real prices are down more than 50% in the last 20 years and are among the lowest in any major advanced economy.
We see significant opportunity to provide consumers with not just great value but with a wide range of broadband-based services.
For example, BT Vision, our television service, where we will be offering new channels, content and interactivity.
The UKs small and medium-sized businesses will also benefit from our investment in communications services that will enhance their efficiency and capabilities.
Improving the financial performance of BT Global Services remains an important priority.
Weve started to turn the corner with five quarters of improved profitability and an impressive list of new deals.
Globalisation is here to stay and we will build on our position as a global leader in networked IT services by enhancing our product portfolio, and improving customer service and contract delivery.
We will also make targeted investment in areas of potential profitable growth such as in the Asia Pacic region where we already have a strong market presence.
BT is the largest communications wholesaler in Europe.
Our BT Wholesale business will continue to move into new markets, winning deals with organisations like mobile operators, who are choosing BT to run a large part of their infrastructure.
B BT GR T GROUP PL OUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT & T & FORM FORM 20-F 20-F 5 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMA ADDITIONAL INFORMA TION TION FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS REPOR REPORT OF THE DIREC T OF THE DIRECT TORS ORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVER OVERVIEW VIEW
