6 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive The Group performed well throughout the year revenue from continuing operations grew by 18% to a record 597.1 million.
demand from the US and Canadian Armies Group results Operational highlights for the HMDS ground penetrating radar to The Group performed well throughout the Tremendous performance from our support peacekeeping operations.
A new year, in spite of the downturn in European US subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered production facility was opened in July 2010 defence spending as the majority of over one hundred Husky Mounted and production has now increased to twenty governments looked to reduce their fiscal Detection System HMDS ground HMDS units per month.
Revenue from continuing operations penetrating radars.
grew by 18% to a record 597.1 million.
Our Munitions division also had a Our Munitions division also had an Over two thirds of this growth was organic, commendable year, with revenue up 35% to excellent year with over 100% growth with strong contributions from both our a new record of 115.9 million and growing in order intake to 245.2 million.
Counter-Improvised Explosive Device IED demand for our products in most geographic and Munitions operations.
Deliveries of 40mm grenades and With the acquisition of Roke, the tremendous performance from our US medium and large calibre ammunition to number of qualified engineers and subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered over Middle East customers under new multi-year scientists employed by the Group one hundred Husky Mounted Detection contracts were the main contributor.
Sales of increased to over 600.
System HMDS ground penetrating radars sub-systems contributed just over 47% of the Capital investment in the year grew by to the US Army for counter-IED operations.
revenue, with full round ammunition making 22% to 40.9 million, which represents The Group revenue continued to be second up the remainder.
half weighted, with 341.2 million of revenue Our Pyrotechnics division generated 57% generated in the second six months Key information revenue of 170 million, slightly below last of the year, similar to the average phasing year but still 77% higher than that achieved Year end order book achieved over the last five years.
Growth was achieved in aircraft The order intake for the Group during the safety systems and space pyrotechnics, 803.3m year reached a new record of 824.3 million, which was offset by reduced deliveries of up 31% on the previous year.
Our Counter-IED training products because of customer- 44% division generated 178.5 million of order funded product upgrades and the relocation intake, of which 151.5 million related to of some US production.
Revenue the provision of ground penetrating radar Our Countermeasures division delivered a for the US Army.
Our Munitions division steady performance, achieving a 7% increase 597.1m also had an excellent year with over 100% in revenue to 196.3 million, in spite of growth in order intake to 245.2 million, the incidents that disrupted production at 18% 145.1 million of which was awarded by Kilgore and, earlier in the year, at Chemring Middle Eastern customers.
Order intake in Number of employees Countermeasures in the UK.
our Pyrotechnics division also reached a new record of 181.4 million, up 25% on last The underlying operating margin achieved 4,283 year and providing the highest level of order for the Group was 23%, similar to that cover we have ever had going into a new achieved last year, and an underlying 28% financial year.
Our Countermeasures division operating profit of 135.6 million was Before acquisition related costs, intangible achieved an order intake of 219.2 million, generated, which was 18% higher than amortisation arising from business which although lower than last year, did not last year.
Operating margins in the combinations and loss gain on fair include any of the large multi-year contracts Countermeasures division rose slightly to value movements on derivatives totalling 27.7 million 2009: 6.8 million that were awarded by the US and Australian 30% and those in the Munitions division governments in 2009. rose to 18%, reflecting the higher relative proportion of prime contracting lower The closing order book for the Group, margin business to that of component therefore, reached 803.3 million, an and sub-system business higher margin.
increase of 44% on the previous year end, Pyrotechnics margins reduced slightly and this provides a solid foundation for the compared with the previous year to 24%, expected growth in 2011. reflecting the timing of product improvement Our Counter-IED division had an excellent in key training products for the US Army.
year, achieving an 88% increase in revenue Margins in the Counter-IED division remained to a record level of 114.9 million, in spite of constant at 25%.
We remain confident that delays in the placement of orders.
NIITEK had the current level of profitability should be an outstanding year, increasing its revenue sustainable into the future.
by 124% to 102 million, driven by urgent Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 7 The underlying operating cash inflow during one of our employees returns safely home at impact on our Munitions division in 2011. the year was excellent at 126.1 million, the end of every working day.
It provides an extensive range of mortar equivalent to a cash conversion rate of ammunition, and medium calibre and large Revenue analysis 93% from underlying operating profit.
calibre ammunition for light armoured Revenue from US customers increased by Our operating cash inflow in the second half vehicles LAVs, including the ammunition 25% during the year to 293.1 million, which was particularly strong, with an equivalent used in the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun, which now represents 49% of the total Group cash conversion of 117%.
is fitted on the LAVs used by many revenue.
Sales to Middle East countries non-NATO nations.
Health and safety increased substantially during the year Roke was also acquired at the end of the The Board recognises that the highest by 153% to 51.6 million, as deliveries on financial year, and provides the Group levels of safety are required to protect new multi-year supply contracts started.
with a very broad range of systems our employees, our customers and the Revenue from UK customers decreased engineering, electronics, software and general public.
We believe that all injuries by 11% to 111.6 million, and the UK market network design capability.
Its electronic and incidents are preventable, and we are now contributes only 19% of the total Group warfare capabilities will significantly enhance strengthening our long term strategies to revenue.
Revenue from European countries our Countermeasures division and allow ensure that the Group continually improves also decreased to 73.0 million during expansion into a wider range of products.
its performance and reduces risk.
the year, a notable decrease on last year.
Its jamming and communications technology These reductions were principally caused During the year, we continued with our will significantly enhance our offering into the by the late timing of order placement by implementation of formal management counter-IED market, and its sensor and data our main European customers.
Given the systems across the Group.
With the exception fusion capabilities will augment our detection weakness in European economies, we of our newest acquisitions, all sites are technologies.
Finally, Roke plays an important expect this trend to continue whilst the certified to the environment management role in the UK cyber market, and the Group Middle East and Far East export markets system ISO14001 and all but one have now intends to develop a niche role in this rapidly continue to enjoy more favourable been validated as compliant with the health expanding market.
Revenues from Australia and the and safety management system OHSAS18001 Far East increased by 13% to 44.1 million, The remaining site will achieve certification Research and development reflecting increased deliveries of 40mm by the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Our strategy for future growth continues grenades to the Australian Army.
to rely on technology leadership and the Our lost time incident rate calculated rapid development of new products that using the US OSHA rules continues Acquisitions meet the changing needs of our customers The Group made five acquisitions during to improve slowly from 1.13 to 1.06 and displace those of our competitors.
Six of our the year: the three most significant Our total expenditure on R&D grew by 81% were Hi-Shear Technology Corporation sites reported no lost days in the year, to 34.2 million, which represents nearly which is an excellent achievement.
in California, Mecar S. A. in Belgium and 6% of the total Group revenue.
InternallyRoke Manor Research Limited in the UK.
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we funded R&D grew by 48% to 13.6 million, Hi-Shear was acquired at the start of the pay particular attention to those where reflecting the strategic emphasis we employees sustain injury due to an financial year and has performed well during continue to place on product innovation.
its first year of ownership.
It provides the energetic event.
We did, unfortunately, The two largest areas of funding are in our have three significant lost time events Group with some key product technologies Countermeasures and Counter-IED divisions, following unexpected ignitions during the and customer relationships that augment where NIITEK and Chemring Countermeasures the existing pyrotechnics and munitions year.
One was at the Tennessee site of our have been particularly successful in US subsidiary, Kilgore: one was at our UK portfolios.
It provides the US space attracting customer-funded development programme with the NASA standard initiators subsidiary, Chemring Countermeasures: of new products and technology for ground and one was at our newly acquired Belgian and low-shock separation devices and does, penetrating radar and naval countermeasures subsidiary, Mecar.
All such events are fully therefore, have a strong relationship with respectively.
We also continue to place NASA and the main US prime contractors.
investigated and controls implemented to considerable emphasis on our partnerships prevent reoccurrence.
In the Kilgore incident, It also provides advanced electronic safety with academic institutions.
Our long term and arming fuzes for ballistic missile defence three employees were seriously hurt and partnership with Cranfield University continue to receive treatment.
We wish them applications, which represent a buoyant continues to expand, and we now have a rapid and complete recovery, and are doing market at the moment due to widespread sixteen programmes running across areas of concerns about growing threats from rogue all that we can to support them and their interest relevant to all four of our divisions.
families through this difficult time.
As Chief states with nuclear missiles.
Executive, I am fully aware that it is my Mecar was acquired towards the end of the responsibility to ensure that every single financial year, and will have a significant Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 8 Business overview Review by the Chief Executive continued I would like to extend my personal thanks to all members of staff for their dedication and hard work in delivering the 2010 results.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to Although 80% of our revenue is currently Capital investment all members of staff for their dedication and generated with NATO countries, the fastest Capital investment in the year grew by hard work in delivering the 2010 results.
growth is taking place in the Middle East 22% to 40.9 million, which represents and the Far East, where nations continue to nearly 7% of Group revenue.
18.8 million Future prospects achieve double-digit increases in their Gross of the investment was taken up with the Market conditions Domestic Product and regional instability continuing build of the new countermeasures During 2010, the defence market faced justifies additional defence expenditure.
manufacturing facilities at Salisbury in the some uncertainty as most NATO nations With oil prices moving towards $100 per UK, and at Lara in Australia.
These facilities reviewed total government expenditure to barrel, Middle East governments are relatively will be commissioned in 2011, and will provide address fiscal deficits built up during the well-funded and should provide opportunities automated manufacturing of the full range banking crises.
In Europe, in particular, the for growth over the next five to ten years.
of our non-US magnesium and spectral market weakened as the majority of nations flares, greatly reducing the exposure of our Countermeasures announced cut-backs in defence budgets, staff to risks and improving manufacturing In Afghanistan, the US Government has averaging at least a 10% reduction over productivity.
Both facilities will provide a increased the number of troops deployed the next few years.
The majority of these substantial improvement in operational by 30,000, and taken the NATO deployment reductions will be achieved by cancellation efficiency and a flexible production surge above 130,000.
The US also deployed an or cost reduction on specific programmes, capability.
The Australian facility was recently additional two hundred and fifty helicopters such as the termination of the Harrier force audited by BAE Systems North America, who and this should strengthen demand for announced by the UK Ministry of Defence gave positive feedback on its suitability for flares to protect these particular platforms.
as part of its recent Strategic Defence and second-source provision on the multi-national Although the withdrawal of troops will Security Review, rather than a general cutJoint Strike Fighter JSF programme.
start in 2011, both the US and the UK back across all areas of expenditure.
This is have indicated that they will maintain a A second principal area of investment was particularly true for customers involved in substantial presence until around 2015. associated with the development of our peacekeeping operations overseas, who Chemring Energetics facility in Scotland, continue to procure substantial product The major growth over the next five where we have authorised an 11 million volumes for both operational use and to years will, however, be associated with investment, spread over the 2010 and 2011 replenish their national stockpiles.
However, the supply of flares and countermeasures financial years.
The investment covers four the review process takes time and, even to protect fast jets.
These are principally new facilities: primary explosives facilities when there remains a clear need, we have used in operations against sophisticated for the manufacture of detonators and seen an average of four to six months delay opponents, where war stocks need to be in initiators: the plastic explosives pressing in the timing of our usual European orders.
place for high volume usage during intense facility for the manufacture of demolition battle conditions.
The entry-into-service Our US market, on the other hand, has been stores: the Meccanite expansion facility for of the Typhoon aircraft is one example, more robust with little sign of any consensus the manufacture of propellants: and the with large numbers of aircraft starting supporting significant cuts in modernisation, high explosive pressing facility for warhead operations shortly within both Europe force structure, troop numbers or overseas manufacture.
All of these facilities provide and the Middle East.
The recent announcement from the new manufacturing capabilities to the site and Fighter JSF will probably be the most US Department of Defense indicates that the the capacity to meet the substantial growth significant driver of growth over the next FY12 budget proposal will be $553 billion, in revenue that is expected in the future.
ten to fifteen year period.
Although aircraft 3% higher than the FY2011 proposal, and that production has been slow, Kilgore has there is no planned reduction in expenditure Staff and employees completed development of the JSF flare set over the FY2012 to FY2016 period.
Although At the end of 2010, the Group employed and has just been awarded the contract for a number of important programmes have a total of 4,283 people, 28% higher the low-rate initial production.
Over the next been cancelled, none of these has a major than the previous year end, although the five years, production will need to increase impact on the Group, and the plans to majority of this increase was attributable rapidly if the aircraft is to achieve the procure additional F-18 aircraft as well as to the acquisition of Hi-Shear, Mecar and necessary operational protection.
send 1,400 more marines to Afghanistan are Roke during the year.
45% of the staff likely to increase demand for some of our Another major area of growth in the next are US-based, which is broadly in line with core products.
The US defence market is few years is naval countermeasures.
With the substantial and there is considerable scope These are designed to protect ships acquisition of Roke, the number of qualified for consolidation at lower tier positions against incoming missiles, particularly engineers and scientists employed by the in the supply chain.
We believe that there in circumstances when rapid-fire gun Group increased to over 600, about 14% are significant opportunities for growth systems cannot be used, such as in shallow of the Group.
in this market, both in 2011 and over the water next to other vessels.
The Group is longer-term future.
developing a range of new payloads to meet Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 9 The order book, healthy cash flow and a solid balance sheet give the Board confidence that the prospects for the Group in 2011 continue to be excellent.
the changing threat and is seeing a growing Pyrotechnics Outlook demand for both its current and next There continues to be strong interest in Overall, the future outlook remains generation products.
To satisfy the overall illuminating payloads for use in peacekeeping encouraging with many excellent protection requirement, the Group has also operations.
We are currently developing a opportunities for growth.
The Group has developed an innovative new launcher, black light payload for the 120mm mortar a strong order book, which at the end of called Centurion, that will significantly round, which will then complete our full the year stood at 803.3 million, up 44% enhance the effectiveness of the rounds.
range of illumination and black light mortar on the previous year.
Most of our products A prototype system has recently been products.
We have also developed some are short-cycle consumables with order demonstrated to the UK Ministry of Defence air-launched black light munitions that will coverage of between six and twelve months in a live-firing exercise, and we believe that be going through qualification in 2011. duration.
The order book does, therefore, it will be selected for qualification on the represent a reliable leading indicator of We have also seen strong demand for our Type 45 destroyer.
The global market for future revenues.
The order book, healthy components and sub-systems used in safety the product is expected to be substantial.
cash flow and a solid balance sheet give the systems on a variety of military platforms.
Board confidence that the prospects for the The order book for our Countermeasures One area of growing interest is egress and Group in 2011 continue to be excellent.
division increased by 14% to a new record fire suppression systems for Mine Resistant of 265.4 million, with a 44% increase in Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles that the order book for flares used on fast-jet are often used in peacekeeping operations.
Our US subsidiary, Kilgore, saw its Protection of the crew and easy escape order book grow by 95% to 115.8 million, from a vehicle on fire has become a major a level that is more than twice its 2010 priority and we are working with a number D J Price revenues, providing high levels of confidence of partners on satisfying both US and Chief Executive in achieving further growth in 2011 and 2012.
18 January 2011 Counter-IED The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics Our HMDS ground penetrating radar division reduced slightly to 171.9 million continues to operate successfully during but grew substantially in the US market.
counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and It provides confidence in the stable has saved the lives of many US and coalition prospects for 2011 even if the European soldiers.
The US Army has just placed an market continues to weaken.
order for another sixty four systems for Munitions delivery by the end of 2011.
This contract The naval ammunition market remains has a potential maximum value of stable with a growing number of ships built $78 million and will take the number of over the last five years that are fitted with HMDS systems delivered to the US and 40mm, 76mm or 127mm guns.
There is Canadian governments above two hundred considerable interest in our products from and forty.
The US Army is expecting to Middle East and South American customers.
place a multi-year sustainment contract, The French Navy expects to qualify a 76mm potentially worth in excess of $70 million operational round, with an insensitive per year, on NIITEK for the provision of explosive warhead, in 2011 and is expected spares, maintenance and training necessary to place a multi-year production contract to support the deployed systems.
The during the second half period.
acquisition of a next-generation system, The Middle East and South America are also involving more advanced multi-sensor growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and technology and data fusion, will probably be 115mm direct-fire ammunition.
In particular, announced towards the end of 2011 with a the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun is often fitted to the multi-year procurement awarded in 2012. light armoured vehicles prevalent in these The year end order book for our regions and offers the Group a substantial Counter-IED division was 99.3 million, opportunity to develop new customer 169% higher than the previous year.
Most of relationships and markets.
the current order book is for delivery by the The order book for the Munitions division end of July 2011.
The latest system order grew by 126% to 266.7 million, more and the multi-year sustainment contract than twice the 2010 revenue.
This provides should ensure that the prospects for growth confidence that the business will continue in 2011 continue to be positive.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
