N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW During some or all of the past year the majority of the worlds economies have been in recession and this presented the most challenging economic environment for business seen in over 50 years.
Whilst Chloride was not immune from these pressures, I am pleased to report that the Group has proved to be more resilient than many other industrial businesses and most of its major competitors.
In the shorter term we chose to maintain The establishment of a new business the focus on our customers, cash generation, in South Korea, with signicantorders and the careful management of our cost base.
We continued to manage the balance sheet prudently, keeping debt low and ensuring good The acquisition of Custom Power in headroom with our committed bank facilities.
Houston, Texas, to access the North American Energy markets for the TIM COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE Notwithstanding the economic environment, first time.
we remained confident of the long-term growth characteristics of our markets so we chose to The first year of full production at our Whilst Western Europe remains our core continue to invest carefully in the long-term manufacturing joint venture in Shenzhen, market, we maintained the good progress development of the business in pursuit of our China, which underpins product margins of recent years in increasing the exposure to objective of building a well-balanced secure .
These power business serving international markets.
economies now account for 33% of sales, A strategic investment in Newtech and the Group will continue to seek to increase By taking this dual approach, as well as Technology Holdings to improve access its presence in economies which show higher providing greater short-term resilience, we to the Hong Kong and China data growth potential.
have been able to ensure that the business is centre markets.
better positioned to grow as markets improve.
LONG-TERM GROWTH MARKETS The acquisition of EPS which provides Despite the poor short-term economic SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS specialised secure power solutions to environment, we remain confident in the We made excellent progress towards our longthe UK rail industry.
long-term growth characteristics of the term objective of building a well-balanced Secure Power market we serve.
Two very secure power business serving international The acquisition of AEES a leading player significant long-term global trends drive markets.
During the year, despite the poor in the energy and infrastructure markets growth in our markets: economic environment, important steps were operating in France and globally.
taken to continue the strategic development DIGITISATION: the sustained growth in the of the business.
These included: Further investments to expand our sales use of digital data and processing in nearly and service ofces in the Philippines, all aspects of government, commercial and The acquisition of a further 41% of DB the Middle East, Vietnam, Kazakhstan, leisure activity drives demand for secure Power in India to take our holding to 90%, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkey.
power solutions which protect mission-critical improving our position in this dynamic and processes and applications.
This phenomenon high-growth potential market.
is as prevalent in emerging countries as it is in the developed world.
