OvErviEW bUsinEss and FinanCial rEviEW gOvErnanCE FinanCial statEmEnts prOpErty pOrtFOliO HammErsOn plc annual rePOrt 2010 07 CHiEF ExECUtivEs Q&a Chief Executives Q&a david atkins, Chief Executive the business never stands still and there are always things we can do better.
2010 HIGHlIGHtS StrateGY What are the highlights of the results?
What have you learnt in your first full year Well Im obviously pleased that values as CeO?
The business never stands still and there have gone up this year, but there are a number of other important things behind are always things we can do better.
Im pleased with what we have achieved in that headline.
Like-for-like rental income is up by 3.5% and we have increased the 2010, but there are still many things that Iwant to do to improve our portfolio, our dividend by 3.2%.
At the property level, we have reduced vacancy to below 3%.
asset management and our relationships with customers and staff.
Looking at our financing we have net debt of 1.8 billion which resulted in gearing of What progress have you made 52% at the year-end, which positions us implementing the customer strategy?
well to take advantage of opportunities Weve made significant progress, but it in 2011. is far from over.
The first year was really about embedding the processes internally What were the operational highlights for the year?
and making sure that we had opened the lines of communication with customers to There were many things.
We successfully opened The Rock in Bury on behalf of ensure they understood what we are trying to do.
Were measuring that every year the administrators of Thornfield, and we had some significant signings into our with the customer survey, and Im hopeful that when we get the results of the 2010 portfolio, for example bringing Forever 21 into Bullring.
We also made good progress survey they will show an improvement, but also highlight areas where we can keep on our developments, such as starting work on Les Terrasses du Port, getting a getting better.
crucial planning consent for Brent Cross What is the strategy for the Company?
and submitting a detailed planning Our strategy is very clear: we focus on application for London Wall Place.
In line Weve made significant progress three things.
First, managing the assets with our stated strategy, we also sold a implementing our customer and the relationships with our customers number of assets where we felt there was strategy, but it is far from over.
to actively grow sales and income scope to reinvest for better returns.
Second, ensuring that we actively manage the portfolio so that we hold high quality assets offering superior returns.
Third, we operate within a prudent and flexible financial framework which allows us to be entrepreneurial and capitalise on opportunities at the property level.
To see a video of David Atkins interview go to www.
com ar 08 CHiEF ExECUtivEs Q&a What are the catalysts for starting uK retail OutlOOK We attract excellent developments?
With action being taken to tackle fiscal tenants into our Many of our retail customers are keen to deficits in both your markets, what is the shopping centres, retail expand into new, modern space in thriving outlook for your tenants?
It is clearly a difficult environment in retail environments in order to grow their own sales.
However, the outlook remains which our customers are operating, but the prime nature of our assets means that mixed for many retailers, and whilst we are developing in France and have had we attract excellent tenants into our shopping centres, retail parks and offices.
expressions of interest at sensible rental levels from some UK retailers, we cannot Im by no means complacent, but our retail assets attract some of the most start a new retail scheme until we have sufficient confidence in the depth of retail successful fashion, home and catering brands, and I think that our results show demand in an area commencing an uneconomic scheme is simply not in the that we are well positioned to thrive in these challenging conditions.
interests of our shareholders, our retail customers or our council partners.
What are the biggest challenges facing the business in 2011?
What are your areas of focus this year?
The biggest challenges are macro action Having been a net seller in 2010 Im looking to tackle government deficits domestically, for opportunities to add to our portfolio, concerns over sovereign debt defaults in but only if we can find reasonably priced Europe and the growing tensions caused assets that offer us the opportunity to by global trade imbalances.
All of these use our skills to increase returns.
The factors make us cautious about the drive to improve the performance of our outlook, but I believe that our regionally existing properties is ongoing, as is the dominant shopping centres will continue progression of our significant development to outperform the sector.
I believe that pipeline to ensure that we can capitalise the City of London is also in strong shape on those opportunities when the demand and that as a business not only are we is there.
In terms of relationships, I want to well positioned to withstand further demonstrate the value this year of some of economic instability, but to benefit relative the important hires we made in 2010 and to our sector.
also continue to improve the internal communication with staff.
