Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Chief Executives review Overview of the year We have delivered earnings growth in challenging markets.
Good revenue growth in certain Strategic Business Units was masked by order slippages on significant defence and security programmes and some continuing softness in certain commercial markets.
We have made encouraging progress on our operational improvement programme, Excellence in Delivery, and achieved cost savings which have contributed to 5% earnings growth from flat Group revenue.
The Group order book had increased at the year end to 2.5bn 2009: 2.4bn with the increase attributable to the Technology Divisions.
In all three Technology Divisions there has been improved order intake, with an aggregate 7% increase in orders received at constant translation exchange rates.
Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer The Group has been selected on a number of important new multi-year programmes and platforms and has also won further work on existing platforms, which will result in incremental orders being placed over many years.
These include the CH-53K helicopter, the Aegis surveillance and fire control Highlights radar system, the F-35 fighter aircraft and the US Missile Defence Agency Support Services MiDAESS umbrella contract.
In addition, Cobham has continued to win positions in faster growing Order intake in Technology Divisions geographies, with the Chinese C919 commercial aircraft, the Indian Air Force Hawk advanced jet up 7% at constant translation exchange trainer, the indigenous Korean Utility Helicopter and significant programmes in the Middle East.
and important awards on long term programmes Despite good underlying progress in many of their markets, the overall growth in both Defence Systems and Avionics and Surveillance was impacted by delays in certain significant US defence Over 10m of efficiencies, including savings and security awards, with continued softness in some of Avionics and Surveillances commercial from the on track Excellence in Delivery markets.
Group revenue was up 1% in the year with the Mission Systems Division delivering strong programme organic growth, driven by revenue from next generation air refuelling pods.
The Aviation Services Division delivered strong organic growth largely from its Australian operations.
Three acquisitions totalling US$175m completed in homeland security markets The Groups trading margin increased 0.4% points to 18.3% driven by the Technology Divisions, in 2010 and early 2011 where the margin increased 0.5% points to 19.0%.
The improved margin was driven by cost efficiencies from Excellence in Delivery, efficiencies from facilities previously integrated during 2009 and 2010 and ongoing procurement savings, but was partially offset by weaker trading volumes in some businesses.
A few PV private venture or company funded research and development R&D programmes were temporarily slowed where customer launches and demand from products were down in some subdued markets.
Strategy update The Groups strategy is to build and maintain leading market positions in selected high growth, high technology markets.
Cobhams chosen markets overlap significantly with the priorities set out in the Order book US Governments Quadrennial Defence Review and with the UK Governments Strategic Defence and Security Review, both of which were published in 2010.
These documents attribute particular importance to C4ISR capabilities, where Cobham has built good positions as part of its strategy.
2.5bn The Groups strategy will be underpinned by delivery of three strategic objectives: technology 2009: 2.4bn investment, operational excellence and portfolio optimisation.
Technology investment Investment in technology is pivotal to developing and bringing to market products that are We have long term in high demand and at the leading edge of technology.
During 2010 important and long term opportunities have been in development or have been brought to market which will generate positions in attractive revenue for the Group over a sustained period: markets with superior growth Fifth generation air refuelling pods have now been certified, along with the Airbus Military A330 and we are focusing our Multi Role Transport Tanker, for the Royal Australian Air Force.
These pods are likely to be in technology investment and service for the next 40 to 50 years and will generate recurring revenue for the Group.
In early 2011, Cobhams air refuelling systems were also selected on the important new KC-46A tanker acquisition strategy in areas for the US Air Force: of customer priority.
Selection by Northrop Grumman to provide an aerial refuelling system, integration and expertise to support the autonomous air refuelling of the KQ-X Global Hawk programme to 2012: Successful demonstration to the US Army of a 100 user radio system for the Wireless Network after Next WNaN programme: www.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Chief Executives review continued Launch of the Wireless Sensor Network Node or Nugget, a fully portable and networked unattended ground sensor for covert surveillance and asset protection applications: and Launch of Cobhams lightest, smallest and lowest cost SwiftBroadband solution, the unique SB200, for a new market of smaller aircraft.
This enables satellite connectivity for data networks, internet, email and telephony.
Operational excellence Cobhams operational improvement and efficiency programme, Excellence in Delivery, involves rolling out a standard operating framework across 14 principal sites, integrating smaller production facilities, establishing standard processes in a standard Enterprise Planning Resource system and setting up shared service centres.
Excellence in Delivery will bring a number of benefits including improved productivity, shortened manufacturing lead times, improved quality and reduced working capital.
It will also simplify the business, improve focus on the customer and enhance internal communication and collaboration.
The locations of the principal sites, which are expected to cover 80% of manufacturing profit by Haiti relief the end of the programme, have been communicated and work is already underway to implement Cobham donated use of its rugged the Groups standard operating framework in six of the sites.
The Group has accelerated its portable satellite communications integration plans for 2011, including the closure of three facilities, which will be integrated into systems to connect emergency services existing sites, and the integration of a further six facilities into two new sites.
The first of the in the aftermath of the Haiti earthquake integrations has been completed.
Cobhams antenna technology is also part of the UK-DMC disaster By the end of 2013, the Group expects benefits from Excellence in Delivery at a run-rate of monitoring satellite, part of a constellation 65m per annum, at a total cost of 131m.
Progress on the programme together with other that images natural disasters such as cost measures has delivered efficiency savings of over 10m in 2010.
The Excellence in Delivery the 2008 California wildfires.
efficiency savings were primarily achieved through headcount reductions and facility overhead savings.
In line with previous guidance, the Group expects to deliver further cost savings from Excellence in Delivery of 21m in 2011.
Portfolio optimisation The Groups strategy is to acquire businesses that deliver technologies or capabilities that will help it build scale in its chosen markets, accelerate organic growth and reinforce the value added content of its products.
In addition, the Group plans to exit certain businesses and product lines representing up to 15% of its technology revenue that have sub-scale positions or which do not otherwise fit the Groups strategy.
The Group has strict financial criteria and a disciplined approach to investments and disposals.
Progress in 2010 was as follows: Completion of the previously announced acquisition of RVision Inc. on 30 December 2010 for up to US$48m in cash: and The divestment in September 2010 of Satori SAS, trading as Cobham Maintenance Repair and Overhaul, for 7.9m.
This progress has continued since the year end: In January 2011, the acquisition of Telerob GmbH, a manufacturer of advanced bomb disposal robots based in Germany for homeland security applications, for 78m in cash and loan notes was completed: The acquisition of Corp Ten International was completed in February 2011 for up to US$24m in cash.
The company develops software which allows multiple tracking devices to be managed within a single system: and In February 2011, the divestment of the Engineering Consultancy Group for 13.5m.
To date the Group has realised proceeds of 29m from the sale of Satori, the Engineering Consultancy business and the sale of part of the Wimborne, UK site.
The Groups strategy is to finance bolt-in acquisitions from free cash flow generated after dividend payments and larger transactions from existing debt capacity.
Andy Stevens Chief Executive Officer, 2 March 2011 6 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview
