Chief Executives statement Reported revenue has grown by 7.6% in the year, 4.7% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and disposals, organic revenue growth was 3.2% for the year.
Very encouragingly, Delivering in 2010, we have seen a gradual improvement in the rate of new business wins to 9.5%.
The Group operating margin has increased by 40 basis points in 2010, taking the total improvement over the last four years to 250 basis our strategy points.
In the earlier years, this was achieved by turning around or exiting loss making contracts and countries, and removing divisions and layers of unnecessary cost.
We are now embedding the MAP framework deeper in the business, resulting in more efficient processes throughout our operations.
This, together with the ability to leverage our overheads with a growing revenue base, underpins our expectation of further steady progress in the margin.
We have delivered 92 million of constant currency operating profit growth as follows: 38 million of net new business growth In the last four quarters we have seen an increase in new business wins throughout the Group, reaching 10% for the second half of the year.
We have refocused the business on growth, invested in sales resource where needed and reflected the change in focus in our employee incentive plans.
Over the year, retention has improved slightly to 93.2%.
This reflects fewer bankruptcies and corporate failures as well as the increased investment in retention.
The Strategic Alliance Group, our best practice model for retention created in the USA, is continuing to gain real traction across the Group.
24 million of base estate profit growth Like for like growth Like for like revenues are now showing clear signs of stabilisation as We are excited by the growth opportunities headcounts at our client sites level off and the sharp reduction in we have around the world.
We continue event catering and corporate hospitality begins to abate.
However, we continue to see little evidence of real employment growth in our major to be relentless in our pursuit of operating markets and we are, therefore, expecting little immediate improvement efficiency and, in an environment where in like for like revenues.
cost remains high on the agenda, we are Cost efficiencies well placed to deliver quality food and We have continued to deliver productivity and efficiency savings from both food and other unit costs.
Our focus on MAP 3 cost of food has support services solutions to our clients.
delivered further gross margin improvement through ongoing initiatives including the rationalisation of our product and supplier base, supply chain optimisation and Trim Trax, our waste reduction programme.
Menu planning remains a real opportunity going forward, developing a more consistent high quality offer, delivered in a more efficient way.
In MAP 4 unit costs, we have made some modest improvements in labour productivity and continue to reduce unnecessary unit overhead spend.
Whilst we have made further progress, we believe there is still Richard Cousins much more to do.
Group Chief Executive 20 million of above unit cost savings We have made further solid progress in the area of above unit costs MAP 5 which, excluding the impact of acquisitions, have been reduced by a further 20 million in the year.
In addition to taking cost out, we continue to redeploy resources from back of house to sales and operations, supporting our top line growth.
Between 2005 and 2010 we have reduced our above unit costs by over 100 million around 10%, whilst at the same time growing revenue by over 20%.
We continue to strive to remove inefficient processes and to operate with flatter organisational structures.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 10 million from acquisitions net of disposals and other We continue to focus on efficiencies, but also believe that a more This relates mainly to the incremental operating profit after integration sustainable business model will be based upon reinvestment of some costs from the acquisitions of Kimco and Southeast Service of these efficiencies in revenue growth.
Our focus, therefore, is to Corporation in the USA, Hurley Corporation in Canada, Plural in strike the right balance between delivering healthy top line growth and Germany, Caterine Restauration in France and a number of McColls steady margin expansion.
Outlook Strategy Compass has delivered another year of strong performance, despite Our strategy remains unchanged: to continue to focus on foodservice the continuing challenging economic conditions.
The return to organic whilst building on the fast growth in our support services business.
Our scale within countries enables us to drive efficiencies: our global reach and capability allow us to successfully bid for significant Looking forward, Compass is well placed to exploit the significant outsourcing opportunities around the world and to serve multinational structural growth opportunity in both food and support services clients.
Sectorisation is a fundamental part of our strategy and we around the world.
The pipeline of new business is strong and in an have built big businesses in all of the key market sectors.
environment where cost efficiency remains high on the agenda, we believe the benefits of outsourcing are clear.
Our business model also remains unchanged: to deliver attractive levels of organic revenue growth whilst driving sustainable profit and Our relentless focus on operating efficiency should enable us to margin improvement.
In combination with disciplined capital spend continue to reinvest in growth whilst delivering steady margin and tight control over working capital, this should result in strong cash expansion.
In addition, the strength of our cash flow is enabling us flows.
We will continue to invest in further growth, both organically and both to reward shareholders and to accelerate growth through value in value creating infill acquisitions.
We believe this will deliver real value creating infill acquisitions.
Our confidence in the future is reflected to our shareholders.
in the Boards decision to rebase the dividend with an increase of 33% for the full year.
Our biggest growth engine in absolute terms is the USA, where we have an excellent business and the culture is receptive to outsourcing.
Richard Cousins We have considerable scope to continue to grow in the other Group Chief Executive developed economies around the globe where we operate and the 24 November 2010 increasing demand for multi-services in these markets is providing a further engine for growth.
Importantly, 17% of our business is now in fast growing and emerging economies.
These markets offer the opportunity of double-digit revenue growth.
The foodservice opportunity remains significant, with outsource penetration rates of under 50% in the 200 billion industry.
In soft support services, the market is similar in size and only 38% outsourced.
We see scope to increase the level of support services business both through further bundling with foodservice and the increasing trend to outsourcing.
We are building our global competence with platforms being established to deliver a multi-service offer to the Healthcare, Business & Industry and Education sectors.
Today, multi-services makes up 20% of the Groups revenues, with significant new multi-service business won again this year.
With acquisitions, our strong preference is for small to medium sized businesses in our existing geographies.
Foodservice acquisitions will be underpinned by our desire to grow the Healthcare and Education sectors and to create scale, particularly in our emerging countries.
Our support services strategy is to build capability across our businesses and to facilitate cross-selling activity.
In 2010, we spent 205 million on acquisitions including the foodservice businesses of Tirumala Hospitality Services in India and Caterine Restauration in France and the support services businesses of IDA Services in Denmark, the VSG Group in the UK, Clean Mall in Brazil, Southeast Service Corporation in the USA and Hurley Corporation in Canada.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 13 11 : 24 So Paulo, Brazil Delivering foodservice for businesses around the world Brazil, one of our exciting new growth markets, leads the way in efficient, sustainable menu planning, offering varied and innovative meal choices to our consumers in their workplace.
We focus on supply chain synergies and minimising food waste to enable us to pass on efficiencies to our clients.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 12 : 1 1 Paris, France Delivering wellbalanced nutrition Our Eat-Learn-Live philosophy fuels the development of young minds and bodies from kindergarten to college with a nutritious, well-balanced diet.
The programme offers healthy menu options, fun activities for educating children about diet and lifestyle and a commitment to sustainability and good environmental practices.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 15 Chief Executives statement continued Regional performance North America Revenue by sector Business & Industry 29% Education 24% 44% Healthcare & Seniors 26% of Group revenue Sports & Leisure 14% 2009: 43% Defence, Offshore & Remote 7% 6,369m 7.7% 491m 5.8% Revenue Operating margin Operating profit Organic revenue growth 2009: 5,806m 2009: 7.5% 2009: 438m 2009: 1.6% In the Education sector, new business has remained strong and Our North American business has delivered we have delivered double-digit organic revenue growth.
The recent an excellent performance.
acquisition of Southeast Service Corporation, a support services provider, has enabled us to extend our range of support services Revenues were 6.4 billion 2009: 5.8 billion, with organic growth to the Education sector, as well as further enhancing our support of 5.8%.
Operating profit increased by 49 million, 11% on a constant services capability in the Business & Industry and Healthcare sectors.
currency basis, to 491 million 2009: 442 million on a constant We have recently won the foodservice contracts for the Adams currency basis.
The efficiency initiatives implemented throughout County Schools district in Colorado covering over 10,000 students, the previous year have flowed into the current year, contributing to the Rochester Community Schools district and Andrews University, a full year margin improvement of 20 basis points on a constant one of the oldest educational establishments in Michigan.
In Levy, our Sports & Leisure business, double-digit new business The Business & Industry sector has delivered solid results despite and excellent retention, combined with a continued focus on cost continuing pressure on like for like volumes and the consumer efficiencies, has contributed to a solid performance.
Exciting wins demand for value with good new business wins and retention.
include a significant contract at the Boston Convention & Exhibition The trading environment remains challenging.
Increased focus Center and John B. Hynes Veterans Memorial Convention Center, on marketing and retail analysis to drive participation and spend, which has the capacity of serving 30,000 meals per day, the Amway combined with tight cost management, has enabled the sector to Center home to the Orlando Magic of the NBA and the Orlando deliver another year of increased profit.
New contract wins include Predators of the AFL and the Xcel Energy Center, a multi-purpose The Gates Foundations new campus site and Amazon.
coms HQ, arena in Minnesota.
both located in Seattle, and Sun Microsystems, part of the larger Oracle contract.
In Canada, we have recently commenced operations for Vale Inco, a leading producer of nickel, providing multi-services to a large In Healthcare, our support services offer, strengthened by recent remote camp in Newfoundland.
We have also won the Ontario acquisitions, has contributed to the delivery of good new business Power Generation food supply contract.
The integration of Hurley wins as well as excellent levels of retention.
For example, we have Corporation, a soft support services provider acquired earlier in the recently been appointed to provide support services to The Northeast year, is proceeding well.
Health System, an integrated healthcare system near Boston, and HCA in West Florida, which has a comprehensive network of hospitals and medical facilities.
16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Continental Europe Revenue by sector Business & Industry 61% Education 13% 24% Healthcare & Seniors 16% of Group revenue Sports & Leisure 4% 2009: 25% Defence, Offshore & Remote 6% 3,506m 7.1% 248m 0.1% Revenue Operating margin Operating profit Organic revenue growth 2009: 3,429m 2009: 6.8% 2009: 232m 2009: 1.1 % In Germany, good progress has been made on margin development Economic conditions in parts of Continental despite challenging trading conditions in key sectors.
In Business & Europe remained quite challenging during Industry we have won exciting new contracts with Accenture GmbH to provide foodservice to both staff and clients and with IBM to provide the year.
foodservice including Shop2go and Dallucci retail outlets.
At Philips Medical Systems in Hamburg, we are now servicing a staff restaurant, Whilst we have generally seen increasing levels of new business, like providing hospitality services and managing the employee shops.
for like volumes in the Business & Industry sector have been difficult.
Overall, revenue in Continental Europe totalled 3.5 billion 2009: The Nordic region has seen strong new business wins in both food 3.4 billion and organic growth is broadly flat at 0.1%.
Management and multi-services, including the Sundsvall campus at Mid Sweden of the flexible cost base and ongoing efficiency gains resulted in University and Capgemini Norge AS in Norway.
In Denmark, the operating profit of 248 million 2009: 235 million on a constant recent acquisition of IDA Service A S, a multi-service business, is currency basis, an increase of 6%, and a margin improvement of providing both cross-selling opportunities and synergies.
Italy has once again delivered an encouraging margin improvement New contract wins include prominent wins in Education such as the and has gained further significant support service business with University of Lucerne in Switzerland, Fontys University of Applied Trenitalia and Rete Ferroviaria Italiana Italian Railways.
Also, in Sciences and the Eindhoven University of Technology, both in the addition to extending our important foodservice contract with the Netherlands.
New business has also been particularly encouraging in major global oil and gas group Eni, we have successfully widened Russia, where we have now extended our business to St. Petersburg.
our relationship with them by being awarded our first offshore contract In Turkey, we have secured some very significant wins including Turk in the Adriatic Sea.
Telekom and nationwide food and support services for Sabanci Group.
The Spanish business has had the backdrop of particularly difficult In France, we have won the contract to cater for the public at economic conditions: however, there are signs that volumes are Roland-Garros, the French Open, and a new contract to serve 2,400 gradually becoming more stable.
Simplification of the management meals daily at Credit Agricole.
Integration of Caterine Restauration, structure and further improvements in purchasing and logistics acquired earlier in the year, is progressing well and this business has processes are providing a solid base for future growth.
Notable wins further strengthened our position in the Education and Healthcare in the year include ISBAN, part of the Santander Group, and a multifoodservice sectors.
A focus on driving cost efficiencies, particularly site contract with Mapfre Quavitae.
in the supply chain and through waste reduction initiatives, has moved the margin forward.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 17 Chief Executives statement continued Regional performance UK & Ireland Revenue by sector Business & Industry 48% Education 12% 12 % Healthcare & Seniors 13% of Group revenue Sports & Leisure 15% 2009: 14% Defence, Offshore & Remote 12% 1,782m 6.4% 114m 3.3 % Revenue Operating margin Operating profit Organic revenue growth 2009: 1,829m 2009: 6.2% 2009: 114m 2009: 5.4 % We have seen good growth in the Healthcare sector, through Encouragingly, we have seen some increasing levels of new business wins and good like for like volume progressive improvement in organic revenue growth.
The extension of our Healthcare retail offer has been a significant driver of this growth.
The introduction of Steamplicity, the trends in the UK & Ireland business, from Spice of Life brand and the Medirest Way at the Homerton Hospital a 5.7% decline in the first half of the year supported our retention of this important contract to provide both food and soft support services.
to only a 1% decline in the second half.
Our work over the last few years in the Education sector is continuing This is despite challenging economic conditions continuing to impact to deliver benefits.
We have recently won a prestigious new contract like for like volumes in the Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure with Rugby School, one of the leading independent schools in the sectors.
The improvement is driven by a slight acceleration in new country, and retained our contracts with Sevenoaks School and business wins and improvement in the rate of retention.
We have continued to make progress on productivity revenues were 1.8 billion 2009: 1.8 billion.
We have continued where a focus on labour hours and unit overheads have driven margin to work hard across the business, moving resources closer to clients improvements.
and consumers and streamlining back office activities.
This has improved margins by 20 basis points.
Operating profit remained flat We have continued our success in winning new business in the at 114 million 2009: 114 million.
For example, we have won a new contract with the Barbican in London where we now operate a number of In the Business & Industry sector we have continued to win high public restaurants and have extended our contract with ExCel London quality new business in both catering and support services.
For to service the exhibition areas and new retail sites as well as the example, we have won the contract to cater for 10,000 Virgin Media hospitality services.
We have a continued focus on costs, particularly employees across 17 locations and renewed our contract with the labour and in unit overheads, to mitigate the impact on profit of the Bank of England to provide staff catering, executive dining and decline in hospitality revenues that the sector has seen over the last hospitality.
We have continued to focus on driving labour cost 18 months.
efficiencies, reducing the overall cost significantly.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Rest of the World Revenue by sector Business & Industry 38% Education 5% 20% Healthcare & Seniors 10% of Group revenue Sports & Leisure 12% 2009: 18% Defence, Offshore & Remote 35% 2,811m 7.3% 204m 6.1% Revenue Operating margin Operating profit Organic revenue growth 2009: 2,380m 2009: 6.3% 2009: 151m 2009: 2.3% With the large Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure sectors Our Rest of the World businesses have in Japan, revenue growth during the year has been a challenge.
delivered strong organic revenue growth However, excellent progress on control of costs, for example labour hours and consolidating suppliers and products, has delivered of 6.1%.
a further 100 basis points improvement in the margin.
Operating profit increased by 33 million, or 19.3%, on a constant In Brazil, strong new business wins and improving like for like revenues currency basis to 204 million 2009: 171 million on a constant have delivered double-digit organic revenue growth.
The margin has increased by 90 basis points on continues to look strong and retention remains a key focus.
The margin a constant currency basis to 7.3% and this is now in line with the has increased, reflecting the continued drive for efficiencies across all Groups other geographic regions.
Going forward, the Rest of the cost lines.
The acquisition of the support service specialist Clean Mall World margin growth is now expected to progress more in line with earlier in the year continues to be integrated into the business.
This the other geographic regions.
acquisition has enhanced our ability to provide a multi-service offer to clients, particularly in the Business & Industry and Healthcare sectors.
We are continuing to see good levels of new business wins across most countries in the region, including new contracts with Kinross In South Africa, encouraging levels of new business have been Mining in Chile and Kimberley Clark in Argentina.
The drive for achieved especially in the Education sector with exciting wins such overhead efficiencies, coupled with restructuring programmes, as The University of Venda and the Central University of Technology.
has contributed to the excellent margin progression.
The combined number of students on site in these two institutions is over 24,000.
Good organic revenue growth in Australia has been driven by strong levels of new business wins across all sectors.
In the remote site sector, which Our UAE based business has delivered improved margins reflecting a comprises the majority of the business, we have been awarded new focus on efficiency, especially in food and logistics.
Growth in support contracts to provide a wide range of food and support services by services remains strong with large contract wins contributing to CITIC Pacific Mining at the Eramurra village near Fortescue River and double-digit organic revenue growth.
by Wesfarmers Curragh at their Central Queensland mine.
The Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital awarded us a new multi-service contract in Our businesses serving the energy and extraction sectors, which have the Healthcare sector, which continues to provide excellent opportunities a focus on blue chip international clients, have continued to deliver for future growth.
Australia has delivered further margin improvement in solid double-digit organic revenue growth and maintained excellent the year by focusing on all areas of MAP, for example, implementing Trim retention rates.
Trax, the Groups waste reduction programme, reducing labour turnover and increasing focus on reducing discretionary overhead spend.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 19 Consolidated financial statements 1 3:05 London, UK Delivering culinary excellence Working in partnership with some of the worlds most renowned and innovative chefs, including Albert Roux, Michel Roux Jr, Gary Rhodes, Tom Aikens and Jason Atherton in the UK and Ed Brown, Cary Neff and Wolfgang Puck in the USA, we bring exceptional gastronomic creativity to executive dining rooms and world famous venues.
20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Delivering service excellence to clients around the world 13 :27 We implement standardised processes through our world-leading operating Toronto, Canada platform for support services, the Compass Service Framework, driving consistency and continuity across multi-site contracts.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 21
