06 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT The positive momentum from 2010 at both Aegis Media and Synovate has continued into 2011.
A year of outperformance ensuring good forward momentum Aegis delivered robust results in 2010, during which we saw a return to growth in advertising and market research.
07 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2.
Strengthening our product portfolio and service range, Aegis delivered a robust set of financial results in 2010, during including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media In 2010, which we saw a return to growth in advertising and market Aegis Media and Synovate management reviewed and research, with both Aegis Media and Synovate outperforming optimised their respective product portfolios and service their respective markets.
This will ensure we are well placed to meet the needs We took significant steps in delivering on our objectives for our of clients operating across a range of different markets, using two businesses: positioning Aegis Media for a more convergent a wide range of media and research platforms for their evermedia environment and consolidating Synovates position in a changing requirements.
We made good progress in increasing our exposure to both faster-growing regions and digital media At Aegis Media, our digital capability is at the heart of our platforms and we aim to increase this exposure further in the strategy, with digital contributing approximately 32% of Aegis future, supported by the delivery of continued organic revenue Medias revenue in 2010.
Going foward, we expect the growth and an on-going focus on acquisitions in these areas.
proportion of digital revenues to continue to grow as a result of continued acquisitions and anticipated organic growth from Our strong operational and financial performance in 2010 was our existing businesses in this area.
In addition, to meet testament to the hard work and commitment of our people and, increased client need for improved accountability, in my first year as Aegiss CEO, I am grateful to all of our people performance measurement and returns on investment, we for their continued support.
This performance, together with have ensured that data management and platforms at both good new business momentum at Aegis Media and Synovates businesses continue to be fully integrated into our product healthy orders on hand position going into 2011, ensures the and service offerings.
Also in 2010, our market-leading CCS Group is well placed for the future.
Consumer Connection System insight product was extended into 27 markets around the world.
Delivering on key strategic objectives in 2010 We have high quality, focused senior management teams at both Aegis Media 3.
Building on our leading market positions and increasing our and Synovate which were further strengthened by a number of presence in key markets, reflecting client needs We key appointments and promotions in 2010.
The management continue to build on our leading market positions, whilst also teams have the right balance of energy and experience to growing our presence in key markets, reflecting the needs of develop our businesses going forward.
In 2010, we were focused our clients.
In 2010, we achieved this organically at both on delivering six key strategic objectives: businesses, as exemplified by strong performances in North 1.
Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure America and faster-growing regions.
We also improved our to faster-growing regions: position in certain markets via acquisition, as illustrated by the Mitchell transaction in Australia and our agreement to 2.
Strengthening our product portfolio and service range, acquire a majority stake in COMCON, a leading Russian including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media: market research business, announced in December 2010.
As a result, we are now the leading player in the Australian 3.
Building on our leading market positions and increasing our media market and we will become the second largest custom presence in key markets, reflecting client needs: research provider in Russia.
Developing international clients and building new business 4.
Developing international clients and building new business momentum: momentum In 2010, new business momentum remained 5.
Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and strong at both businesses.
Last year, Aegis Media delivered financial criteria: and over $2.0 billion in net new business wins, including a number of new international assignments such as Beiersdorf 6.
Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit in the US and Germany, ING in Italy and France and Deutsche margins.
Aegis Media succeeded in winning 99 We will continue to focus on these key strategic objectives, additional market appointments from our major international ensuring our businesses remain well positioned for future clients, including Diageo, Nokia, Kelloggs and Disney.
Synovate was also successful in winning a number of major multi-national projects around the world in 2010, for 1.
Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure companies including Unilever, Coca-Cola and HSBC.
In to faster-growing regions Our geographic profile has addition, client retention at both businesses was very good changed significantly over the last five years, demonstrated during the year.
This successful trend for both businesses has by our increased presence in the faster-growing regions of continued so far in 2011, with $1.5 billion of net new business Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle wins already achieved at Aegis Media and a strong orders on East and Africa over this period.
Last year, Group revenue hand position at Synovate at the start of the year.
contribution from these regions increased to 33%, from 20% in 2006, following the acquisition of Mitchell Communication 5.
Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and Group Mitchell, Australias leading marketing financial criteria Given our strong balance sheet and improved communications agency in November 2010. debt profile, we are able to re-focus on acquisitions with a view to extending our capabilities and driving growth.
We have Mitchell, Aegiss largest acquisition in 11 years, along been and will continue to target acquisitions which provide with our investment in, and joint venture with, Charm scale, infill and innovation, with a focus on small to mediumCommunications Inc Charm, one of Chinas leading media sized bolt-ons in both faster growing regions and digital.
buying and advertising agencies, give us a significantly strengthened base from which to further improve our already All acquisition targets are evaluated against strategic and strong position in the Asia Pacific region.
investment criteria, including management and cultural fit, the delivery of good returns against financial hurdles and earnings accretion in the first full year after they are completed.
BUSINESS REVIEW 08 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued The acquisition of Mitchell is a good example.
There is a Managements re-focused strategic approach bolstered Aegis strong strategic and cultural fit and we expect the transaction Medias performance in 2010 Aegis Medias management team to be earnings accretive in 2011 at current exchange rates by implemented a re-focused strategic approach in 2010, the Power low to mid-single digits.
This is despite Mitchell shareholders Brand strategy, based on delivering a consistent range of taking up the maximum allotment of Aegis shares available services integrated across one operating model through Carat, as part of the consideration for the transaction.
Vizeum, Posterscope, isobar and iProspect on a network basis.
This re-focused strategic approach helped to support our 6.
Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit performance in 2010 and will continue to do so going forward.
margins Emerging from recession, upward pressure on staff costs is a growing feature as we ensure competitive Aegis Media delivered organic revenue growth of 5.7% in 2010, salaries, increase headcount to support new business and with 7.4% organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter of the re-introduce incentives to retain key staff to support the growth year.
This was supported by another excellent new business of our business.
Total overheads were up 5.3% at constant performance, with net new business wins of $2.0 billion in currency during the year.
To counter these cost pressures, billings.
Operating margin was 18.6%, up 40 basis points at we will maintain a clear focus on cost control and efficiencies reported rates and 60 basis points at constant currency.
This focus is a key part of our culture, Our businesses in faster-growing regions performed extremely with management incentives aligned to margin performance.
Our North American management team achieved further progress in revitalising our businesses there, while the Strong operating and financial performance by Aegis in 2010 health of Western European markets remained mixed.
Aegiss robust underlying operational performance in 2010, supported by management focus on these strategic objectives, Operational delivery was also driven by our excellent new business translated into a strong set of financial results.
New business wins were characterised by Total revenue for the year was 1,459.4m, up 8.4% at reported a return to a strong competitive position in the US, with Beiersdorf, rates and up 6.4% at constant currency.
Organic revenue growth Diageo, Relativity Media and Red Bull won during the year.
Towards for the Group was 5.8%, driven in particular by strong top line the end of the year, our North American team was also successful growth from our businesses in North America and fasterin renewing our long-standing Pfizer Wyeth contract.
around the world new business wins included Disney in Australia, Tiffany across Asia Pacific, Orange in Spain, Nokia As was expected at the half year stage, both businesses in the Middle East and Anheuser Busch InBev in the UK.
This delivered a continuing trend of improvement in organic growth new business momentum has continued into 2011, with a in the second half, compared to the first half.
As we anticipated, number of wins already recorded so far this year including a combination of more challenging prior year revenue growth Disney and Home Depot in North America, Fastweb in Italy, Kraft comparatives in the fourth quarter and the relative revenue Cadbury in South Africa and Electronic Arts across Latin America.
weighting between the third and fourth quarters meant the trend rate of organic revenue growth was impacted in the fourth Aegis Medias performance in 2011 and beyond will be supported quarter of the year: by the acquisition of Mitchell, which was completed in November 2010.
The combination of Aegis Medias global network and Aegis delivered a strong improvement in underlying operating profit Mitchells outstanding capabilities in the Pacific region will for the year to 192.2m, an increase of 12.9% from the prior year create a compelling offering for clients, positioning us for at reported rates, and 12.3% at constant currency.
There was a continued growth in the wider Asia Pacific region.
modest improvement in Group operating margin to 13.2% during 2010, an increase of 60 basis points from the prior year.
Our underlying earnings per share on a fully diluted basis increased by 5.2% at reported rates and 4.1% at constant currency, to 10.1p from 9.6p in the prior year.
Aegis Group Quarter Half year Full Year Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10 Organic revenue change % 1.1 4.7 9.7 7.0 3.2 8.1 5.8 09 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strong performance recovery at Synovate Following the global Outlook Our clients advertising and research expenditure for economic downturn in 2009, which had a significant impact on the first few months of this year is ahead of the same period in the ad hoc custom market research sector, 2010 saw a strong 2010, and their current indicated budgets for the remainder of recovery in performance at Synovate.
Sales rose 6.7%, with organic 2011 suggest that this year-on-year trend will continue.
In gross revenue increasing 5.9%, with organic gross revenue addition, the momentum Aegis has built through 2010 has growth of 6.3% in the fourth quarter.
Our strong performance continued into the first few months of 2011, with Aegis Media in the second half, drove operating margin to 8.0%, up 90 basis winning $1.5bn in net new business so far this year and Synovate points at reported rates and at constant currency.
starting the year with a healthy orders on hand position.
Managements clear focus on driving profitable sales, supported Given these positive signals for the short term outlook, and in by a broad geographic network and extensive product portfolio, spite of the relatively limited medium term visibility, we are ensured an encouraging performance from Synovate in 2010, increasingly optimistic about the prospects for our businesses with a healthy 8.8% underlying increase in orders on hand this year.
We therefore expect Group organic revenue growth for achieved at year end.
Performances from the vast majority of 2011 to be at least in line with the level achieved last year.
businesses across the Synovate network performed very well We experienced upward pressure on staff costs at both in 2010, particularly our business in North America.
businesses in the second half of 2010.
This will continue in 2011, With a strong foundation now in place, management is with increasing headcount and pay reviews particularly in high implementing a re-focused strategic approach to improve growth regions, as well as an increase in bonuses where Synovates long term position in the global custom market performance justifies.
research sector around the world.
This strategic approach Despite these cost pressures, given the Groups momentum and aims to increase traction and build momentum with key global our expectations for organic revenue growth this year, we expect clients, provide competitive differentiation through operational underlying operating profit to improve further in 2011. excellence, prioritise gateway geographies which represent key markets for international projects and expand our existing capabilities in key industrial verticals and research methodologies.
The implementation of the first phase of this re-focused strategic approach across the organisation will be completed by the end of 2011.
Jerry Buhlmann Balance sheet strengthened & capital discipline maintained Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc During 2010, we took a number of actions to strengthen our financial position.
In April 2010, we launched a convertible bond, due in April 2015, to raise 190.6m, including the exercise of an over-allotment option.
In July 2010, we re-financed our 450.0m revolving credit facility, lengthening its tenure to 2015.
Net debt fell from 398.4m at the end of the first half to 331.3m at the end of 2010, a year-on-year increase of 74.1m from the end of 2009.
This increase was mainly due to acquisition spend, partially offset by strong operating cash flows in the second half of 2010.
Our covenant positions remain robust and we had undrawn available facilities at the end of the year totalling 450.0m 2009: 376.4m.
Looking ahead, we aim to ensure that capital continues to be sensibly allocated and our cash pools remain well managed.
