10 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 DireCTOrS rePOrT: OVERVIEW Chief exeCuTiveS review imPrOving OCCuPanCy aCrOSS The POrTfOliO OUR PRIMARy FOCUS In 2010 WAS On REDUCInG VACAnCy AnD WE HAVE MADE GOOD PROGRESS DURInG THE PERIOD REDUCInG THE OVERALL GROUP VACAnCy FROM A PEAK OF 14.1 PER CEnT AT THE EnD OF THE FIRST qUARTER TO 12.0 PER CEnT.
Ian Coull, Chief Executive Overview Towards the end of the year we completed a review of our During 2010, we successfully built on the acquisition of the Continental European portfolio.
We have now put in place Brixton portfolio in August 2009, making substantial inroads a plan to refine the Continental European business to focus into our vacancy with our Group rate falling to 12.0 per cent on our key geographies of Germany, France, Poland and from 13.5 per cent at the end of 2009.
We have made good Benelux to fully leverage our expertise in serving key cities progress with the former Brixton portfolio where the vacancy and transportation hubs with flexible business space.
We level is now 18.6 per cent and we are well on our way to have also completed a number of disposals of assets in 2010 reducing this to our stated target of 15.0 per cent by the where these did not fit well within the portfolio including the end of 2012.
Our overall UK vacancy has fallen from sale of the Westcore portfolio and Treforest Industrial Estate 14.8 per cent at the beginning of the year to 13.3 per cent.
towards the end of the year.
In Continental Europe, a strong lettings performance has Finally, we have made good progress with our third priority seen our vacancy reduce from a high of 12.8 per cent at to prudently manage our financial position.
Improvements 31 March 2010 to 8.9 per cent by year end.
to asset valuations and disposals in the year have enabled Lettings momentum grew throughout the year and we us to reduce gearing levels to 80 per cent and our loan delivered a strong performance with 339 new leases signed.
to value ratio is now 46 per cent.
We have significantly The challenging economic conditions, particularly in the extended our maturity profile and have no material near first half of the year, were reflected in the relatively high term refinancing requirements.
POrTfOliO value inCreaSeD by 1.9 Per CenT Alongside our key priority of improving occupancy, we Our portfolio of completed properties recorded a valuation have continued to exploit opportunities to profitably grow gain of 1.9 per cent in the year versus declines in both and improve our portfolio.
In June 2010, we significantly 2009 and 2008. enhanced our presence in the Heathrow market when we completed a two phase transaction.
This resulted in SEGRO Completed properties in the UK recorded a valuation gain acquiring 50 per cent of the Airport Property Partnership of 4.4 per cent for the period, ahead of the 3.5 per cent APP, a joint venture with Aviva Investors, and the recorded by the quarterly IPD Industrial Index for the twelve enlargement of the APP portfolio through the injection months.
The strength of the investment market and our of 237.1 million of SEGROs existing assets at Heathrow.
lettings performance flowed through into a sharpening The Heathrow market provides an exciting opportunity of yields, which offset the valuers more conservative for the Group and we see real potential to add value assumptions for rental values, particularly on our higher here through active management of our portfolio.
London, which represents 43 per cent of our UK portfolio, was again the best performing region Prelet developments provide us with an attractive opportunity with good gains in areas such as Park Royal where there to generate good returns from our well located land bank.
is limited investment availability and strong institutional During 2010, interest in prelet developments has increased demand for product, combined with rental growth.
as customers look to take advantage of lower costs to develop a building which matches their specifications in the right The Continental European portfolio of completed properties location.
We finished the year with a strong pipeline of projects.
recorded a valuation decrease of 3.9 per cent reflecting a Eight projects are now on site, a further four signed and seven reduction in rental assumptions on certain assets and a more are approved internally and in active negotiations.
number of one off factors.
The German portfolio recorded a valuation decline of 9.7 per cent, due principally to three www.
com 11 issues: the return of properties following the Karstadtquelle insolvency: unexpected refurbishment costs on one estate highlighted by the heavy snowfall: and revised assumptions on our estate in Frankfurt in part to reflect the reduction by a year in the remaining term of the lease.
Our portfolio in Benelux reported a valuation decrease of 3.1 per cent while the French portfolio remained stable.
Reflecting the continued reduction in vacancy, good rental levels and increasing investor demand, our Polish portfolio recorded a valuation gain of 6.8 per cent.
The remaining 9 per cent of our Continental European portfolio recorded a valuation decline of 11.5 per cent principally as a result of the decline in the value of the Italian portfolio following the exercise of a 2012 break option by a customer occupying 48,100 sq m at Energy Park, Vimercate.
We are currently working with this customer on their future plans.
Energy Park is a well located, high quality estate and we have seen good demand during the year with 4,500 sq m of new lets signed and our office development completed at the site in 2009 is now fully occupied.
imPrOving OCCuPanCy Our primary focus in 2010 was on reducing vacancy and we have made good progress during the period, reducing the overall Group vacancy from a peak of 14.1 per cent at the end of the first quarter to 12.0 per cent.
This figure has benefited from 1.5 per cent due to shortterm lets 2009: 1.7 per cent.
Improving our occupancy levels is both a function of new lettings but equally important is the management of our existing customers to minimise the quantum of takebacks on lease breaks and expiries.
Our lettings performance has been strong during the CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy year with 37.7 million of new annualised rental income generated across the business, excluding the value of managing Our TaKebaCKS agreements for prelet developments which will be delivered The German retailer, Karstadtquelle occupied seven of our buildings in Germany in future years.
Our performance in letting up our existing generating 4.6 million of annualised rental income.
In 2009 it became clear that space excluding lettings of newly developed space was Karstadtquelle was in financial difficulties and in the first quarter of 2010, the properties particularly pleasing, up 100 per cent on 2009. were returned to us.
Our German team was ready for this return with specific plans in place.
This allowed us to take immediate action.
We refurbished and subdivided some We lost 29.3 million of annualised rental income as a of the properties to make them more attractive to their local markets and worked with result of takebacks in the year.
This relatively high level of a subtenant in one property to transfer the lease to them.
Our swift actions meant we takebacks reflects the difficult economic conditions during had relet or sold 52 per cent of the space returned by rental value by the end 2010, but was in line with our expectations at the start of the of the year.
As a Company we are committed to customer service and aim to stay close to our customers to anticipate and address their space needs as they change and evolve.
This focus helped us to deliver a retention rate of 63 per cent for the Group.
UK In the UK, we started the year with a vacancy rate of 14.8 per cent, reflecting the acquisition of the high vacancy Brixton portfolio.
By the end of the year we had reduced this to 13.3 per cent.
We generated strong lettings in the former Brixton portfolio and the former Brixton vacancy has been reduced by 3.5 per cent in the twelve months to 18.6 per cent.
Overview 12 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 DireCTOrS rePOrT: OVERVIEW Chief exeCuTiveS review COnTInUED In total, we signed 245 new lettings in the UK representing AS 2010 HAS PROGRESSED WE HAVE SEEn 26.3 million of annualised rental income, a significant An InCREASE In THE LEVEL OF InTEREST increase on the 16.2 million generated in 2009.
In PRELET DEVELOPMEnTS AnD WE ARE Demand has been particularly strong in West London where CAPITALISInG On THIS GROWInG DEMAnD.
our estates at and around Park Royal have performed well.
Ian Coull, Chief Executive In total, we signed 24 new leases in Park Royal, representing a total of 60,100 sq m including the letting of the Verdus building in Greenford on a long lease in October.
At Heathrow, we have seen an encouraging pick up in activity as the year has progressed and cargo volumes have risen.
This is beginning to flow through into our lettings numbers with a total of 27 new leases signed at Heathrow in the year included leases signed in the APP portfolio since June and an increased level of enquiries particularly in the fourth quarter.
The Heathrow market presents exciting opportunities for the Group as we look into 2011.
Our industrial portfolio in the Thames Valley performed well, with a total of 60 new leases signed for a total of 54,400 sq m. The suburban office portion of our Thames Valley portfolio has been more subdued and, although we CREATInG VALUE THROUGH OPERATIOnAL DELIVERy a flexible anD PragmaTiC aPPrOaCh TO leTTing uP SPaCe The 22,700 sq m Verdus Building in Greenford, West London is one of the largest buildings within our UK portfolio and was acquired as part of the Brixton acquisition in 2009.
At the time of the acquisition the building was empty.
Illustrating our flexible approach we initially secured a shortterm six month let to Think Thark Productions Limited allowing them to transform the interior of the building for the filming of a major new movie which is currently due for release in 2012.
This shortterm arrangement gave us time to market the building.
Think Thark vacated the building in May and, in October, we successfully let the building on a long lease to a major supermarket chain.
They will occupy the building in March this year once their fit out is completed and will use Verdus as a distribution hub for their stores in the London area.
com 13 signed a total of 29 leases for an aggregate of 22,700 sq m, growth in areas such as Park Royal and more difficult including the completion of a 12,600 sq m prelet development conditions in markets outside the South East, particularly for Fluor at Iq Farnborough in the first half of the year, vacancy those with an excess supply of second hand space.
Rental in this portfolio remains higher than we would like.
incentives for the year were an average of 11.2 per cent of the committed rents 2009: 11.3 per cent.
In the less than 20 per cent of our UK portfolio that is located outside the South East, occupier markets were more difficult Our UK retention rate increased to 55 per cent but we continued to make progress with 83 new lettings 2009: 52 per cent.
Customers are continuing to focus on signed.
At our estates in Manchester, we let 63,800 sq m space consolidation and in total, we lost 20.2 million of with good progress made on the letting up of the former annualised rental income as a result of space returned in Brixton properties.
2010 in the UK, in line with the 20.4 million lost in 2009.
Many of our larger takebacks related to development Although we continue to take a flexible and pragmatic opportunities and a number of these customers were approach to lettings, we are pleased that, in general, the relocated into other SEGRO buildings, including the strong lettings performance we have achieved has not been premises in Camberley previously occupied by Fluor.
In at the expense of overall rental levels or by giving away 2011 we have a total of 27.9 million of rental income in unusually large rental incentives.
In fact, over the year we the UK subject to a potential break or expiry and managing saw modest growth in transactional rental levels in the our customer relationships to minimise the amount of this UK.
Overall headline rental levels on the new lettings space which is returned remains a key focus for the business.
and lease renewals completed in 2010 were an average of 0.7 per cent above December 2009 ERVs.
These figures Continental Europe mask considerable regional differences with strong rental The vacancy in our Continental European business was impacted by the expected return of the Karstadtquelle space in Germany in the first quarter, which pushed the vacancy rate up to 12.8 per cent at 31 March 2010.
Our local team has done a great job in managing this with 52 per cent, by rental value, relet or sold by the year end.
This, combined with excellent lettings figures across the rest of the portfolio, enabled us to reduce our Continental European vacancy rate to 8.9 per cent by the end of the year.
In total, we generated 11.4 million of new annualised rental income in Continental Europe with 94 new lettings signed representing 261,900 sq m. Demand in Germany recovered through the year reflecting the strengthening of the local economy.
In total we completed 42 lettings in Germany representing 95,600 sq m. Leasing performance in France was steady through the year with particular strength around Paris and in total we signed 10 new leases for 63,200 sq m. We also made progress in Benelux with 36,600 sq m let under 17 new leases including continued success with lettings at Pegasus Park in Belgium.
Our Polish business had a good year, reflecting both the strength of that economy and the quality and location of our assets.
We let a total of 59,100 sq m in Poland in 2010 and at the year end our vacancy rate was only 2.6 per cent.
Overall headline rental levels on the new lettings and lease renewals completed in Continental Europe were an average of 2.2 per cent below December 2009 ERVs.
Rental incentives averaged 6.8 per cent for the year 2009: 9.0 per cent.
Our Continental European retention rate was strong at 75 per cent.
Space returned in the year represented 9.1 million of annualised rental income 4.5 million excluding the space returned as a result of the Karstadtquelle insolvency 2009: 4.5 million.
In 2011, 11.0 million of rental income is subject to potential break or expiry in Continental Europe.
Overview 14 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 DireCTOrS rePOrT: OVERVIEW Chief exeCuTiveS review COnTInUED CaPiTaliSing On OPPOrTuniTieS TO PrOfiTably We are currently on site with four prelet projects in the grOw anD imPrOve The POrTfOliO UK, three in London at Southall, Enfield and Heathrow and The second priority we set at the outset of the year was one on the Slough Trading Estate.
The Southall development to exploit opportunities to profitably grow and improve the is currently expected to complete in the second quarter of portfolio.
We have reviewed the assets in our portfolio during 2011, the Enfield and Slough Trading Estate developments the year both in the UK and Continental Europe.
This has in the third quarter of 2011 and the Heathrow project by confirmed our objective of clustering our assets into core the end of the year.
markets which, we believe, will assist us in delivering attractive In Continental Europe, we have four further projects under returns.
In the UK, we completed the APP transaction in construction at Ostrava in Czech Republic, Gliwice in Poland, June which significantly enhanced our presence at Heathrow, Gonesse to the north of Paris France and Hamburg in which is a core cluster for the Group and in Continental Germany.
Completion is expected on the Ostrava project Europe, we have put in place a plan to refocus on certain core during the first quarter of 2011.
Gliwice is expected to geographies.
Generating income and returns from our land complete in the second quarter of 2011.
The Hamburg bank is a priority and we have capitalised on the growth in and Gonesse projects are expected to complete in the demand for prelet developments during the year, creating third quarter of the year.
a strong pipeline of projects particularly in our core markets.
We also completed a number of disposals of poorer quality We finished the year with a robust pipeline of prelet assets where they did not fit well within the portfolio.
developments with a further four projects signed in the UK.
In aggregate our signed and under construction projects excluding those currently in negotiations represent around heaThrOw marKeT PreSenTS SignifiCanT 68 million of capital expenditure and will generate 9 million OPPOrTuniTy We completed the acquisition of a 50 per cent interest in of annualised rental income.
A further seven projects are APP at the end of the first half for 111.5 million cash.
The approved internally and under active negotiation two in the APP portfolio consisted of 17 properties primarily around UK and five in Continental Europe but not yet signed.
Heathrow and three indirect investments in aggregate valued We made a decision in the middle of the year to restart a at 446.6 million based on the purchase price at 100 per limited programme of speculative development in specific cent.
We then sold 237.1 million of our existing assets at markets in Continental Europe where we have excellent Heathrow into the joint venture.
APP funded the acquisition development sites and there is a shortage of good quality through drawing on committed debt facilities together with light industrial space plus strong market demand for the 70.3 million of new equity injected from each partner.
The sites we have identified are in Lodz Poland, aggregate, taking account of the sale of our assets and the Dusseldorf and Berlin Germany and Paris France.
In the purchase of our interest in APP, these transactions generated fourth quarter we commenced construction at Lodz of net cash proceeds of 55.3 million for the Group before a small speculative development of light industrial units.
This development is expected to be completed during the In total, we now have over 1.0 billion of assets under first quarter of 2011.
We currently expect to commence management clustered around Heathrow including the speculative development of small light industrial schemes APP assets within the airport perimeter which complement at the other three sites in 2011. our existing portfolio and allow us to manage customer requirements both air and land side.
Since June, we have Continue to recycle assets with disposals taken over the asset management of the APP portfolio and of 479.4 million begun to look at ways in which we can deliver additional We completed a total of 479.4 million of disposals during value through economies of scale, development opportunities the year including the 237.1 million injection of assets into and the potential regearing of existing leases.
In aggregate, these disposals were completed in line with book values and included the following sales: the The prospects for the Heathrow market are positive.
Westcore portfolio of estates around Heathrow to Hermes Supply is limited in key locations both airside and close to the Real Estate for 79.3 million, the Treforest Industrial Estate airport perimeter and access points.
Alongside this, although demand has been impacted by the economic downturn it to Hansteen Property Unit Trust for 27.7 million, a building is now beginning to improve as air cargo volumes recover to Fluor of as part of their new premises at Iq Farnborough to above the levels seen before the recession.
In 2011, we for 21.0 million, 13 acres of land at Farnborough to TAG will continue to exploit the significant opportunities we see for 14.8 million and The Hub, Heywood Distribution Park, in this core market.
to Fowler Welch Coolchain for 13.6 million.
Growing pre-let development pipeline with Refocusing our Continental European portfolio 12 projects signed During the year, we conducted a review of our Continental Our development activity has been lower in 2010, European portfolio under Andy Gullifords leadership.
We have reflecting the uncertain economic conditions, particularly at now put in place a plan to refocus the Continental European the beginning of the year.
As 2010 has progressed we have business into a smaller number of key geographies to leverage seen an increase in the level of interest in prelet developments our expertise in serving key cities and transportation hubs with and we are capitalising on this growing demand.
com 15 Going forward we will be focused on our key geographies: OUR BALAnCE SHEET REMAInS STROnG Germany: France: Poland and Benelux.
In each of these AnD WE HAVE STREnGTHEnED OUR geographies we plan to realign our portfolio to the key MATURITy PROFILE WITH THE COMPLETIOn cities which we believe provide more attractive growth opportunities and have proved to be more resilient to the OF 485.9 MILLIOn OF nEW AnD ExTEnDED economic downturn.
In Italy and the Czech Republic we BAnK FACILITIES DURInG THE yEAR.
have good quality assets where we see opportunities to add Ian Coull, Chief Executive significant further value.
We will develop these assets but do not currently expect to add to our holdings in these countries.
We have made a decision to exit Spain and Hungary given our view of the likely outlook for the industrial property sector in these countries.
We have closed our local offices and, in December, we completed the sale of the majority of our Spanish assets for 15.4 million.
well located, land bank both in the UK and Continental PruDenTly managing Our finanCial POSiTiOn Europe gives us an opportunity to generate further value Our third priority was to prudently manage our financial as we continue to capitalise on the growing demand for position.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we have prelet developments.
strengthened our maturity profile with the completion of 485.9 million of new and extended bank facilities during The economic environment has been challenging in 2010 the year.
This has moved the weighted average maturity and although sentiment has improved during the year we of the Groups debt from 9.5 years to 9.8 years and we believe that 2011 will also bring challenges.
The pattern of have no material nearterm refinancing requirements.
lettings and takebacks in 2011 is unlikely to be uniform, quarter on quarter, and we may see movements in the net borrowings at the end of the year were 2,203.2 million, vacancy rate in any given quarter which reflect this.
We down from 2,420.1 million at 31 December 2009 and we are confident however, given our high quality portfolio and have reduced our gearing from 91 to 80 per cent.
Our loan strong team, that SEGRO is well positioned to continue to to value ratio is now 46 per cent down from 47 per cent at make progress and to benefit from the emerging recovery.
We could absorb a decline in property valuations of more than 28 per cent before the tightest of Finally, this will be my last report to shareholders as Chief our financial gearing covenants would be breached and with Executive of SEGRO.
I have enjoyed my time with the just 19 per cent of our net borrowings at floating rates, we Group over the last eight years.
We have taken SEGRO only have limited exposure to interest rate increases.
on a journey over this time to transform the Company from an asset collector with a diverse unfocused portfolio to a Further details of the financial position, including sensitivities focused panEuropean industrial REIT.
David Sleath currently to interest rate and currency fluctuations, are provided in the Finance Director will take over as Chief Executive following financial review.
the AGM in April 2011 and I am sure he will provide excellent leadership to the business.
I could not have OuTlOOK completed this transformation without the help and support Our strategy remains to maximise total shareholder returns of the management team and employees of SEGRO.
I would by applying our business model to Buy Smart, Add Value like to take this opportunity to thank them all for their and Sell Well in our core geographies supported by an contribution over the last eight years and to wish both efficient capital structure.
them and SEGRO well for the future.
At the beginning of 2010, we set ourselves three priorities: Ian Coull, to improve occupancy, capitalise on opportunities to improve Chief Executive the portfolio and to prudently manage our financial position.
We have made good progress on all three of these in the 23 February 2011 twelve months.
Looking ahead, we continue to focus on these three priorities as we move into 2011.
We have transformed SEGRO over the last few years to concentrate our portfolio and our emphasis now is on operational delivery.
Reducing our vacant property is the largest nearterm opportunity we have to generate additional value for our shareholders and is the main priority of the management team.
We estimate that, at todays rental levels, a reduction of one per cent in our current vacancy rate would add around 6 million of additional annualised earnings.
In addition our significant, Overview
