12 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategy: Chief Executive Ofcers review CONTINUING TO GROW AND LEAD THE WAY IN OUR MARKETS I am pleased to report that CPP has delivered We are a fast growing strong growth, continuing the trend established over the past few years.
This year, Group revenue is international business up 12% and underlying operating profit is up 17%.
These results are testament to the quality of our people, our products and services, and our with a proven track long-standing relationships with Business Partners and customers.
We are especially proud of our record.
achievements given the backdrop of global economic and financial uncertainty.
Eric Rhys Woolley It is also gratifying that we are able to report this Chief Executive officer performance in our first results following our listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2010. Business diversication has helped CPP to achieve this growth, and I am pleased to report that today the Group continues to pursue its ambition of operating across multiple market sectors, offering multiple products and services in an increasing number of geographical markets.
Although our geographical markets are at different stages of maturity, the basic premise remains that consumers, irrespective of where they live, are increasingly reliant on their payment cards and mobile devices, and continue to travel for both business and leisure.
CPPs Life Assistance products and services are well positioned to help consumers safeguard what is valuable to them and to cope with the anxieties and complexities of modern life.
At the same time, our products and services help Business Partners generate incremental revenue and reduce cost.
The opportunities from CPPs ongoing diversication are driving our business forward and creating the momentum to establish CPP as a leader in the evolving Life Assistance market.
Continuing to perform well CPP has grown Group revenue by 12% and underlying Group operating profit by 17% yearon-year.
Underlying operating profit margin has increased by 0.8% to 15.0%.
This increase in underlying Group operating profit and a reduction in legacy scheme share-based payments have generated reported operating profit growth of 44% year-on-year.
We have increased new assistance income by 10% year-on-year to 88.0 million through product, channel and market diversication, growth in Packaged Accounts and the roll out of higher-priced product variants.
Live policies have increased 12% to 11.2 million.
pdf 14 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Chief Executive Ofcers review Group strategy & KPIs Strategy in action We actively manage our renewal rates as they In Southern Europe, Angel fide Leon was appointed new Packaged Accounts offering with RBS and provide evidence that our products are valued by Managing Director in April.
Angel brings a wealth higher sales with T-Mobile, particularly smartphone our customers who have chosen to retain them of experience of the Southern European markets, insurance.
Renewing our contract with T-Mobile even when disposable income is under increased including from his previous roles at Banesto.
until 31 December 2011 was important, and we pressure.
The Group renewal rate is a blended rate continue to have high level discussions with the In our Asia Pacic region, Richard Brady has been including all of our geographical markets.
It reects merged T-Mobile business about potential future appointed Managing Director from March 2011. stability in the UK renewal rate offset by reduced business opportunities.
Richard has extensive experience of the insurance rates in Southern Europe, which we attribute to market through previous roles at Zurich Insurance I am encouraged by the progress we have made in local economic conditions and the expected mix and of the Asia Pacic region with AIG.
In addition, the successful effect of the growing renewal base in our new integration of Leapfrogs product portfolio into geographical markets and the US.
Global market growth our newly established CPP Travel Services and Growth in our Northern European region has been Promotional Marketing division has aided our Management changes excellent.
In the UK our Packaged Accounts entry into the travel sector.
This has helped us Having led the sustained growth of Northern business has continued to deliver good revenue to establish new Business Partner relationships Europe, Stephen Kennedy was appointed to the growth as have our Card Activation programmes.
outside the financial services sector.
new role of Chief Operating officer in June.
He will We have continued the successful roll-out of focus on delivering growth and efficiency across Continuing the theme of diversication, we are improved product variants of our Card Protection the Group, and our regional business units will gaining some momentum with Home 3, our joint and Identity Protection products, with associated report into him.
Mike Kneafsey, previously Group venture with Spanish insurer, Mapfre Asistencia.
Sales and Service Director, has been appointed The business has recently contracted to support Managing Director of UK and Ireland, having joined Our mobile phone insurance business has the AA with part of the claims fullment of their CPP in 2008 from Barclays.
performed well with growth coming from our home emergency product and has established a Key market data As the demand for financial cards grows...
The bankable population across all our four regions showed growth between 2005 and 2010.
This had a positive affect on the number of financial cards in circulation with all regions registering double-digit growth.
This trend is forecasted to continue across 2011 2015.
Financial Cards Growth by Region % CIFAS Statistical Update 35 The following table shows the number of victims of impersonation and cases of account 33% takeover recorded by CIFAS Members, 28 together with the percentage change from 27% the same period of the previous year.
21 20% Year Victims of Account impersonation takeovers 14 2008 62,658 19,275 -3.70% 207% 11% 2009 85,402 22,434 7 35.65% 16.29% 2010 70,233 16,042 0 to 30 September 18.38% -1.97% Northern Europe Southern Europe North America Asia Pacic Source: CIFAS National Fraud Database Q Growth 2011 2015 Forecast Source: Euromonitor International, 2011 48051 Blacksun.
pdf 15 01 04 2011 14:17 14 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategy: Chief Executive Ofcers review continued The demand for Life Assistance products and services is evolving and we are at the forefront of this market.
number of relationships with new Business In Mexico, as in other new developing markets Having taken the decision to launch in these two Partners, including Homebase Retail Stores, BGL where we have recently launched, performance major developing economies, I am encouraged by Budget Group Limited and Insure4Retirement.
Card Protection sales are our performance and progress in introducing our growing well and new campaigns have been blend of assistance and insurance services.
In Turkey, where we launched our business in 2007, implemented to support our performance.
we are growing our policy numbers and thereby In other markets across Asia Pacic, our building a good renewal income base for the The North America region continues to deliver performance has been affected by external factors future.
As a result, I am pleased to report that year-on-year revenue growth.
I am encouraged by such as the introduction of a new credit card tax in this geographical market has achieved full-year new campaigns with Sovereign Bank and Wells Malaysia.
This has reduced the number of credit profits for the first time since launch.
Fargo Wachovia, which are generating significant cards in circulation, as well as the number of new new policy sales.
cards being issued, which has a direct impact on Elsewhere, revenue in our Southern Europe the opportunities we have to market our products.
markets is stable in challenging economic In our Asia Pacic region, I am encouraged by In Hong Kong, local concerns over the transfer conditions especially in Spain our largest market.
our performance in India and our entry into the of personal data to third parties for marketing Undeterred, we have worked hard to expand our Chinese market.
In India we have continued to purposes caused a temporary suspension of our Card Activation campaigns with a number of new build Business Partner relationships, and now telemarketing channels.
Business Partners in Spain and Italy.
Most notably, work with nine organisations, including Barclays, in Spain, we have a new relationship with Banco Deutsche Bank and Life Insurance Corporation Organisational culture Sabadell, the countrys fourth largest banking group of India.
Furthermore, renewal income is now As a business, we continue to work on and the largest bank in Catalonia.
contributing to our growth in this strategically strengthening the link between performance and important and fast-growing economy.
In China, We recognise that product innovation and people management.
We achieve this through our we have made progress by signing our second development is central to our success in this region Group Engagement Survey, which we conducted retail agreement with Guangdong Development and I am pleased to report that we have introduced twice in 2010.
Data from this survey is used to Bank GDB, building on a wholesale agreement Identity Protection in Spain with Carrefour, and measure the strength of the relationship between already in place with this Business Partner.
have more country launches in the pipeline planned individuals performance and their engagement Our first retail contract was signed earlier in the for 2011.
This product is already available in the US with the company.
The results are used to identify year with Shenzhen Development Bank SDB.
and Singapore, as well as in the UK.
areas for improvement that will help us deliver... the incidence of theft and fraud increases Q Total fraud losses on UK cards totalled Q 50% of regular internet users 41.4 million are company she had not used before.
She immediately 365.4 million in 2010 source: UK Cards called the debt collectors assuming it was a simple banking online source: UK Payments Association Association mistake that could be rectied.
But when she spoke to the company they said as far as they were Q Figures from the National Fraud Authority show concerned she had spent the money and was that UK identity fraud costs more than 2.7 billion 1.8m liable for the debt.
Around the same time she and affects over 1.8 million people each year.
On People affected by identity fraud every year also received a letter from another catalogue average fraudsters gain over 1,000 from every costing the UK 2.7 billion company saying she owed them 300 for identity stolen source: National Fraud Authority catalogue purchases.
Q Criminals are using more sophisticated methods Mrs Goodman was left feeling worried, guilty and to target online banking customers through angry because she felt she was being punished for malware, which targets vulnerabilities in 133% something which she had not done.
customers PCs, rather than the banks own Increase in the number of financial cards systems which are more difficult to attack in circulation in Asia Pacic between 2005 She continued to speak with the companies involved source: UK Cards Association and 2010 and the debt collection agency but was not able to resolve the problem.
She also spoke to the police Q There were more than 61,000 phishing who told her it was not a police matter.
She then incidents recorded during 2010 a 21% went to Citizens Advice who said there was nothing increase on the amount seen in 2009 they could do.
source: UK Cards Association Mrs Goodman, a 57-year old from Bridgend first She then called one of CPP's identity theft Q The Dedicated Cheque and plastic Crime Unit realised something was wrong when her caseworkers and explained her full story who then DCPCU the unique bank-sponsored police applications for store and credit cards were refused.
dealt directly with all the companies involved to squad has prevented an estimated 340 million Soon after she had a message from a debt collection of card and cheque fraud losses over the last clear her name, restore her identity and repair her eight years source: The UK Cards Association agency saying that she owed 500 to a catalogue credit status.
pdf 16 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Chief Executive Ofcers review Group strategy & KPIs Strategy in action sustainable business results.
In 2010, the Group Our software development teams continue to Accounts business and a stable renewal rate.
Engagement survey recorded that 79% of focus on enhancing our core capabilities including Progress in our new developing markets, which employees were engaged and satisfied.
packaged services, e-commerce, global web offer significant longer term potential, has been services and contact centre sales platforms, as encouraging and I was particularly pleased to see In 2010, we continued to improve our people and well as providing solutions to support our launch Turkey achieve maiden full year profits.
performance data, allowing us to better support in China and the international roll-out of Identity the Groups business strategy and organisational CPP is a fast growing international business with a Protection.
The Groups business intelligence effectiveness.
These improvements included a new proven track record, strong cash generation and a capability continues to support the growth of operational performance management process, minimal level of net debt.
Looking forward, whilst new business opportunities and the increasing developing greater depth in our HR systems data economic conditions remain challenging, we are efficiency of our sales channels.
and enhanced business priorities management.
excited by the growth opportunities we have around the world and the medium term new Future outlook Technology business pipeline is encouraging as existing Thanks to the dedicated efforts of our employees A major focus throughout 2010 was the markets continue to develop and new markets across the Group, CPP has delivered another year achievement of Payment Card Industry Data open up.
This strong performance with Security Standard PCI DSS compliance in the organic constant currency revenue growth of 10% majority of our countries.
We introduced a network has been achieved against a challenging economic of encrypted storage areas across the Group Eric Rhys Woolley backdrop, conrming that our Life Assistance and call-recording platforms in the UK to meet PCI Chief Executive officer products are highly valued by our customers who DSS requirements.
We also upgraded telephony are seeking to safeguard themselves against the platforms in the US and Spain with the UK anxieties and complexities of modern life.
Our scheduled for completion in 2011.
A major ongoing focus on operational efficiency has enabled investment in enterprise storage and server us to both invest in future growth and deliver platforms will ensure future scalability and another increase in the operating profit margin.
resilience as the business grows, supported by a virtualisation project that will radically reduce Our UK business continues to perform well driven the number of physical servers in use.
by good revenue growth from our Packaged I am responsible for operational performance across the Group on a day-to-day basis.
The regional Managing Directors report to me and I am driving revenue and operating profit in line with Group strategy.
Stephen Kennedy Appointed Chief Operating officer in June 2010 to focus on delivering growth and efficiency across the Group.
