Directors report | Business review Chief Executives review Sales were very strong in 2010 in both reporting sectors.
Industrial Specialities had the highest growth, particularly in the first half, with weak comparatives in 2009 due to the recession.
Performance and Prospects Industrial Specialities Mike Humphrey Consumer Care There are five main business areas in Group Chief Executive our Industrial Specialities segment: There are three main business areas Polymer Additives, Lubricant Additives, within the Consumer Care segment: Home Care, Coatings & Polymers and Personal Care, Health Care and Crop Care.
2010 sales were up In 2010, sales increased by 14.0% to 29.7% to 485.5m 2009: 374.4m and 516.4m 2009: 453.1m and operating continuing operating profit increased by profits increased 31.8% to 136.5m 246.9% to 62.1m 2009: 17.9m for 2009: 103.6m with the underlying the same reasons as those behind the margin from the extra sales boosted by Consumer Care profit uplift.
In addition, the benefits of last years restructuring the comparatives in the first half of 2009 and tight cost control.
Return on sales were very weak as a result of the global increased to 26.4% 2009: 22.9%.
Return on sales increased to Personal Care is the largest of the 12.8% 2009: 4.8%, beating our previous business areas and sales grew faster than target of 10% and the 2010 result the Consumer Care average, with the showed good progress towards our new strongest growth in prestige and high end 15% target.
salon products to our largest customers.
In Polymer Additives, good sales growth Sales were particularly strong in North was achieved throughout the year despite America and Europe.
Our innovation and some capacity issues, with sales doubling new product pipeline remains very strong in China versus 2009. and this is fuelling demand.
Lubricant Additives were also capacity Health Care saw double digit growth constrained in the early part of the year, despite capacity constraints in the first following the Wilton closure, with strong half of the year.
New high purity Omega demand for green high performance 3 capacity will be operational in the first products.
In Home Care, sales were again strong.
After a quiet first quarter, Crop Care The quality of the portfolio that remains achieved very strong sales with North after the sale of Emmerich is high and we American and European markets again have been particularly successful in selling seeing the highest growth.
new biodegradable products in North America.
Coatings & Polymers saw strong growth with sales to the electronics industry in Strong sales Asia performing well.
and profit Geo Technologies saw a windfall in growth in both North America as a result of the Gulf of sectors Mexico cleanup.
This was, however, again countered by capacity issues early in the year following the closure of Wilton.
5 We can only achieve our goals through excellent and constant communication, creativity and setting clear objectives at every level MixXIN ME, Versflex and NatraGems are Crodas Blue Technology range of ingredients for facial skin, body and hair care formulations.
These ingredients allow our customers to process their formulations at ambient temperatures and reduce the energy consumption of the process by up to 80%.
6 We will remain a fun, lively, stimulating and exciting place to work, where all employees have the courage to question, and all functions and individuals are valued A new office building for Crodas European commercial functions at Cowick Hall, UK, was completed in 2010.
Considerations were made to reduce the environmental impact of the building at all stages.
The offices are warmed by geothermal heat from water around 100 metres below the ground.
7 Directors report | Business review Chief Executives review Strategy This section of the Chief Executives Crodas culture of pragmatic innovation review is largely unchanged from last in every aspect of the business, not just year.
This is indicative of the robustness of in product development, means we are Crodas core principles and of the Groups well-placed to be a truly leading speciality success in implementing its strategy.
We have offices and technical facilities in 36 countries and The core principles of Crodas strategy operate 17 state of the art factories across have remained valid since 1999.
We test Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Through them every year and every year we have this network we are able to match and, found them to be a solid framework for in many instances, exceed our customers successful growth.
Our aim is to be a rapid globalisation.
leading, independent, global speciality chemical company.
We will only invest in Our operating companies are set sales, businesses, current and future, that can: profit growth and operating margin targets that form the basis of our budgets n be truly global and strategic plans.
We report annually n create profitable innovation on our progress against five key financial n operate in end markets that have long key performance indicators and these are term growth well above global GDP assessed on page 10: n realistically sustain high operating n Return on sales margins.
n EPS growth Our focus on markets and market drivers n Post tax ROIC means we are well aligned with the n Net debt to EBITDA mega trends which will shape the future n EBITDA interest cover.
Trends like an ageing population, health and Summary well-being, sustainability and the correct Croda is a truly global company with only use of renewable resources present 5% of its sales in the UK.
Our customer great challenges and even greater focused business model has been the opportunities.
basis of our success for many years.
We will continue to increase this focus to We will create our future success.
continually In a number of areas we were short of In 2010, four of our improve capacity in 2010 following the Wilton manufacturing sites have closure.
We have addressed this issue been accredited to the during 2010 and will install further European Federation for Cosmetic capacity in the current year.
The standard is designed to ensure Our new product pipeline is strong and the consistency, quality and purity global demand in our chosen markets of cosmetic ingredients above the remains robust.
A further five of our sites are working 2011 has started well and we expect to towards accreditation in 2011. report further progress in the current year.
Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive 8
