14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives review WE CREATE WE CONSTANTLY LOOK FOR NEW AND BETTER WAYS OF DOING THINGS Fit for the future 31 March 2009 when the debt was We have used a number of different This has been an exciting year for Dairy 415.8 million.
methods of marketing our brands from Crest.
We have consistently delivered traditional television advertisements on our strategy of brand investment, Increased profits and lower borrowings to internet campaigns.
The sustained cost reduction and cash generation, and Operating profits have increased and at increase in marketing investment has led have strengthened the business for the the same time we have invested more in to higher consumer awareness for all our future.
During the year, we have increased innovation and marketing our key brands.
brands and has helped us get our key operating profits and significantly cut This has been possible because our focus messages across.
For example more our borrowings, and at the same time on cost control has delivered efficiency consumers now think that Cathedral City continued to develop our key brands improvements and strong cash generation.
is one of the best cheeses money can and other added value sales.
We have This in turn has led to lower borrowings buy up 15% over the past two years, that demonstrated our commitment to our and reduced interest costs.
Country Life is a superior tasting product Dairies business by announcing a major Our Dairies division has performed up 22% and British up 23%, that capital investment programme.
In addition strongly and has benefited from lower Clover is a good balance between health we have continued to innovate with costs and higher cream returns during and taste up 100% and FRijj has cool further developments in our new doorstep the year.
This has been partly offset by packaging up 33%.
We have substantially lower profits in our Spreads and Cheese We are particularly pleased with the reduced our pension scheme exposure divisions where, in line with our strategy to ongoing success of our French business, and completed the important work we continue to grow our key brands, we have St Hubert, which has delivered ahead have been doing to set out our corporate spent more on advertising and promotions of expectations and has again made a Vision and Values.
We believe we are in a during the year.
significant contribution to the profitability of strong position to continue this progress in We are confident that this ongoing the Group.
We have improved St Huberts the future.
marketing investment leaves our brands performance under our ownership, sharing well placed for further profitable growth.
best practice with our UK businesses Financial results It is particularly pleasing to be able to and driving purchasing synergies.
It has a Strong growth in sales of key brands and report overall profit growth without cheese strong management team who are capable liquid milk to retailers, which together stock profits, which in 2008 09 contributed of generating further improvements.
increased by 52 million, were offset by around 10 million to operating profit.
The planned lower sales of dairy ingredients increase has also been achieved without a 2.
Fresh milk to major retailers we and lower sales to doorstep and middle contribution from our 49% stake in Yoplait have maintained good year on year growth ground milk customers.
The Groups Dairy Crest which was sold in March 2009. in milk sales to major retailers.
These have revenue for the year ended 31 March 2010 grown by 9% in volume and 8% in value.
Growing added value sales Alongside a steady increase in conventional Adjusted Group profit before tax We continue to grow sales in three areas milk sales to these customers, sales of was up 5% at 83.5 million 2009: 79.5 of strategic importance.
organic and flavoured milk have also grown million.
After adjusting for 4.0 million of net strongly.
During the year we have also made exceptional profit 2009: 26.4 million, 0.5 1.
Key brands our five key brands good progress in developing sales of milk million other finance expense 2009: 6.9 Cathedral City, Country Life, St Hubert in bags using our innovative patented jug, million credit and 9.2 million of acquired Omga 3, Clover and FRijj have continued JUGIT.
Sainsburys was the first retailer to intangible amortisation costs 2009: 9.6 to perform strongly against very tough launch national distribution of this product, million reported profit before tax was down prior year comparatives.
Together they which contains 75% less packaging than 25% at 77.8 million 2009: 103.2 million.
have increased volume by 13% and value a standard 2 pint plastic milk bottle and Adjusted basic earnings per share fell by by 9%.
Over recent years we have driven we expect to gain listings with other major 1% to 44.5 pence 2009: 45.0 pence.
consistent growth in these combined retailers.
We have also trialled this concept Group net debt at 31 March 2010 brands and have outperformed the successfully with our doorstep customers was 337.2 million, which was better than market.
Our sales of these brands are and expect to increase distribution of milk in expected and 78.6 million lower than at nearly 50% higher than three years ago.
bags through this channel during 2010 11.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 15 3. milk&more our doorstep delivery stretches as far back as the creation of will allow us to increase capacity, reduce internet proposition, milk&more, continues the Milk Marketing Board in 1933.
Today costs and accelerate innovation.
We to show strong momentum.
We are we buy milk directly from over 1,350 dairy expect to make this investment over the delighted that we now have over 250,000 farmers and have around 8,500 employees next three years and to achieve a minimum registered customers, which is in line with and franchised milkmen.
We operate of a four-year payback on this investment.
the challenging target we set when we factories in rural areas where they play a In addition, as we continue to improve all fully launched this service last September.
significant role in the local economy.
We aspects of our Dairies Division, we would The initial success of milk&more has aim to produce healthy and convenient look to benefit by selling more milk to our already contributed to a lower decline in products that are enjoyed by millions of key customers, who recognise that the doorstep sales.
consumers across Western Europe and cost, quality and service we provide is of they expect us to continue to innovate and the highest level.
Cost reduction develop our products and services, while at We are excited about the prospects of Cost reduction remains a key part of the same time caring for our environment.
our doorstep delivery internet proposition, our strategy.
It has allowed us to grow During the year we have completed milk&more.
Although we are breaking new underlying profits and increase investment the development of our corporate Vision ground here we have already achieved our across our business while at the same and Values which recognises the needs first stretching target of 250,000 customers.
time maintain high levels of customer of these different stakeholders in our We now want to grow the amount each service.
We continue to set ourselves business and sets out how we can do the customer buys from us and believe that we challenging targets to reduce our costs best we can for them all and as a result can do this.
However it is difficult precisely and are confident further improvements maximise returns for shareholders.
I am to predict how milk&more will change our remain possible.
From what we know today it is During 2009 10 we achieved cost have linked our Vision and Values with key possible that in the future milk&more could reductions that in total will deliver performance indicators which will allow us eliminate doorstep decline and eventually annualised savings of approximately 20 to monitor our progress.
provide growth in total doorstep sales at million.
These range from appointing a acceptable margins.
new media-buying agency to redesigning Market environment Supporting all these developments our spreads tubs.
We have also driven Retail markets in the UK and France that will provide added value sales efficiencies in our dairies and distribution remain dominated by concerns over growth is an ongoing programme of cost depots and continue to identify further consumers reaction to financial pressures reduction.
In our Household business opportunities.
caused by the global recession.
We have we have the opportunity to simplify and reacted to this by promoting our brands centralise our depot administration.
This Strengthened financial position more in order to provide value to our project is progressing well and will lead to As a result of the focus we have put on consumers.
We expect this to continue substantial savings in our cost base.
cash generation, our reported borrowings during 2010 11.
Additionally we continue to revisit are the lowest they have been since 30 Dairy markets and UK milk prices have our central overheads to reduce the September 2006. been relatively stable over the past year.
administration costs for each litre of milk In addition we continue to reduce Recently dairy commodity prices have that we process.
risk in order to stabilise and simplify the started to increase and this may put upward In 2010 11 we intend to continue to business.
pressure on milk prices in coming months.
increase profits, generate cash and further We have made significant progress There are also signs that some other reduce our borrowings.
We anticipate that in reducing the risks associated with our commodity costs are starting to increase.
our borrowings at 31 March 2011 will be defined benefit pension scheme.
This has We continue to drive efficiencies to offset meaningfully lower than at 31 March 2010, now closed to future accrual.
these and believe that our track record despite planned higher capital expenditure During 2009 10 we have processed demonstrates that we can deal with this and increased dividend payments.
significantly lower volumes of milk into challenge.
Trading at the start of the new year is commodity ingredients than we did in line with our expectations.
in 2008 09 and are confident we can Looking forward Dairy Crest has changed from a maintain this in the future.
We are also in This has been a year of progress for Dairy predominantly commodity focused, UK the process of reducing our stake in our Crest in which we have strengthened based business to an added value dairy Irish cheese business, Wexford Creamery the business for the future.
Against this food company with a significant profit Limited.
The prospective purchaser, background we expect our key brands to stream from continental Europe.
We Wexford Milk Producers Limited, will be continue to grow.
As noted above, we have have shown that we can grow added shortly seeking its members approval grown sales of these brands by nearly 50% value sales both organically and through to the transaction.
When completed, over the past three years and consumers acquisitions and we are well placed to do this transaction will largely complete our spontaneous awareness of these brands either or both.
We will maintain We are fit for an exciting future.
Finally, we have offered new longer this momentum by continuing to invest in term, fixed price contracts to some of our marketing and innovation.
Milk purchased under these The benefits from being a broadly contracts will be used to meet milk&more based dairy business have been clearly sales demand and will increase price demonstrated this year.
We have taken stability between our suppliers and us.
the opportunity created by strong cash Mark Allen Chief Executive generation to initiate a 75 million capital 17 May 2010 Vision and Values investment programme in our dairies that Although it is only fourteen years since we will support our business with our key started life as a plc, we have a history that liquid milk customers.
