daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chief exeCutives revieW martin morgan Chief executive this Chief executives review will start by Our strategy for future success lies in setting out the nature, objectives and strategy of the group.
a business review three key areas of the development and performance of each of our operating divisions will 1.
Growing our Business to follow on pages 17 to 28. a financial and treasury review is given on pages Business divisions 29 to 33 and the principal risks and uncertainties the group faces are 2.
Supporting our newspapers and set out on pages 38 and 39 of the directors report.
investing in digital consumer media dmgts philosophy 3.
Turning DMGT into a global dmgt is a multi-media and information company providing essential news, growth company entertainment and information services in both the business to business b2b and consumer sectors.
We operate in many different markets, in many countries, introduCtion each with its own competitive and this business review is addressed to the regulatory requirements.
its purpose is it has been dmgts philosophy for many to help them assess how the directors years to take advantage of its have performed in their duty to shareholding structure and to invest promote the success of the Company.
with a long-term perspective to it is framed by the principles and generate value.
our particular guidelines for operating and financial ownership structure, with control reviews published by the uK maintained by the founding family, has accounting standards board in 2006. proved itself throughout our long history it outlines the main operational and to be a successful business model in the financial factors underpinning the media and information industry.
it is this development, performance and ownership structure that affords us a position of the group as well as those longer-term perspective and that is at likely to affect performance over the the heart of our philosophy.
coming year, illustrating this with key performance indicators.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange rates.
4 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report We are committed to remaining both in regularly assessing our current the new Committee comprises the diversified across both the b2b and businesses and in the way we assess all dmgt executive and two nonconsumer media sectors in order to give future investments, resulting in a clear executives.
it acts independently on us a breadth of opportunities and to capital allocation process.
there must investment decisions and capital spread risk.
our b2b arm is made up of also be a preparedness to sell as well as allocation from the divisions, although it risk management solutions rms, dmg buy on a timely basis.
will invite attendance and contributions information dmgi, dmg events which from time to time by divisional Ceos as finally we are building on dmgts changed its name from dmg world well as from outside experts.
distinct values and management media in april and euromoney philosophy.
We remain committed to a We recognise that our future is largely institutional investor.
our consumer decentralised operating structure with digital, whether it be in the consumer or media division, a&n media comprises a small central team in order to nurture the b2b markets, and we are uniquely mail newspapers, our digital only innovation and an entrepreneurial mind placed to take key learnings and businesses formerly associated set.
We have been raising the bar on experience from one to inform the northcliffe digital, our free newspaper talent by being committed to attracting other.
accordingly, we have division, principally metro, and and retaining the best people in order encouraged the sharing of more northcliffe media.
We also own 50% to optimise our management information regarding technology of dmg radio australia, a 50:50 joint philosophy and to meet our global developments across the group, venture with illyria, an australian growth ambitions.
if anything it has particularly regarding new product company that is the private investment become even clearer over the last year development and entering new vehicle of mr lachlan murdoch, which just how critical our work on talent is, in markets.
We have retained the services was established in december 2009. order to have the entrepreneurially of a technology expert to advise us at minded people who can drive the group level.
strategy revenue line and our strategic our plan is to continue to run the the overarching strategy for the group ambitions.
Company on a conservative basis over is to remain the owner of high quality, in summary we have pursued our the next few years because tough sustainable, market-leading media strategy with vigour over the last economic conditions may prevail in the and information assets across both twelve months.
uK for some time yet and the course of the b2b and consumer sectors and to the us economy remains uncertain.
We We have established a new investment improve dmgts overall share rating.
are giving priority to investing in the and finance Committee alongside a our intention is for dmgt to become considerable organic growth potential newly formed dmgt leadership team, a truly global growth company with of our existing portfolio of businesses, which together will improve investment sustainable earnings and dividend supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions decision making and group strategy growth with an increasing exposure to offset by a few minor disposals.
We are development, at the higher operating growth economies and international taking steps to limit the growth in our tempo we have been setting and opportunities.
the three pillars of my pension scheme liabilities and to which, i firmly believe, is so crucial to our leadership continue to be growth, reduce the schemes volatility.
the leadership team adaptability and innovation.
comprises all the divisional company our strategy is underpinned by five progress in year leaders, together with the dmgt guiding tasks.
its remit is to focus on i am proud to report that we have the first is to enhance focus by developing dmgt group-wide longerdelivered on what we promised two concentrating our management and term strategy, on furthering cross group years ago.
We achieved our targeted investment on a subset of businesses co-operation when and where this 150 million in profit enhancements, where we see the closest alignment makes sense, and to guide policy on enabling us to preserve our investment between opportunities and growth, matters which are cross divisional in in innovation and organic growth.
We and which fit with our investment nature, for example group leadership re-focused the portfolio with a wide criteria.
on this task, we have made courses, communications and aspects range of disposals, closures, and considerable progress.
secondly, we of technical capability.
our results are a have been strengthening our balance replace the decision making and testament to our success in meeting sheet in order to maintain financial accountability structures in place these short-term objectives.
flexibility so that we are able to take through our decentralised operating advantage of opportunities as they structure.
the third key priority remains reducing pension liabilities.
the fourth is applying consistent investment criteria.
this requires being highly disciplined 5 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chief exeCutives revieW Continued With a more focused portfolio, impressive.
headcount is down almost two years ago, i recognised the need to improved margins and a somewhat 50% from its peak levels in 2004. focus on a narrower range of activities in better trading environment, operating northcliffes operating structure has order to concentrate human resources profit rose by 17% to 320 million and been reorganised into new publishing and financial capital where the most debt has fallen.
operating margin rose centres, focused on their core potential for long term growth and value from 13% to 16%.
We have beaten our competencies of news gathering and creation existed.
i stated that we would initial debt: ebitda target of 2.5 times local advertising sales: and centres of remain active managers of our portfolio and have virtually no bank debt.
excellence established for common of businesses and apply our investment moreover, since we made every effort business functions, including subcriteria vigorously in determining where not to lose sight of our long-term editing, advertising production, to allocate capital but at the same time strategic objectives and maintained information technology, finance, maintaining our long term perspective organic growth investment during this printing and digital publishing: and and rate of internal investment to drive difficult period, we should not need to regional contact centres, which organic growth.
increase our rate of investment in improve the overall customer the investment criteria that i identified new products and services during experience, for recruitment and private were to focus on having businesses the recovery.
advertising, as well as the home which operate in attractive growth delivered sale of our newspapers.
dmgt has always been a first mover in markets.
such businesses should have this much lower cost operating the media and information industry.
our products or services that are highly model means that northcliffe is more results demonstrate once again that innovative and highly valued, ones operationally geared today and so the success of the decision made many which customers repeat buy.
We have will see substantial benefits when the years ago by the Chairmans father to a strong bias towards market leaders.
We are diversify our portfolio and move away businesses with these characteristics will implementing plans for additional from a dependence on uK newspapers not only grow but be high margin, cash cost and efficiency gains.
today generative and produce a high return our national newspapers are there has been much talk within the on capital.
We are also focused on strengthening further their market media of potential consolidation within capturing and retaining entrepreneurial leading positions, complemented by the regional newspaper industry.
Whilst management and we give preference growth in our newer consumer digital we can see benefits, we will not put to businesses which can benefit from business and our strong portfolio of b2b further capital into the industry because dmgts long term perspective.
of the more certain potential of our other We have fully adopted these investment opportunities for investment.
We are, a&n media has made huge progress in criteria both in new investments and in however, committed to the ongoing bringing focus to its activities and in the management of currently owned transformation of northcliffe because advancing impressively in print as well businesses.
in keeping with this we believe there will always be a as in digital consumer media.
mail approach, we have re-focused the demand for local news and information.
newspapers stands apart from other portfolio with a further wide range of to this end we have launched local newspaper businesses in the uK and is disposals, closures and reorganisations.
people, a digital service aimed at now in a different league in newspaper at a&n media, we closed london lite in smaller communities than are often digital activities through mail online, the london evening newspaper market covered by local print media.
which is a core engine for growth.
in november 2009 following on from the the daily mail and the mail on sunday the recovery of the profits of our uK sale of 75% of the evening standard and improved their market shares towards national consumer media activities its subsequent move to a free revenue the end of the year to record levels, a means that the percentage of the model, and closed teletexts television testament to our strategy of investing in groups operating profits derived from operations in december 2009.
We sold editorial content and in marketing b2b fell this year, as expected, from allegran, our online dating business, and promotion.
a significant part of our dmr, our digital data and auto operations are now outside the uK with at northcliffe media, which still faces business, loot and our slovakian more than half of the groups operating difficult market conditions, our strategy newspapers.
We have re-engineered profits again derived from outside the has been to create a lower cost, high northcliffe uK, including the closure of a uK, which also has the effect of quality publishing business with further print plant at plymouth.
We reducing the groups exposure to improved levels of service for readers merged metro dublin with herald am.
and advertisers, coupled with We restructured dmg world media, investment in digital media.
this has eliminating its corporate centre and been achieved by harnessing renaming the smaller and leaner technology, leveraging the scale of the business, dmg events, and we sold 50% northcliffe portfolio and working more of dmg radio to illyria.
collaboratively with the rest of a&n media.
the results have been 6 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report We have continued to focus on business we have continued to nurture rms continues to develop products and fundamentals and organic growth and operational autonomy with strong services to fulfil demand for catastrophe on nurturing our existing businesses, incentives based on performance, models, expand along the decision whilst retaining central control over rather than on making large scale sciences value chain, and devise surplus capital and its reinvestment.
We have been willing to solutions in adjacent insurance market make a small number of highly segments, such as in life and health.
this maintaining this approach is of upmost attractive bolt-on acquisitions and year, it delivered for the first time a importance to me.
the benefits are investments with low risk and high state-of-the-art high performance numerous and enabled us to respond returns which strengthen the computing solution, rms enterprise grid rapidly to the economic downturn.
at competitive position of our businesses.
Computing, as explained on page 17. dmgt we realise that if you want to these were within dmg information and survive in this sector, you must be able to dmg information a&n media: builder radius, which has react quickly and efficiently to the built a proprietary database of building rapidly changing media world.
if dmgi achieved another record permit information from cities and management teams are able to operating profit, up 14%, maintaining its counties across the us for edr, Calnea exercise relative autonomy, they are impressive history of profits growth, analytics, which supplies automated able to keep decision making as close illustrated on page 20. revenues valuations for residential properties, and to their customer as possible.
real increased by 1%, with strong growth argyll environmental, providers of innovation comes from having a from its companies in the education, environmental risk reports, for customer focus and our decentralised financial and energy information landmark: foresight analytics, which model provides a fertile environment for markets.
provides real estate analysis for innovative people and, in turn, a positive dmgis strategy remains focused on commercial and residential real estate, breeding ground for innovative ideas.
investing in those companies within the for trepp: and 50% of globrix, a uK free existing portfolio which operate in an to list property portal for the digital business to business summary attractive sector and have the property group: and as previously i am pleased to report that our b2b combination of attractive business mentioned, local people which we operations achieved good profit models, strong market positions, growth launched in the summer of 2009. growth in the year, driven by solid potential and good management.
its euromoney also acquired arete subscription revenues and tight cost ambition to invest in must-have, Consulting, a small but high quality control, with no benefit from foreign high-growth, innovative business online publishing business, with its exchange as the average sterling: us information companies remains proprietary database containing dollar exchange rate was unchanged.
unchanged, as does its remit to diversify information on more than 1.3 million they reported combined revenues of dmgt by sector, by business model and structured products around the world.
824 million, down 4% due to the effect by geography.
of prior year disposals within dmg Whilst we have been focused necessarily events, but an improved operating Within property, landmark information on reducing our debt over the short margin up from 24% to 27% on an group and edr are developing their term, our capital constraints have not operating profit of 226 million.
strategy to expand their offering from caused us to miss any significant environmental to green.
We are now in risK management solutions have developed a more ambitious a better position to make acquisitions again, but will continue our policy to growth strategy, which includes further rms achieved another record expansion in serving the financial prioritise a programme of selective operating profit, up 12% on revenues smaller scale deals which we can aspects of the property market and also up 12%, reflecting continued develop and which can benefit from more on physical data on property, growth from both its core modelling our longer-term perspective.
We will together with an increased expansion business and newer initiatives.
margins continue to divest on a periodic basis in germany.
Co-operation between remained at 31%, a very acceptable and our track record over recent years landmark and a&n medias digital level, given the need to invest in the is good on this count.
business to maintain existing subscriptions and in order to drive Within finance, trepp is pursuing its dmgt operational model future growth.
strategy to enter the broader dmgts approach to managing the commercial real estate market.
Within groups companies has not changed: energy, genscape is accelerating its we continue to adopt a decentralised organic growth across new energy structure.
We take a considerable classes, such as gas and oil, and has amount of comfort in the fact that we made progress in strengthening its know all our companies are run by chief management team.
Within education, executives with expert knowledge of hobsons continues to grow in providing their companies and the markets in digital information and services to high which they operate.
over the last year, schools and universities.
7 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chief exeCutives revieW Continued euromoney has outperformed all reach to our chosen audiences over dmg events formerly dmg World media expectations, allowing management to a multitude of platforms, it has had shift its focus to positioning the business a significant deflationary effect on dmg events operating profits fell by just for growth, both from existing products advertising yields and newspaper 7 million, despite a reduction in as markets recover, and from copy sales.
the environment forces revenues of 64 million due to the investment in technology and new us to remain even more focused and impact of prior year disposals.
although products as part of the migration to a orientated around the needs of our the underlying revenues of dmg events digital information business.
customers and on the strength of were down by 9%, the most significant our brands.
euromoneys performance and its shift declines were experienced early in the into more subscription and digital a&n media has made significant year and more recent events have activity means that the board regards it progress in bringing focus to its been in line with or ahead of prior year as core to dmgts own strategic global activities, and is advancing impressively revenues.
in print and in digital consumer media.
the refinement of our portfolio of We continue to focus on building euromoneys separate listing on the exhibitions was concluded earlier in the around the mail brand and formulating london stock exchange has enabled year.
the business has been the next stage of our strategy for the it to introduce its capital appreciation transformed from more than 300 b2C consumer digital market.
plans which have motivated and b2b exhibitions, fairs, conferences management to grow the company the mail titles, despite operating in a and magazines to 36 b2b exhibitions significantly over recent years.
We sector in long term decline, are and will and two conference businesses, all with remain a supportive shareholder, fully be a core business for many years to number one or two positions in their backing its managements expansion come and will continue to offer real market places.
dmgt again took its share of growth opportunities, for example dmg:: events, has been restructured dividends from euromoney in the year because of the excellent progress of its into five operating groups and in the form of a scrip.
this enabled us to online offering, mail online, which has management layers removed.
offset the dilutive effect of the vesting significant growth opportunities ahead growth will be driven by geo-cloning, of the final tranche of euromoneys first of it.
expanding into adjacencies and capital appreciation plan, thereby selected early stage exhibition maintaining our equity interest at assoCiated neWspapers acquisitions.
it is the boards intention have begun to launch new shows the mail publications continue to also to take euromoneys forthcoming once again.
capture market share from competitors.
final dividend in the form of a scrip in Content has been at the heart of our order to avoid dilution caused by its euromoney institutional investor success at associated and we continue management incentive plans.
to invest in editorial quality.
the graph euromoney achieved a record to sum up, within b2b overall there on page 26 shows that our actions are operating profit, up 25%, maintaining remains a concerted continuing focus proving successful with circulation on its recent history of profits growth, on organic growth supplemented by the daily mail stabilising in recent illustrated on page 23. the rebound in bolt-on acquisitions and aimed at months and market share rising once its revenues came faster than expected strengthening the quality of the again for both mail titles.
the increased and it has benefited from early and portfolio over time.
gap in cover price compared to the so aggressive action at the onset of the called quality newspapers, combined downturn in its markets.
Consumer with the pressures from rising newsprint the benefits of euromoneys strategy to prices on those with lower cover prices, higher national advertising revenues, build a more resilient and better may provide us with an option to raise together with a focus on cost control, focused business by increasing the cover prices, once consumer enabled a&n media to increase its proportion of revenues derived from confidence recovers.
this was in subscription products, now nearly a half spite of a reduction of 5% in reported our national free morning newspaper, of total revenues, and transforming a revenues, reflecting portfolio changes metro, grew rapidly this year and predominantly publishing driven and high standards of execution.
released from business to one with significant activities margins rose from 7% to 11%.
competing in the free london in electronic information and database afternoon market, management has services, were again demonstrated by the consumer media industry is been able to turn its entire focus on these results.
continuing to witness a time of metro and has delivered an increase in unprecedented change.
Whilst technology is undoubtedly an enabler, allowing us to extend our 8 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report display advertising of more than 20%.
good progress has been made in our northCliffe media for the first time, it has developed a efforts to monetise the reach of our titles our expectation in may, because of presence in the retail advertising market through database marketing.
the gradually improving uK advertising and launched successful mobile revenue achieved by the growth of trends, that northcliffe uK would move applications.
a new seven and a half a&n media enterprises demonstrates into year on year growth during the year contract with the london the mails ability to diversify revenue second half of the year, proved underground was secured on fair terms streams by leveraging its strong brands over-optimistic.
We now expect for both parties.
our competitors to the and developing new products and northcliffe to have another hard year in irish metro are now our partners in services to meet the needs of its prospect and to continue to suffer from metro herald.
targeted audiences, for instance the effects of reduced public sector through the mails multi-channel retail mail digital made significant progress advertising spend.
this year, recording a 33% improvement advertising recovers, it is difficult to see in revenue.
traffic to its primary website, growth and there is new uncertainty digital only businesses mail online, increased by more than over the property market.
northcliffe is, formerly and 70% to 50 million unique users in however, outperforming its rivals, which october 2010. launched in its current We reassessed our portfolio of is testament to the way its management form only in may 2008, it is already now businesses and reorganised to is transforming the companys the largest uK newspaper website.
it is concentrate on those companies seen operations.
differentiated from the print newspaper as having worthwhile long-term the commercial relationship between by a particular focus on celebrity, prospects.
as a result a number of northcliffe and our pure play digital gossip and colour features which businesses were sold and divisional businesses, in recruitment, property and appeal to a younger demographic of operating costs substantially reduced.
motors, continue to be strategically mid britons, the majority of whom do We are now focused on the verticals of important to the company.
iphone and jobs, property, motors and travel.
the ipod touch versions have recently been digital property group was dmg radio australia launched to be followed by an ipad strengthened with the acquisition of We disposed of 50% of dmg radio version within months.
We therefore see 50% of globrix.
the second half saw a australia.
the new joint venture has digital publishing as a growth pleasing upward trend in revenues at started well with a rise in operating opportunity, and a means of extending Jobsite and the digital property group.
one example is a large and growing non-uK audience, a&n international media summary especially in the usa.
an ambitious northcliffes Central and eastern expansion strategy targeting the us is during 2010 we delivered on our european operations now report underway.
in may, we opened an office promises and have demonstrated the directly to a&n medias Ceo, Kevin is los angeles, to be followed by a new benefits of our diversified international beatty, allowing northcliffes uK york office, in order to increase us portfolio of market-leading businesses leadership to concentrate on the content, users and thereby to drive us with revenue beginning to rise, higher challenges faced in the domestic advertising sales.
operating margins and our debt falling marketplace.
We will in future report rapidly.
i feel confident the group is well there has been much media debate a&n international media within placed to benefit from improvements in about whether online newspaper sites associated.
our markets and from our ongoing should erect paywalls.
our position with its underlying revenues were down by commitment to internal investment in respect to mail online is that few 9% after disposals, mainly from its print organic growth.
consumers will pay for general news business in slovakia which was sold content which they can access free regaining investment grade during the year and from its regional from elsewhere, such as from the bbC, credit status is an objective as we newspapers in hungary.
the and our strategy is to build large contemplate being able safely to performance of our portfolio of digital audiences.
they will pay, however, for expand our balance sheet as we businesses, primarily in Jobs and more specialised information and for move closer to our remaining bond property markets, has improved special applications such as on the repayment in 2013.
Containing and significantly and unique visitor ipad.
this is still very much an emerging eventually eliminating significant engagement with all of our digital area and our approach is to provide liability risk and volatility from our businesses continues to grow.
compelling content and to remain pension schemes remains a flexible on distribution channels high priority.
9 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chief exeCutives revieW Continued because of continuing economic the market appears gradually to be by the year end, we had virtually no uncertainties, we will remain disciplined absorbing the quality of our diversified bank debt and 300 million of unused about our approach to costs and portfolio of assets.
this, together with bank facilities.
We have no refinancing acquisitions.
at the same time we will the operationally geared nature of to contemplate until 2013. having work on building a pipeline of potential our national advertising revenues in beaten our initial debt: ebitda target of new innovative products, and in particular, led to us out-performing 2.5 times by achieving a ratio of 2.3 growing a target list of attractive target our peers again this year.
times, we will continue to manage the bolt-on acquisitions.
ratio down through strong cash flow as a consequence of a decision by ftse generation, in order to create more at our first investor day in march 2009, i in may, in response to the financial capacity to satisfy attractive acquisition stated that our aim for dmgt was to be services authoritys policy notice in and investment opportunities.
a modern company of tomorrow, not a february, to adopt listing classifications legacy company of the past.
We have for determining the weighting of share Whilst we can run the group without a much sounder platform today than classes in their indices, dmgts having to raise new finance, we will we did then on which to execute this weighting in the uK index series will fall want to do so in order to sustain the objective, due to the management from 75% to 0% when our a shares are groups long term growth ambitions.
actions taken right across the group, re-designated by the fsa as having a therefore regaining investment grade and from some recovery in a number of standard listing on 31st may, 2012. dmgt status remains a key objective.
therefore our strategy will remain a premium listed company, remains unchanged.
following this change, by virtue of its resourCes ordinary shares.
pure index funds tend Whilst we believe print is far from dead, the groups main resources are its to hold only around 5% of our a shares.
our growth lies in digital media in both brands, reputation, the market-leading consumer and in b2b, and we are position of its major businesses and Capital struCture increasingly focused on doing what is above all its people.
it is my strong needed to excel in the digital world.
the Company has not made a capital belief that it is the obligation of a Chief call on its shareholders since 1933. executive to leave a company in a We envisage dmgt becoming a global Capital growth is funded by long-term better shape than he found it in and i growth company.
We plan to be debt and by retained earnings.
since realise that the skills required of leaders nimble, bold and decisive in order to the late 1980s, our strategy has been to in our industry ten years ago are not the realise this vision.
our objective is to seek to raise the dividend in real terms same today.
We cannot capitalise on ensure profitable sustainable growth and since 2002, the boards policy has the future unless we invest in the talent over the long term.
been to target a real rate of growth in of today, in the leaders of tomorrow.
the dividend in the region of 5% to 7% We understand that superior business share priCe performanCe on the basis of the directors performance starts with superior our share performance remains confidence in the groups long-term people, and it is my overriding priority important to us as an indicator as to financial health.
to ensure that we continue to attract whether our strategy is understood and and promote the very best talent and having held the dividend during the appreciated by institutional investors.
reward talent suitably in line with financial crisis, whilst maintaining its shareholders interests.
the price of our widely traded a policy of seeking to increase the ordinary non-voting shares has dividend in real terms over the our commitment to raising the bar on been less volatile this year, aided by economic cycle, the board has talent is continuing and increasingly stock lending of the shares trending declared a final dividend up 11%, effective, applying human capital downwards below 15% of the free float.
making an increase of 9% for the year.
where growth prospects are best if the share price started the financial as shown on page 11, the compound you like, to where the money is.
three year at 4.39, falling to 3.90 at the end dividend growth over the last 22 years is dmgt-wide executive training courses of october, before rising to a high of 10% in nominal terms, which is an have been held and talent reviews are 5.33 at the end of april, a movement increase of 7% in real terms.
now taking root in every business under of 36%.
the shares fell back in early the direction of our human resources the Company acquired 2.9 million of summer, along with the wider market director, Joe mcCollum.
its a ordinary shares for 12 million, in the light of the prevailing economic using them to provide shares under uncertainty, before closing the year various incentive plans.
the Company at 5.26. currently holds 9.6 million shares in treasury to meet obligations that may arise to provide shares under various incentive plans.
10 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report We made several further key and influences our outlook on the CommuniCations appointments in order to populate the environment, our employees and We continue our commitment to raising group with new superior talent, coming on local community issues where the profile of dmgt and from within and from outside the group.
communicating the quality, at group level, as the Chairman has as one significant example of how our performance and prospects of the said in his statement, we have hired Cr agenda can have a beneficial group, both internally and externally.
stephen daintith, from dow Jones, who impact, landmark developed Carbon We have increased the regularity and joins us in January to succeed peter Counter, an online service to prepare consistency of our communications.
in Williams as finance director.
We have businesses for the governmental CrC april 2010 we ran our second investor also hired bill raduchel as technology energy efficiency scheme.
furthermore, day which was positively received.
We appointed James Welsh, i am proud to report that dmgt has are planning a further investor day to who joined us from dixons retail, as qualified for this climate change and be held in london on 28th march, 2011. finance director of a&n media in energy saving programme, one central february and who has carried out an to the uKs strategy for reducing carbon relationships With staKeholders, extensive restructuring of its finance dioxide Co emissions.
this is just one other than shareholders 2 team.
at dmg events, geoff dickinson example of how dmgt companies are across the group we take our corporate joined us to run its middle east combining innovation and their responsibility Cr seriously.
dmgt will always invest in business knowledge to drive their permeates our approach to everything its people in order to grow.
it is an attitude which will permeate the group at large over the next few years.
CO efficiency Emissions per revenue tCO m revenue 2 2 for more detailed information on our 06 Cr activities, please see the Cr report 07 on pages 34 to 36 which makes 08 reference to the policies the board has 09 adopted in this area.
10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 dmgt and the environment We recognise that our businesses have an impact on the environment, be that Performance of DMGT A and FTSE All-Share index through our printing operations, offices, relative to values at 30th September, 1988 transport or other activities.
We are truly committed to ensuring that, where 20 18 possible, our impact on the 16 environment is minimised.
14 12 the greatest impact we make arises 10 from our printing operations.
here, i 8 am pleased to say that we have been 6 diligent in measuring and reducing 4 2 waste in our usage of materials, and, 0 through our analysis of our carbon 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 footprint, monitoring and improving our efficiency in the use of energy.
dmgt a ft all-share index We started to measure our footprint in 2006 and the graph shown to the left illustrates that the groups emissions DMGT dividend history for the period 1988 2010 pence have fallen steadily since then.
16 this year both harmsworth Quays, our 14 largest printing plant, and northcliffe 12 house, the Companys headquarters 10 and the london base of associated 8 newspapers, northcliffe media and 6 4 2 0 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 dmgt dividend inflation indicator 1988 - 2010 11 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chief exeCutives revieW Continued dmg events, achieved the key given the size of the Companys as regards the groups principal international environmental standard pension commitments compared to the commodity, newsprint, arrangements iso 14001.
With these facilities now size of the group, this cost needs to be are made annually with a range of recognised as meeting world class controlled to ensure the financial health suppliers to ensure the security of supply standards of environmental of the Company and of these pension at the best available prices, having management, our focus has moved to plans.
accordingly, the board decided regard to the need for the necessary facilities in other parts of our business.
to close its defined benefit final salary quality.
particularly in the light of its plans to new employees from the start strategy to create a diversified dmgt and our employees of the financial year, whilst keeping international portfolio of media them open for current employees.
the businesses, the group is not dependent the number of employees rose by 338 Company has also announced plans to on any suppliers of other commodities, from 14,254 at the beginning of the year introduce a series of measures during nor for its revenue on any particular excluding dmg radio australia to the 2010 11 financial year designed to customer.
distribution arrangements 14,592 at the year end, an increase of help secure the financial health of these are in place to ensure the delivery of 2%, due to an increase within rmss plans into the future.
excluding the india increase and with a continued focus on all new employees of a&n media are trends and faCtors liKely to cost reduction, the number of now offered a defined contribution affeCt the outlooK employees fell by 736 in the year.
Within pension plan, which is consistent with this number there was a fall within our other newer and more We have entered our new financial year northcliffe uK and a&n medias uK internationally focused companies in good heart as our businesses are printing operations of nearly 400 10%, where we have long believed this type performing well.
many markets remain including the job losses from the closure of pension plan to be more appropriate.
tough, however, and there is continuing of our printing plant in plymouth.
economic uncertainty in the medium soCial and Community issues term, including in the uK where the a variety of approaches to staff impact of the governments austerity communications exist within the group, Community involvement is integral to measures has yet to be fully felt.
as explained in our Cr report.
in march, the way we run our company, as is its moreover, whilst we do not anticipate we communicated the introduction of importance to the personal motivation a double dip, external risks, such a share incentive plan, dmgt share of our employees.
We donate money, as the sovereign debt crisis, have not purchase, which is available to all time and in-kind donations such as gone away.
eligible uK staff to give them the radio airtime and advertising space, opportunity to own the Companys and staff participate in a huge range of rms has started the year well with a shares, so that they can benefit if we activities, including fundraising, number of contracts booked and a are successful in meeting our financial organising events and acting as trustees solid sales pipeline.
it is expecting to objectives.
this followed approval by to charitable initiatives.
achieve low double digit growth again shareholders at our agm in february.
information about persons the Company attaches great at dmgi, we expect the combination of With Whom the Company has importance to a clear understanding of continuing investment in core growth ContraCtual or other personal financial issues by its initiatives, combined with improving arrangements essential to employees, a view which prompted the market conditions, to drive a modest the Companys business development by dmgt pensions of an acceleration in revenue and profits online workplace financial information group companies undertake business growth.
co. uk, with a range of customers and at dmg events, recent attendance and which was launched in the uK in august.
there is no dependence on bookings trends have been moderately any particular contractual dmgt has been operating defined encouraging and we anticipate these arrangement, other than those benefit pension schemes, primarily in its continuing to improve in 2011. the disclosed in note 38 to the accounts as newspaper businesses, for a long time forthcoming year will benefit from regards ink and printing, where and has a reputation for the quality of two of our three major biennial shows arrangements are in place until 2015 pension provision.
however, the cost of taking place.
and 2022 respectively to obtain providing this benefit continues to rise competitive prices and to secure as people are expected to live longer supplies.
and, more recently, as turmoil in financial markets has reduced expected investment returns.
12 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report for euromoney, although the broader northcliffe also is focused on revenue outlook for global economic growth opportunities as it builds on its digital remains challenging, the outlook for the strengths and sales capability.
start of the new year is good and for the group as a whole, we will build euromoney expects the good revenue on our achievements over the last two performance achieved in the second years by maintaining firm control of half of the year to continue into the first costs and seizing on the growth quarter.
further, subscriptions were opportunities we see.
our focus will growing at an annual rate of 7% at the remain on cash generation and debt end of 2010, which provides support for reduction, as we seek to recover our further growth in 2011. however, there is investment grade credit rating.
at the uncertainty over the outlook beyond same time, we will continue to drive december.
organic growth through new product after a strong recovery and return to development, investments to increase revenue growth in 2010, euromoney will market share and carefully selected continue to pursue its successful acquisitions.
strategy with an emphasis on investing although we remain wary of market in technology and new  due to continuing economic based electronic information services, uncertainty, the strength of our leaner supplemented with small strategic more focused group with its diversified acquisitions.
the level of spending on international portfolio of market leading technology and new product companies allows the board to be investment will increase further in 2011. cautiously optimistic of achieving in the short term, this may reduce another year of underlying growth.
operating margins as most of the investment is being made in subscription-based electronic martin morgan information services which have a long Chief executive lead time to build and sell.
Within a&n media, national advertising revenue at associated in the first eight weeks of the new year was up 9% on last year, continuing the recovery we have seen since January.
it is still very difficult to predict future revenue trends, but the strength of our key brands, fast growing digital businesses and focused cost control, leave associated well placed to capitalise on any further recovery in the economy.
We are, however, facing upward pressure on newsprint prices.
We expect to see continuing strong growth in mail online readership.
northcliffe is facing another tough year.
advertising revenue in the first eight weeks was down 6% on last year, continuing to track the year on year trend experienced in 2009 10 like-forlike decline of 7%.
the outlook for the first quarter is not expected to improve on this trend.
as with associated, northcliffe will be affected by higher newsprint prices.
although cost reduction initiatives will continue, 13
