Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review Designers at Debenhams continued to be some of our best-performing brands in 2010, including Rocha.
6 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Rob Templeman Chief Executive 21 October 2010 Market Conditions increased signicantly.
Further, sterling deteriorated Overall we were The retail environment remained challenging against the US dollar a key currency for sourcing in pleased with the throughout 2010, continuing the cautious trends of many parts of the world, especially China in the performance of 2009.
Consumers were unsettled by downbeat autumn of 2009 and spring of 2010, reaching a financial and economic news from around the low in May 2010, subsequent to which it has seen the business world which had a direct impact on spending some recovery.
in 2010. decisions on the high street.
Consumer confidence data suggests that consumers were more optimistic There were some clear peaks and troughs in terms in the first half of the financial year, reaching a peak of trading levels through the year.
The year started for the period in February, before falling away in well in autumn 2009 but warmer weather in October the second half source: Nationwide Consumer impacted outerwear sales.
The peak trading season confidence Index.
On a more positive note, interest in November and December held up reasonably rates remained low in the UK meaning many well.
There were concerns over the impact of snow consumers with mortgages still enjoyed some level on the post-Christmas sale but in the event these of higher disposable income which to a certain proved to be unfounded.
The early summer was extent offset concerns over unemployment and impacted by the World Cup and customer caution government nances.
ahead of the new governments emergency budget but trading levels recovered to more normal levels in Overall, the total clothing market by value increased July and August.
The Republic of Ireland continued by 1.3 per cent during 2010.
However, this appears to be a tough market throughout the year but to have been a function of price increases rather activity levels appear to have stabilised after several than underlying market growth.
Average selling quarters of decline.
prices increased by 4.0 per cent whilst volumes decreased by 2.7 per cent source for all data: Performance Highlights Kantar Worldpanel Fashion 24 weeks market share Overall, we were pleased with the performance of data to 5 September 2010 vs 2009.
The increase in the business in 2010.
We said at the outset that it selling prices accelerated as the year progressed, was a year of structural change following the driven by a number of factors, most notably higher extensive shift in the sales mix during the last quarter cost prices in the supply chain, as well as an increase of 2009 and therefore a year when we would judge in VAT from January 2010.
A poor cotton harvest in a the business on profit rather than sales.
This was number of countries led to sharp increases in raw borne out in the results for the year which saw cotton prices during 2010 which in turn increased headline profit before tax increase by 20.6 per cent the cost of cotton fabrics.
Synthetic fabric prices also over the prior year to 151.0 million note: headline increased.
There were capacity concerns in some profit before tax is after adding back 5.7 million countries such as Bangladesh, which experienced of amortisation of capitalised bank fees and some high-prole labour relations issues too.
Labour exceptional items of 5.4 million.
costs were also increasing in other countries, most notably in parts of China.
In addition, freight prices 7 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review continued Mantaray for women was launched in AW09 and has since been extended to all Debenhams stores.
These Bluezoo squirters are sure to be on many childrens wishlists for Christmas this year.
There was progress on the sales line too, Space expansion t with gross transaction value up by 9.6 per cent including Magasin du Nord Magasin, the Danish Multi-channel development t department store group acquired during the course of the year, and by 1.4 per cent excluding Magasin.
Balance sheet management t Like-for-like sales for the year were at.
We said throughout the year that like-for-like sales in 2010 Product Strategy would be impacted by some 1.5 per cent due to our The aim of our product strategy is to ensure we have strategy of improving gross margins by increasing the right products available for customers to buy at the penetration of own bought sales which involved the right time and at the right price.
In a crowded the conversion of over 530,000 square feet of trading high street, it is our product strategy that offers a space from concessions to own bought in the fourth Our strong childrenswear offer, point of difference through our unique mix of own including Buttery by Matthew quarter of 2009. bought and concession brands.
Williamson, helped us to gain market share during 2010.
Market share gains were made in menswear and Over the last 18 months we have been pursuing childrenswear increasing by 50 basis points and 20 a product strategy that focuses on own bought basis points respectively to 5.1 per cent and 3.9 per brands principally private label and Designers cent.
Our overall fashion share increased by 20 basis at Debenhams rather than concession brands.
Womenswear share was Own bought brands are attractive because they impacted by lower sales densities arising out of last generate higher margins than concessions and years sales moves and as a result is unchanged at allow us total control over product ranges.
This impact will fall away as we move own bought sales accounted for 80.2 per cent of into the first quarter of 2011.
Source for market share total sales excluding Magasin.
Whilst own bought data: Kantar Worldpanel Fashion 24 weeks market sales will vary by store brand new stores are already share data to 5 September 2010 vs. 2009. at over 90 per cent own bought whereas larger, older stores will always have a higher concession The multi-channel business continued to grow with mix our medium-term target for the whole estate Debenhams Direct sales up 88.4 per cent to 103.8 is 85 per cent own bought sales, 15 per cent million.
Much of this growth was driven by our concession sales.
ongoing strategy of integrating the store business with the online business.
Towards the end of 2009, we converted 530,000 square feet of trading space from concessions to Strategy for Growth: Progress and Plans own bought.
This space increase was achieved in a Debenhams has a clear strategy for growth which is number of ways.
First, several new own bought based around four key themes: brands were introduced, including Mantaray and Buttery by Matthew Williamson in womenswear and Product strategy Bluezoo in childrenswear.
Secondly, some existing t brands were extended into other categories, such as 8 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business AW10 saw the launch of Ben fide Lisis first Home collection for Debenhams.
Ben is one of eight Designers at Debenhams to be found in the Home department.
9 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review continued Pixie Geldof was the face of the SS10 launch of new Designers at Debenhams brand H!
is our first designer brand aimed at 16-24 year old fashion-focused customers.
10 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Menswear brand Fit For Purpose F. F. P was launched in July 2010.
Designer Jeff Banks opened Champion boxers Frankie Gavin and Kevin Mitchell are the faces our new store in Bath in of the brand.
Ben fide Lisi from womenswear into homeware.
Finally, further additions to the designer portfolio, building existing brands increased their footprint in existing on the success of Ben fide Lisis home launch in stores and or were introduced into additional stores.
House and Home by Lisa In 2010, we have focused on consolidating the Stickley arrived in store towards the end of the year.
space moves as well as moving the strategy forward Lisa is a specialist home designer who has created by introducing further new own bought brands.
a fresh, quirky and witty collection for the kitchen, breakfast and dinner table and bedroom.
Buttery High street favourite Principles was relaunched in Home by Matthew Williamson was introduced at the conjunction with designer Ben fide Lisi for spring same time, the first home collection anywhere from summer 2010.
Principles had been a successful the hugely successful catwalk designer.
Matthews concession in Debenhams but fell into administration home collection stays true to his daring approach in 2009 after several years of declining sales.
We to colour and pattern, inspired by cultures around subsequently acquired the brand which led to it theworld.
returning to the high street exclusively in 125 Debenhams stores as Principles by Ben fide Lisi.
Looking forward, we will continue to focus on own Since launch, Principles has gone from strength to bought brands, both private label and Designers at strength and for autumn winter 2010 will be Debenhams, working towards our 85 per cent target.
New launches include a new menswear brand Fit For Purpose F. F. P. which targets 20-35 year old Our Designers at Debenhams portfolio entered a male customers, a new development in Designers new market during 2010 with the launch of H!
by at Debenhams called Edition and a new range Henry Holland for young fashion-focused customers from Julien Macdonald called Diamond.
Womens in the 16-24 age bracket.
We know these customers footwear brand Faith will also be relaunched as an already shop in Debenhams because they buy own bought brand.
young fashion concession brands and cosmetics and so an extensive PR and social media campaign Space Expansion We were delighted to welcome Lisa Stickleys fresh, quirky House accompanied the launch of H!
specically aimed to New Stores and Home range to Designers appeal to the brands young target customers.
Although Debenhams has been a feature on the at Debenhams during 2010.
British high street for over 200 years, the store portfolio Specialist home designer Lisas Increasing the penetration of Designers at is still relatively immature with 148 department stores quintessentially English brand includes kitchenware, china Debenhams has been a key focus in the home and 13 of our small format Desire stores in the UK and bedlinen.
department over the past couple of years.
In difficult and the Republic of Ireland and six department economic times when the property market is slow, stores in Denmark.
In addition, there are 60 many people look to refresh their homes with new international franchise stores in 23 countries.
We accessories and co-ordinates rather than move generate strong returns on new stores and believe house or undertake major refurbishment projects.
increasing the size of the store portfolio is a good use This plays very much to the strengths of Designers at of shareholders money.
In total, we believe there Debenhams for the home.
To this end, 2010 has seen are up to 240 locations which could support a 11 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review continued Debenhams city centre store in Manchester has recently undergone a multi-million pound refurbishment to bring it up to the standard of a agship store above and right.
department store in the UK and Ireland and 100 Store Refurbishments In 2010, which could support a Desire store.
There is also the With the slowing of the store pipeline generally due six new stores possibility to add two or three additional stores in to circumstances beyond Debenhams control we were opened Denmark and there are many opportunities for new are focusing on refurbishing some of our older core international franchise stores, stores to improve their performance.
stores, refurbished stores generate strong returns on In 2010, six new stores were opened in the UK.
This capital, with the current wave expected to generate comprised three department stores and three Desire 20-25 per cent return on capital.
The new department stores were a agship main refurbishment formats.
The first is agship store in Newcastle-upon-Tyne February 2010, refurbishments which we undertake in large city 128,000 sq ft, Carmarthen April 2010, 59,000 sq ft centre heritage stores and market ownership stores and Bury, Greater Manchester July 2010, 71,000 i. e. where Debenhams is the only department store sq ft.
The new Desire stores were Kidderminster in a town or city.
The programme of works includes September 2009, 22,000 sq ft, Witney October new ooring, new lighting, a new cosmetics hall 2009, 14,000 sq ft and Monks Cross, York October including new house builds and new services such 2009, 24,000 sq ft.
In addition, Debenhams acquired as a new food offer.
The average cost of a agship six stores in Denmark through the acquisition of refurbishment is 25 per sq ft and the work takes Magasin du Nord which completed in January 2010, around 120 days.
Other stores undergo a store adding 897,000 sq ft.
In total, total trading space upgrade, which focuses on improved space increased by 1,204,000 sq ft in 2010 after the closure utilisation and a visual make-over.
These of two external locations totalling 11,000 sq ft, giving refurbishments cost some 20 per sq ft and take a year-end total of 12,250,000 sq ft, an increase of around 90 days to complete.
Average new space increased by 8.8 per cent.
In 2010, we undertook agship refurbishments in Glasgow and Manchester both city centre Looking to the future, the new store opening heritage stores and store upgrades in Swindon and pipeline has inevitably been impacted by recent Bristol.
We have seen good uplifts in terms of sales economic turmoil which has seen a number of and margins following the completion of each shopping centre developments in the UK become of these projects.
In 2011, five major refurbishments delayed or cancelled.
As a result, in 2011 we will will be undertaken in time for peak trading, open two new department stores comprising Bath, namely Leeds City Centre, Merryhill, Milton Keynes, which opened in September 2010, and Wakeeld Portsmouth and Romford.
In the second half of the which is currently scheduled to open in May 2011. year, refurbishments are planned for another five Further out, there are another 30 contracted or stores.
In total, some 40 stores remain to be possible new store openings.
refurbished and we aim to complete these over the next three or four years.
12 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Designer John Rocha joined Debenhams acquired Denmarks leading Amongst the 11 new us in Copenhagen on a rainy department store group Magasin du international franchise stores day to attend the 2010 Danish Nord in 2010, including its iconic store in opened during 2010 was our Fashion Awards.
first store in Baku, Azerbaijan.
Store Acquisitions expertise which will again allow it to become more Magasin is an In January 2010, Debenhams completed the price competitive as well as increasing margins.
iconic retail brand acquisition of Denmarks leading department store Overall, we believe that Magasins gross margin, in Denmark.
This comprised six wellwhich was 32.7 per cent in 2010, will increase by invested department stores including the agship 500-600 basis points over the medium term which store in central Copenhagen.
The acquisition price will result in its EBITDA margin improving to doublewas 6.7 million.
The acquisition of Magasin was the digit level over the same time period.
We have third acquisition of stores in recent years, following been pleased with the performance of Magasin Allders and Roches in 2005 and 2006 respectively.
Danish customers are responding favourably to the Debenhams product ranges Magasin is an iconic retail brand in Denmark.
introduced so far and the performance of the stores However, it had experienced declining profits for a which have introduced the most Debenhams number of years, chiey due to an unstable merchandise have improved from the worstownership structure which left it cash constrained.
performing stores in the portfolio to the best.
This resulted in a brand mix comprised chiey of low gross margin, high price concession and Going forward, we will continue to execute our plans consignment brands which led to an unsustainably for Magasin and we believe it will contribute some low profit margin.
Private label own bought brands 13-14 million of EBITDA and 7-10 million of profit accounted for less than 5 per cent of total before tax in 2011. sales.
Magasin was an attractive acquisition for Debenhams for a number of reasons: it was low cost As part of our aim to extend Debenhams and low risk: we had previous sales experience in international reach and build global brands Denmark through our international franchise stores: profitably, we will evaluate other store acquisition Denmark can be serviced from our UK distribution opportunities as and when they become available.
network: and English is widely spoken in Denmark.
We believe there are other department store chains As well as the improvements we believe we can in Europe which could benefit from the same make to Magasin itself, this acquisition also creates approach as we have used for Magasin.
a platform and business model for further expansion of internationally owned assets.
International Franchise Stores A cornerstone of our international strategy is our Magasin stores are not being rebranded as franchise stores which complement owned assets Debenhams, they will retain their current and such as Magasin.
Franchise stores are particularly much-loved branding.
Instead, we will be focusing important in distant and emerging markets where on widening consumer appeal and increasing the local knowledge of our franchise partner is margins by introducing selected Debenhams crucial for success.
private label and Designers at Debenhams brands into the stores.
Magasin will also benefit from By the end of 2010 we had 60 franchise stores in 23 leveraging Debenhams buying and supply chain countries, a net increase of eight stores during the 13 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review continued In October 2010 we launched our iPhone Another new innovation in our multiapp, expanding our multi-channel channel business is Debenhams TV, a suite business into the mobile market.
Find the of online videos to provide customers with app in the iTunes app store.
year including market entry in Azerbaijan, Egypt, Multi-channel access points: significant progress We want our Kazakhstan, Malta and Vietnam.
was made in this area in 2010 including the multi-channel introduction of instore ordering to all stores and the business to The stores performed well in 2010, although some trialling of self-service kiosks, the launch of collect markets were affected by macroeconomic factors.
from store and international delivery.
Most recently, be engaging, an iPhone app and Debenhams TV, our online video inspiring, relevant Over the medium-term we expect the franchise facility, have been launched.
portfolio to expand to 100 stores.
website for the Republic of Ireland will be introduced during the first half of 2011.
Multi-Channel Debenhams multi-channel business has grown Multi-channel marketing: our aim is to produce clear strongly over the last two years, with Debenhams and consistent messaging across our stores and all Direct sales up nearly 150 per cent on a two-year customer communications.
com has become e-mail marketing for some time and have been our largest store and we are now in the top ten actively increasing the size of our marketing online retailers for both fashion and home.
We have also been seeking to improve search engine optimisation and were By 2014, online is expected to inuence 50 per cent pleased to be ranked number one for UK fashion of all UK non-food sales whether through browsing search in the third quarter of 2010 source: online prior to buying instore, using click and collect Greenlight.
We are fully engaged with social media or reserve, buying online or using instore ordering such as Facebook and Twitter.
We want to engage with our customers fully through all these channels and to make them Easier customer journey: in 2010 we improved page relevant, inspiring and convenient.
layout and navigation on debenhams.
We also introduced a much cleaner and faster checkout Our strategy for multi-channel development is process.
Looking forward, a new web platform will based on: be introduced during 2011 which will improve the customer journey further.
increasing multi-channel access points: t Content: we want our online content to reect what effective multi-channel marketing: we are famous for instore: in particular Designers at t Debenhams, health and beauty and gifting.
We add an easier customer journey: and new products and ranges to debenhams.
com all t the time and our SKU count online increased by 10.4 improving product content and availability.
Going forward, we will be t 14 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business We were delighted to welcome a new lingerie brand for AW10, B by Ted Baker above and right.
The exclusive range of lingerie and sleepwear is available in 63 Debenhams stores.
increasing our product content in the footwear, Summary and Outlook There is much electrical, furniture and garden categories.
In health 2010 was a year of structural change for Debenhams to be optimistic and beauty, a number of top brands will be available and we are pleased with the performance of the about for online by spring summer 2011 including MAC and business.
Our focus on margin and profit Bobbi Brown.
improvement has been successful with both gross Debenhams.
margin and headline profit before tax moving Balance Sheet Management ahead strongly.
Ensuring our business has a sound capital structure remains an important priority.
Looking forward, the outlook for consumer confidence over the coming year remains uncertain.
The balance sheet has been transformed over the It is therefore right for us to be cautious in the way we past two years, including last years capital raising plan and manage the business.
There is, however, through the issue of 404 million new shares to raise much to be optimistic about for Debenhams.
The some 300 million and a debt buy-back programme benets of higher own bought sales will continue to which has bought back a total of 91.6 million over be evident in 2011 and future years and now that the past two years at an average discount of 4.2 per the disruption to sales has annualised, we will look to cent of which 30.2 million took place in 2010. move the sales line ahead as well as continuing growth in margins and profits.
In particular we would Debenhams is a business that produces strong expect to see some recovery in our womenswear cash generation.
In 2010, free cash ow before market share in 2011.
We are confident that Magasin exceptional items amounted to 212.3 million, an du Nord will deliver on both the financial and increase of 55.8 million over the prior year.
strategic objectives that we set ourselves when we first looked at acquiring the business.
Multi-channel In July 2010 we announced that Debenhams bank will continue to develop into a truly integrated model facilities had been renanced, well ahead of the that serves customers not only in our home markets April 2011 deadline.
The new 650 million senior but around the world and takes advantage of new facility comprises a 250 million term loan and a technology to drive sales.
Strong returns and sales 400 million revolving credit facility expiring in uplifts from refurbished stores such as Glasgow and October 2013 with an option to extend to October Manchester will offset any temporary gaps in the 2014.
Although the board did not propose a store opening pipeline.
We will continue to generate dividend for 2010, it is the boards intention that high levels of cash and will also see lower interest subject to satisfactory trading and economic costs starting from May 2011 when the new bank conditions it will return to paying a dividend at the facility commences.
All of this will collectively enable interim stage of the new financial year April 2011 Debenhams to make further progress in the financial at an initial dividend cover of around three times.
15 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Chief Executives Review continued KPI Strategy 2010 Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Gross transaction value m GTV is a measure of overall GTV grew by 9.6 per cent during sales for the business, including 2010 including the acquisition concession sales.
The board of Magasin du Nord and by 10 2,564 believes it is a good guide 1.4 per cent excluding Magasin.
09 2,340 to the overall activity of the Company.
08 2,336 Like-for-like sales provides Like-for-like sales were impacted Like-for-like sales growth % a measure of annual sales in 2010 by the strategy of performance from stores that improving gross margin by 0 10 have been open for one year increasing own bought sales 3.6 09 or more.
This metric is therefore penetration.
This impact is an indication of organic estimated to be c. 1.5 per cent.
Headline profit before tax m Headline profit before tax is Headline profit before tax the boards principal measure increased by 20.6 per cent in of profitability.
Over the last two years 10 151.0 it has risen by 37.1 per cent.
09 125.2 The board believes this is a strong performance given the 08 110.1 difficult trading environment.
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Percentage of own bought sales % A key element of our product The extensive space moves strategy is to increase the undertaken at the end of last own bought sales mix and year resulted in this KPI moving 10 80.2 take advantage of the higher ahead well in 2010, towards 09 76.0 margins generated by own our medium-term target of bought sales over concessions.
Trading space m sq ft New store openings are the Trading space increased biggest driver of trading space.
by 1,204,000 sq ft in 2010, Our disciplined approach to including 897,000 sq ft arising 10 12.3 capital expenditure on new out of the acquisition of 09 11.0 stores ensures we generate Magasin.
In the UK, six new strong returns from new space.
08 10.7 Debenhams Direct sales m The development of a Online sales increased by 88.4 multi-channel business that per cent in 2010 as the benets integrates the store and of multi-channel development 10 103.8 Debenhams Direct activities began to be realised.
A host of 09 55.1 is a key part of our strategy new features and services were for growth.
08 42.1 Net debt m Net debt is the KPI used to Net debt reduced further in measure balance sheet 2010 in light of strong cash strength.
Ensuring the Company generation within the business.
10 516.8 has an appropriate capital Overall, net debt has nearly 09 590.3 structure to support future halved over the past two years.
growth is key to our success.
08 994.0 16 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Homeowners looking for relief from economic gloom started a shopping boom for ornate chandeliers in 2010.
Sales in Debenhams reached an all-time high with new lines introduced in stores and online to meetdemand.
17 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
