05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executives overview Serving the people in our local communities at one of the most difficult times in their lives remains at the centre of everything we do at Dignity.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Delivering profitable growth and building value Our crematoria portfolio has increased to 33 with a further for shareholders two due to become operational in 2011.
I am delighted that yet again, Dignity has delivered strong growth in its operating performance and earnings per share National marketing, principally through affinity partners, by continuing to follow its long term strategy.
Since the end of pre-arranged funeral plans of 2007, which marked the start of the recent economic This source of incremental future business for our funeral crisis, the Groups underlying operating profits have grown division has had a very successful year.
This is attributable by 28 per cent, cash generated from operations has increased to strong relationships being developed with our affinity by 26 per cent and underlying earnings per share have partners, in particular the Age UK charity.
The results for 2010 represent the seventh consecutive year of growth in each of these measures.
A strong platform for sustainable growth Over the years, we have demonstrated that the strategy we The Return of Value in the year means that an investor at the operate suits the stable nature of this business.
This was time of the IPO will have had nearly all their initial investment demonstrated very well in 2010 with the Group rebalancing returned in cash and still hold shares in Dignity which, at its capital structure through the issue of further Secured the current market price, are worth approximately twice Notes and the return of 1 per Ordinary Share to our their original investment.
Our consistent strategy and business model continue Valuing our people to drive performance: Our history of success is undoubtedly due to our stable and Continued commitment to client service excellence experienced management team.
I remain grateful for their We monitor many details about the services we perform ceaseless efforts to improve the service we provide.
All our and the tremendous responses we get back from the families staff remain key to the success of this business.
I would like we serve demonstrate the high level of service that we to pay tribute to each of them and in particular thank them provide.
Details of these responses are summarised in for the extraordinary lengths they went to in December the Business Review.
As a result of their efforts, only a very small number of funerals and cremations had to Continuing to control our costs be rescheduled.
It is crucial that as well as increasing revenues, we control our costs.
I am pleased that cost control has remained It gives me great pleasure that we were able to share the strong and that the Group remains focused on this Groups success with our staff, by paying a total of 1.7 important aspect of our strategy.
million discretionary bonus payments, an increase of 13 per cent on the previous year.
All full time employees with full Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations attendance received over 1,000.
We continue to identify and acquire well established businesses and incorporate them into our funeral location Serving our local communities for generations portfolio.
The funeral services market remains very We are funeral people.
This is all we do and we are obsessive fragmented, which should lead to further acquisition about it.
Our local businesses have, in many cases, been opportunities in the coming years.
In addition, we are established in their communities for generations and to this testing a number of satellite funeral locations.
day we have many employees who are descendants of the founders of those businesses.
Developing, managing or acquiring additional crematoria where possible Serving the people in our local communities at one of the In the last couple of years, development activity in the most difficult times in their lives remains at the centre of crematoria division has increased significantly.
everything we do at Dignity.
1903 1914 1928 1930 1950 1994 2008 Today Birmingham John Bardgett & Son, Jonathan Harvey, South London Seaford&Newhaven Dignity Caring Northern Ireland Dignity is a British Crematorium Newcastle upon Tyne Glasgow Crematorium Funeral Service, Funeral Services Dignity acquires six company that is Birmingham John Bardgett, who In 1928, Jonathan Following World War East Sussex All of these branches in Northern listed on the London Crematorium opened had been a branch Harvey, a local motor One more people C Morling Ltd, businesses came Ireland.
At this time manager of another engineer who became interested primarily a building together in 1994 these are in Belfast Dignity maintains the it was only one of local funeral director, managed a vehicle in cremation and the company whose when Dignity was with one each in rich heritage of these nine crematoria in established his own hire company and fifth crematorium in carpenters had made created through Bangor, Newtonabbey companies and we the UK.
By cab service, opened London was built in coffins for over 100 the merger of and Carrickfergus.
strive to set the 1916 his three sons, a funeral business Streatham in 1930. years, opened an Plantsbrook Group highest standards John Ernest, Arthur on Argyle Street in There were originally office in Seaford as and Great Southern in the industry.
A second three chapels but its funeral business.
Group and was rejoined him and Jonathan Harvey only St Georges branded as Dignity formed a limited funeral location was remains in use today.
in 2001. company in 1935. established in 1950 The mausoleum was They were the first and over the next 40 the first to be built funeral services in years another four in Britain in over Newcastle to have branches were 150 years.
