Directors Report: Business Overview Chief Executives Statement To provide an unbeatable combination of value, choice and service, we have put the customer at the heart of everything we do.
John Browett Chief Executive We are two years into an intense period of work and progress Our colleagues in the Nordics are already well versed in these under our Renewal and Transformation plan.
Customers are increasingly recognising the great significant changes to the business.
This year we really started experience they get in our stores across the region and are to see the benefits.
With the customer at the heart of everything rewarding us with greater market share and higher profitability we do, we are offering an unbeatable combination of value, in our Elkjp Group.
We will be developing these colleague choice and service.
training programmes across all our Continental European operations to share best practice in customer engagement.
For clarity on our goals for customers, we have established the core purpose of the Group as bringing life to technology.
The We will also be improving the information available to stores simple principle is to make technology exciting and accessible to ensure they can better match colleague rostering with for our customers, helping them to choose the right product customer footfall.
for their needs and then to get the most out of it once they get home.
In order to deliver on our core purpose and to constantly Its an exciting place to be focus the business and our colleagues on the customer we We have now transformed over 200 stores across the Group.
have developed our Customer Plan.
Under each customer The new formats provide a layout that is easier to shop, more promise there lies a detailed programme of work to assist in the contemporary in look and feel as well as enabling customers delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan and achieve to try products before they buy through the use of improved our target of an EBIT return on sales of 3%-4%.
I would like to shop fittings, such as playtables.
Also, by improving ranges and share with you some of the great work we are doing under each working with suppliers we can make our shops more appealing element of the Customer Plan.
and showcase technology that makes a difference.
This year we carried out a detailed analysis of our store portfolio Theyre interested in working out whats right for me in the UK to determine the ideal footprint of stores that will best We must give every customer trusted and great advice whenever serve customers needs.
This is a combination of High Street they come into our stores.
Our colleague training programme stores, Megastores and combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World called FIVES gives our people good product knowledge and Superstores.
Our long term goal is to get to 500 stores in the skills.
Our selling service is broken down into five parts so that UK with up to 70 Megastores, 330 Superstores, the majority we understand a customers needs, match the appropriate of which will be combined 2-in-1 stores, and up to 100 High product to those needs and also help the customer understand Street stores.
Our Megastores create a real destination for our the features and benefits to ensure they get the most out of their customers where they can experience the widest range of product.
All our colleagues in the UK have already been through electrical products under one roof.
Our combined 2-in-1 Currys FIVES training and many are now going through additional & PC World Superstores bring the expertise of PC World to programmes to reinforce our approach.
more locations alongside the strength of the Currys brand in We have also improved our product training, often with the consumer electrical and white goods.
We have new methods to help our Outside the UK, we are also reformatting stores using the same colleagues understand the products in our stores and to ensure principles as we have developed for Currys and PC World as they can provide detailed information to our customers.
well as trialling and rolling out Megastores.
16 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Colleagues Theyre interested in working out whats right Problems for me Stores They deal Its an exciting with queries place to be and complaints brilliantly Customer Post Purchase Plan They make Stores things work Its easy and keep to shop them working Products Value I can get The prices what I want are good when I want it We have also improved our websites in the UK using PIXmanias customers better understand the features and benefits of the market leading e-merchant platform.
Our customers on the web products.
We are also introducing customer journeys to ensure now have better product information, improved navigation and customers have all they need to get the most out of their products easier screen layouts making it easier for customers to find the when they get them home.
Our reserve&collect facility, that allows customers to browse and choose products on our websites and then reserve for Its easy to shop collection from a convenient store, continues to be popular and Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier this demonstrates how across all our platforms we aim to make than ever before for our customers to choose the right product.
it an easy shopping trip for customers.
We are improving signage and ticketing information to help DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 17 Directors Report: Chief Executives Statement continued Business Overview I can get what I want when I want it The prices are good We have improved ranges to ensure we have the best product As the market leader in many of our markets, we are able in stock for customers needs.
We are constantly listening to to leverage our international presence and size to allow us and learning from our customers to help us develop ranges to offer our customers great deals at great prices every day.
Of course, we need to ensure that the product is always We constantly monitor prices in our markets and on the internet available and so we have improved our logistics infrastructure to to ensure we are always one step ahead of our competitors.
reduce complexity and increase availability.
True availability is at The DSGi brands must be famous for value and we will record levels.
This work has also enabled us to hold more stock continuously improve the prices we offer customers.
All this in the centre to ensure the products are always in the right place is backed up by our market leading price promise to refund for the customer, as well as enabling us to increase the turnover 110% of the difference if a customer finds the same product of our stock, improving working capital.
We have made significant cheaper elsewhere.
progress, but we will be making further improvements in the year ahead.
They make things work and keep them working Our TechGuys are available to help our customers get their We have introduced choices on delivery for customers which products working and keep them working.
From in-store advice range from next day three hour timed delivery slots, to free to installation and set-up at home, from telephone and internet delivery, to even a follow-me-home service at our Megastores.
advice to repair, we are committed to helping our customers Our services team have done a fantastic job of making sure with issues and problems they encounter with the electrical we get it right first time for customers, and if there is an issue, products they use.
This year we have built a state of the art resolving it quickly to ensure the customer gets their product facility in Newark for TV and laptop repairs.
Consequently, when we say they will.
We have introduced data and processes we have significantly improved the service we can offer while to ensure customers are informed of when we are on the way to reducing costs.
For example, we have now reduced the repair them to help them plan their day around the expected delivery.
time for TVs to less than six days.
As a result, we are achieving a 99.8% success rate on first or second delivery.
We will continuously strive to improve this, but We have introduced practices and processes to keep we now operate the UKs leading home delivery and installation customers informed of deliveries and repairs and our Premier service for electricals.
Club support agreement even provides customers with a loan TV or laptop while it is away for repair.
The scale at which we operate in this area gives us a unique competitive advantage.
Our customers can trust us to provide them with expertise and help with whatever challenge they face.
It also enhances the trust and brand perception of Currys and PC World.
Outside of the UK, the repair and service functions operate differently market by market.
However, we will, over time, use the learnings from the UK across the rest of Europe.
Working with suppliers our new store formats are great places to showcase the latest technology.
18 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly Outlook This year we made the decision to bring our call centre back The economic backdrop across Europe has remained in house.
As a result, we now own the contact with customers challenging throughout the year.
We expect these conditions when they have a problem or query.
We have made the to continue throughout the coming year in many of our markets, processes simpler.
Through using root cause analysis of why particularly in the UK where consumer spending will come under customers are contacting us, we are reducing the need for pressure from fiscal tightening.
We are well prepared for this them to do so.
When a customer does have an issue we are environment and continue to focus on improving the offer for empowering our colleagues to take ownership of the issue customers while managing costs, margins, stock turn and cash to achieve a swift and satisfactory resolution.
Consequently, given the Renewal and Transformation plan, Group profitability will continue to improve.
The majority of the work we are doing under the Customer Plan has been focused on the UK where we see the greatest Despite all the economic uncertainties the customer remains opportunity to improve the business and profitability for the at the heart of all that we do.
benefit of not just our customers but also for our shareholders.
While we are improving the stores in our operations across the Group we also see opportunities for many elements of the Customer Plan to be used right across the Group.
Our businesses outside the UK also have many practices that we can bring to the UK.
Our aim is to share these across the Group so we can John Browett be best in class in all our businesses.
Chief Executive We have made a significant amount of change, particularly in the last year, and I am pleased to say that our customers are starting to notice.
Satisfaction measures from our mystery shops and exit interviews in the UK are rising and, for the first time, we now have over 80% of our customers scoring us as being satisfied or very satisfied with their experience.
This is a significant improvement on where the business has been historically, but we still have more to do.
I am also pleased to see that our advocacy is improving with a 80% increase in customers who are now very likely to recommend our stores to their friends and family.
The new combined Currys & PC World 2-in-1 stores provide customers with the range, expertise and authority of both brands in one convenient location.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 19
