Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 08 BuSINESS REvIEw chieF eXecUtiVes statement Introduction Commodity markets The highlight of 2010 was without doubt The commodity markets in 2010 remained the delivery of excellent operational challenging.
Dark green spreads, the performance.
A number of best ever difference between power price and the performances at the power plant enhanced cost of coal and carbon, continued to our profitability, which was underpinned by deteriorate in the early part of 2010, the strong contracted position we had in and by April reached their lowest levels place at the start of the year.
However, during the second outstanding operational performance, quarter we experienced some improvement whilst maintaining a close watch on costs, in market conditions followed by generally emphasises the value of sustained effort on stable, although still relatively low, spreads investing in and improving our operations through the second half of the year.
Demand for electricity stabilised in 2010 Our electricity supply arm, Haven Power after the effects of the recession.
Gas again Limited Haven Power, continues to proved to be the dominant factor in driving provide us with a valuable alternative power prices, and therefore dark green to trading through the wholesale market.
Increasing we delivered our 2010 target for sales gas prices fed into power prices due to the growth and remain convinced of the increased cost of gas-fired generation.
potential to grow a significant retail Coal prices started to increase in the last business through Haven Power.
months of the year as a result of supply we continued to make progress in constraints in the Pacific market due to our biomass operations, both through severe weather conditions, particularly increasing our capability to burn biomass at in Australia, coupled with strong Asian Drax Power Station and our development demand.
Despite not purchasing coal from work to build a dedicated biomass business Australia and sourcing around half of our in partnership with Siemens Project ventures.
coal from the uK, we feel the impact of In fact, in 2010, we believe Drax Power constraints on the global market for Station generated the highest renewable coal, which puts pressure on international output from a single uK facility.
However, our contracted position affords some protection from A number of best ever increasing prices.
performances at the power plant enhanced our profitability, which was underpinned by the strong contracted position we had in place at the start of the year.
Building on the working relationship already in place through the generation side of our business, we secured Associated British Ports as an electricity customer in 2010 and have been supplying all the ports and office buildings since 1 January 2011. Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 09 Future growth potential Haven Power provides us with an important alternative and direct route to market for our power, and is already demonstrating its ability to grow its customer base.
we believe Haven Power has the potential to grow StanleyBlack&Decker was significantly in the future.
secured as an electricity customer in 2009 and we first started to supply all the sites in 2010.
The business has since renewed its contract with us for a further term.
we secured Santander as an electricity customer in 2010, and from 1 January 2011 we started to supply the buildings that house the important back office support functions.
In 2010, we secured the university of Sussex as an electricity customer and started to supply the campus in the same year.
one of our key priorities: GroW oUr retaiL cUstomer Base Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 10 BuSINESS REvIEw chieF eXecUtiVes statement Operating performance management focus Our availability and reliability throughout Through the re-design of our operation and the year meant that, once again, Drax was maintenance processes we have laid the able to prove its worth, providing flexible foundation for good performance.
This work generation output and balancing services continues alongside a focus on innovation and strong cost control.
in support of system stability and security.
maintaining the asset The key operational performance A year of best ever performances saw record indicators demonstrate excellent results low periods when we were unable to generate for 2010.
Our safety statistics continue to and consequently our availability was at a record high.
Once again our leadership position in the be industry-leading, and the periods when coal-fired sector was demonstrated.
we were unable to generate were at record lows, which meant our availability was at a record high.
For the year, our forced outage rate, which measures any reduction in plant availability excluding planned outages, was 3.4%, which compares very favourably to our long-term target of 5%.
we delivered this operating performance whilst keeping a tight control on costs.
It is important to note that our long-term target has been set through extensive benchmarking with uK and international coal-fired plant to determine the optimum balance between performance and cost.
we continued to work on increasing our burn of fuels which have a financial advantage to the standard bituminous coal industry-leading safety performance which we burn.
Our alternative fuel burn, Our safety statistics continue to be industrywhich includes biomass, and petcoke and leading, comparing very favourably with those of our sector peers and with international other economically advantageous fuels, benchmarks.
Our annual safety conference accounted for 12% of the total fuel burnt for contractors and staff sets expectations during the year.
The re-design of our operation and maintenance processes continues and is now becoming well embedded and provides the platform for delivering good performance, whilst implementing a seamless interface between innovations on fuels and maintaining operations and trading strong cost control.
Our flexibility, reliability and size make us well placed to participate in the Balancing Mechanism real-time balancing of supply and demand and to offer important balancing services to the System Operator, National Grid.
one of our key priorities: maintain operationaL eXceLLence Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 11 increasing efficiency and reducing co2 on track we are now over two-thirds of the way through our turbine upgrade project, which is on track for completion in 2012. when complete the project will increase our overall efficiency by 5% taking it to 40% and with that deliver a reduction in CO2 emissions of 1.0 million tonnes a year.
one of our key priorities: DeLiVer carBon aBatement Carbon abatement Carbon abatement remains central to Upgrading 24 turbines The project will see each of our high pressure and our strategy.
Our turbine upgrade project low pressure turbine modules upgraded.
In total, is now more than two-thirds complete, that amounts to six high pressure turbines and on track for conclusion in 2012. and 18 low pressure turbines.
The new modules are operating as expected, which means we are comfortably operating at an overall efficiency across the power station of above 39%.
The resultant saving in emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 amounts to over half a million tonnes a year.
In the Summer, we commissioned our new biomass co-firing facility which gives us the capability to produce one-eighth of our power from sustainable biomass, equivalent to the output of over 700 wind turbines.
when running at full capacity, a saving of over 2.5 million tonnes of CO 2 will be possible each year.
In 2010, our biomass burn reached the record level of 907,000 tonnes, over double that of the year before.
As a result, we estimate that Drax Power Station generated 7% of the uKs renewable power in 2010, which is more than twice as much as any other facility in the uK.
This was despite not utilising our co-firing capability to the full because of insufficient regulatory support for biomass.
More recently in February 2011, we, in reducing co2 through biomass Our newly commissioned biomass co-firing facility, conjunction with Alstom uK Limited and alongside our existing co-firing capacity, gives us National Grid Carbon Limited, lodged an the capability to reduce our emissions of CO2 by application for European funding for a over 2.5 million tonnes a year.
we are well placed new, stand-alone 426Mw oxy-fired carbon to increase the level of biomass we burn still further, but we require an appropriate level capture and storage demonstration project of regulatory support.
based at the Drax Power Station site.
Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 12 BuSINESS REvIEw chieF eXecUtiVes statement Progressing our biomass operations It has become increasingly clear to us that biomass could and should play a far greater role in helping to meet the uKs challenging carbon reduction and renewables targets.
Generating electricity from biomass is a relatively low cost renewable technology, which we believe has an important role to play in delivering these targets in a cost effective way for consumers.
Further, as we move towards an energy mix with increasing penetration of intermittent generation capacity, the case for reliable and flexible renewable generation capacity becomes ever stronger.
establishing the supply chain logistics Through our work at the power station we have worked with key partners throughout on biomass co-firing and our development the year to establish critical logistics components in the biomass supply chain.
Bespoke rail work on dedicated biomass plants we are wagons to transport biomass and the biomass ready to expand our biomass operations.
handling, storage and rail loading facility at the Critical components of this work and of Port of Tyne were commissioned during the second half of 2010. delivering a biomass future for the Group are establishing the biomass supply chain logistics and procuring sustainable biomass against our robust sustainability policy.
we made good progress on both these fronts during 2010. one of our key priorities: DeVeLop oUr Biomass operations planning expansion through new build Project economics for our proposed dedicated biomass plants are dependent on attracting an appropriate level of regulatory support.
we will continue to work with our partner, Siemens Project ventures, to progress these developments where possible in the absence of regulatory clarity.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 13 securing sustainable supplies Our biomass procurement programme is underpinned by a field to furnace service, offering support and advice every step of the way.
All our contracts ensure that our biomass supplies are sustainable and through independent audit we are able to confirm each suppliers compliance with our robust sustainability policy.
securing domestic supplies Our 100,000 tonnes per annum straw pellet plant is an example of the investment we have made in the biomass supply chain.
The ability to process straw has created a new market for local farmers and helped to secure domestic supplies of biomass.
expanding our on-site capability In Summer 2010, we commissioned our new biomass co-firing facility to time and in line with budget.
we now have the capability to produce one-eighth of our power from renewable and sustainable biomass.
The full utilisation of our facility is dependent on receiving an appropriate level of regulatory support.
Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 14 BuSINESS REvIEw chieF eXecUtiVes statement engaging with UK parliament During 2010, a series of consultation papers and policy statements were issued by the Government giving a blueprint for regulatory change in the electricity sector.
we had significant engagement with Parliament and officials throughout the year and this will continue as the regulatory reform agenda takes shape.
During 2010, the Government developed we are pleased that the Government Regulatory outlook and consulted on sustainability standards recognises the need for reform of the The year saw a series of consultation for biomass used in the generation of electricity market through the introduction exercises and policy statements lay out the electricity.
As a proponent of sustainability of a capacity mechanism, but believe that Governments intentions for regulatory standards for biomass, we were delighted the specific proposals are too narrow to change.
The three areas of greatest with the Governments announcement in provide the desired security of supply.
importance to us are the review of December that it will mandate compliance we are particularly concerned that the existing renewable generation support with a standard.
Electricity generation Governments lead proposal does not arrangements, electricity market reform from biomass has many important address the importance of flexibility and Eu agreement on measures under benefits, including that it can be to security of supply.
Our own sustainability policy, The proposals for carbon price support introduced in 2008, not only commits us In December, the Government committed are, we believe, unnecessary.
There is to achieving reductions in greenhouse gas to a faster review of support for potential for conflict with the existing emissions, but to doing so while satisfying renewables.
we have long advocated the Eu Emissions Trading Scheme Eu ETS economic and social considerations.
need for regulatory certainty in gaining and given the cap and trade nature of the investor confidence and securing Following the publication of proposals Eu ETS, the floor price will have no impact investment.
The timetable for clarity by the Government in December, on overall CO2 emissions, since any of the new support levels for renewable consultations on a package of measures reduction in the uKs emissions will simply technologies to be implemented from to reform the electricity market are now result in higher emissions elsewhere in the April 2013 has been brought forward underway.
The measures represent the Eu.
we also believe that the introduction by around 12 months.
This is a welcome single biggest change to the electricity of a floor price which supports specific move and is necessary to facilitate timely sector in two decades, and whereas the technologies would, in all likelihood, investment decisions.
proposals are challenging for coal they do distort the wholesale market.
reinforce our commitment to electricity Although the Governments position on Finally, on the Industrial Emissions generation from biomass.
burning biomass in existing coal-fired Directive, we now have a greater power plants is still evolving, we are Proposals to change the support mechanism understanding of the window within which encouraged that consideration is being for renewables and the introduction of a compliance with more stringent emissions given to introducing support for increased capacity mechanism and carbon floor price standards must be met.
we are working on biomass burn at fossil fuel power stations.
are included in the package.
the options available to us for compliance, For example, through new bands for both but with expected fuel mix integral to we are supportive of the Governments higher levels of biomass co-firing and full optimising the solution for Drax, the proposal to reform the support for conversion to biomass.
we stand ready to appropriate level of support for biomass renewables through the introduction of a increase our biomass burn to much higher is again on the critical path.
we believe that the proposals levels, but will only do so with the will create a more level playing field for appropriate level of support.
investment in renewables by new entrants and independents like Drax.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 15 Looking ahead Commodity markets remain challenging for all fossil fuel generators.
we enter 2011 with support from forward power sales of 18Twh, a significant portion of which were executed on more attractive terms than we could capture in todays market.
we intend one of our key priorities: to work hard to continue to deliver leading operating and cost performance and to inFLUence retain our focus on building options to burn economically advantageous fuel.
However, markets recognise that profitability is likely the reGULatory to be lower in 2011, unless there is a significant improvement in spreads.
FrameWorK with a commitment to delivering value to our shareholders, we will continue our dialogue with the Government as regulatory reform takes shape.
we believe that positive progress on the reform agenda is central to our success.
with the right policy framework and support for electricity generation from biomass, we stand ready to make a significant, timely and cost effective contribution to reducing carbon emissions, whilst retaining reliable and flexible capacity on the system.
we will continue our research and development work around increasing actively involved in europe the level of biomass burnt at Drax Power A significant amount of legislation with potential Station, both through exploring higher implications for our business emanates from the levels of co-firing and full unit conversion.
we are actively involved Our work will be focused on design and in influencing Eu legislation through our own representations and those of our trade costing solutions for logistics, storage, associations and uK Government itself.
we will also continue working with Siemens Project ventures to progress our dedicated biomass developments, but in each case, further significant investment is dependent upon appropriate regulatory support.
we see biomass as a critical component to resolving the energy policy trilemma of tackling climate change sustainably, affordably and without jeopardising security of supply.
Through significantly expanding our biomass burn, Drax can continue to be as reliable, flexible and cost effective as it is today well into the future but, importantly, as a low carbon business.
Dorothy thompson Chief Executive 21 February 2011
