BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review I am pleased to announce that in 2009 10 OPERATING REVIEW adjusted operating profit at 94.0 million Our two activities, Packaging and Office matched that of the previous year.
All our business Products Wholesaling, are managed through segments felt the impact of lower demand for their a decentralised structure.
products and services as a result of the general contraction in economic activity, but all were able PACKAGING to mitigate this by improving efficiency.
The Group Across Europe, demand for corrugated packaging remained highly cash generative, reflecting our fell progressively through most of calendar 2009, ongoing focus on cash management.
year-end but began to recover modestly late in the year.
net debt fell to 239.5 million 30 April 2009: This recovery continued in the first quarter of 291.5 million providing a robust financial 2010.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, demand base for the Group.
was up 2.9% compared with the same period in 2008, but was still 5.7% below the comparable Profit before exceptional items and tax was period for 2007.
demand in the fast-moving consumer goods As previously advised, the Group incurred FmCG sector held up better than in the industrial exceptional charges in the year of 13.3 million sectors.
DS Smith has benefited from actions taken 2008 09: 55.7 million, of which 10.2 million The Group is well in recent years to focus on the FmCG area of the were non-cash impairment charges, principally market, which now accounts for around two-thirds positioned to take related to our paper and packaging operation in Turkey, the sale of which was announced after of our Packaging revenue.
full advantage of the the year end.
In the first half of the financial year, lower demand improving economy.
Capital expenditure in the year of 52.6 million for corrugated packaging caused box prices to 2008 09: 87.4 million reflected the re-phasing soften, and resulted in reduced demand and of the capital programme to match the change in falling prices for corrugated case material CCm the economic environment and the completion of the paper that is used to manufacture boxes.
capital expenditure on the conversion of a paper In the second half of the year, the cost of waste machine in 2008 09.
The Group continued to paper our key raw material rose strongly, invest for its future development: around two-thirds causing CCm prices and, in turn, box prices of our expenditure was targeted at growth to increase.
and maintaining and strengthening our market Profits in our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging positions, focusing on those areas that provide operations almost matched those of the previous the most attractive returns.
year, helped by the cost reductions achieved The Groups adjusted return on average capital through the action programme announced in employed increased in 2009 10 to 9.7% December 2008 and better productivity.
Results in our Continental European Corrugated This compares to the Groups estimated pre-tax Packaging segment were down: gains in FmCG weighted average cost of capital of 11.8%.
packaging were more than offset by the Looking ahead, we are undertaking a review of continuing low activity levels in the industrial our business portfolio to identify how long-term packaging sector and the impact of higher value can best be delivered to shareholders.
Our objective is to create a growing business that Profits in Plastic Packaging improved markedly is more focused, producing higher margins and returns, with less cyclicality.
This work is now as a result of restructuring undertaken during 2008 09, implementation of the action under way and is centred on five major themes: programme to cut costs and growth in sales Achieving higher margins through improving of higher margin products.
the mix of business towards products with a higher value-added component and less UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging commoditisation: In 2009 10, the UK Paper and Corrugated Differentiating our offering through product Packaging segment, which accounted for 36% innovation and customer service: of Group revenue and 55% of Group average capital employed, reported a 4.5% decrease Raising efficiency through process design, in revenue to 750.2 million 2008 09: organisation structure and scale of our 785.8 million.
This reduction in revenue was operations: due to lower CCm and box prices, the effects of Building on people, with focus on personal which were partly offset by revenue from a full performance and development supported years sales of lightweight CCm produced on by an enabling culture: and the converted paper machine at Kemsley.
Operating profit was slightly down at managing carefully any implementation risks.
35.4 million 2008 09: 36.5 million, The results of this work will be completed later primarily due to reduced box sales mitigated in 2010. by the restructured, lower cost base.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G Our UK business is vertically integrated, from Rubezhansk, our Ukrainian associate business OFFICE PRODUCTS WhOLESALING collection of waste paper to supply the recycled continues to trade profitably and to generate Overall revenue increased by 1.8% to paper mills, through to the design and supply of cash.
This is a substantial,  733.7 million 2008 09: 720.5 million, corrugated packaging.
packaging business with a market-leading reflecting lower volumes which were more than position, supplying the FmCG customers offset by the effect of the depreciation of sterling Severnside Recycling, which recovers waste principally in Ukraine and Russia.
The business against the euro.
The trading environment was paper as the raw material for use in our paper has excellent long-term potential.
As noted in the better than expected given the substantial mills, continued to make progress, collecting an Financial Review, we are continuing to work with economic slow-down in the major markets we increased quantity of paper and offering more our partner and the lending banks to resolve the serve.
An increase in sales of electronic office added-value services to a number of new position in relation to the external financing of supplies EOS, was partly offset by lower sales retail customers.
Our UK paper business was significantly affected In 2010 11, we expect margins to come under In Spicers UK, revenue fell marginally.
Non-EOS by the impacts of lower demand and pricing for increased pressure from higher input costs, but sales declined for the first three quarters of the CCm during 2009 10. margins were further put we expect to benefit from higher sales volumes.
year then began to recover in the final quarter.
under pressure by the rising cost of raw materials, Our priorities are to maintain good levels of EOS sales grew modestly.
Operating profit was especially in the second half of the year.
The highprofitability through increased selling prices, higher than last year, benefiting from actions to quality, lightweight CCm which we have been volume growth and control of costs.
cut costs and improve the sales mix.
producing at Kemsley since early 2009 continues to be favourably received by customers.
In the continental European businesses, which Plastic Packaging account for just over half of Spicers total revenue, Our UK corrugated packaging business produced Revenue in Plastic Packaging decreased profit was flat.
Operating results in France, a good result and grew its market share on a by 2.4% over the year to 231.3 million Germany and the Benelux region matched or platform of service and innovation.
Our emphasis 2008 09: 236.9 million due to lower selling exceeded last year and Italy put in a strong on the FmCG sector and higher value-added prices, following reduction in polymer costs, performance.
Trading was difficult in Ireland and products assisted our performance significantly, and our exit from a lower margin packaging Spain where, in both countries, the economic when compared to the UK corrugated industry management contract in continental Europe.
downturn has had a significant effect.
Key investments have been made to Adjusted operating profit more than doubled increase our capability to support the growth in to 15.5 million 2008 09: 7.0 million as a In 2010 11, we will focus on improving our demand for shelf-ready packaging, improve print result of lower costs following the prior years overall sales, primarily in traditional office quality innovation and continue the roll out of restructuring actions and increased sales into products, and on tight cost control.
We believe high-performance, lighter-weight boxes.
that Spicers is well placed to take advantage of improving economic conditions, due to its strong As we enter 2010 11, we are experiencing Results in liquid packaging and dispensing market positions.
modest improvements in demand offset by benefited from higher sales, particularly into new increasing waste paper input costs and CCm markets in the USA.
Results in Europe increased OUR PEOPLE prices.
We will build on the strong market substantially, reflecting the restructuring and cost I have been hugely impressed by the dedication positions achieved to date and are well cutting previously mentioned, as well as higher and commitment of the employees of DS Smith positioned for growth.
sales of existing products into new markets and during my early visits to the businesses.
It is clear our focus on improving the business mix.
that we have skilful, enthusiastic and creative Continental European Corrugated Packaging Demand in the returnable transit packaging sector people who have worked hard to support the Despite an increase in sales volumes, driven continued to be weak.
Sales to the construction Company through recent difficult times.
I thank by the encouraging performance in the final and automotive sectors, which fell sharply them for all they have done to date and look quarter of the year, revenue was down 2.2% to during 2008 09, have seen no real recovery.
forward to working with them in the future.
355.4 million 2008 09: 363.4 million due Our beverage crate business, which was to lower selling prices.
Operating profit decreased significantly affected by the deferral of crate OUTLOOK to 22.9 million 2008 09: 30.4 million, as a replacement programmes, has seen a modest Trading in the current financial year has started result of increasing CCm costs, the effect of which increase in demand as customers have begun well and is in line with our expectations.
We are was partially offset by a significant reduction in to purchase some replacements.
This business experiencing increasing sales volumes due to the conversion costs.
increased its profits in the year as a result of continuing recovery in market conditions.
We are In France, our corrugated box business showed a active management of conversion costs, low also benefiting from the success of our service and raw material prices in the first half of the year 2% increase in sales volume, despite a flat market, product offering.
as a result of its focus on the resilient and growing and development of products in all of the constituent businesses.
Despite difficult market conditions, our Italian business performed well primarily as In January 2010, we completed the sale of Demes a result of its strong position in the FmCG sector.
Logistics, a small plastics logistics business based Our Polish operation continued to focus on mainly in Germany.
The business had gross assets higher added-value products, gaining share in of 11.2 million.
MILES ROBERTS a broadly static market.
market conditions in Group Chief Executive Turkey remained difficult and after the year In 2010 11, we expect to build further on end, we announced the sale of the business for the strong recovery in liquid packaging and 4.7 million.
dispensing and to see growth in demand for RTPs products.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 17
