Dunelm Group plc 6 Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review Chief Executives review Trading Priority 2 further develop our specialist Business highlights I am delighted to report further position outstanding growth during the last We know that it is essential for us to keep 8.0% increase in like-forfinancial year.
Our overall sales increased evolving our retail proposition.
We remain like sales by 18.2% compared with the equivalent as passionate as ever about giving Simply 52 week period in the prior year.
Like-forValue for Money to all our customers a Exciting developments in like sales were extremely strong in the combination of good quality products at our customer offer first half and the momentum carried great prices, industry-leading choice, through to a full year increase of 8.0% deep availability and friendly service.
10 new superstore openings again on a 52 week basis significantly in FY10 beating the overall homewares market.
Recent developments in our offer include the following: 9 major refits of existing We have delivered these results by Dorma.
We continue to roll out stores in FY10 retaining a sharp focus on the four dedicated Dorma centres which are priorities which continue to form our now represented in 32 stores.
We have Strong growth in Dunelm growth strategy.
extended the range of products sold Direct under the Dorma brand to include Priority 1 open more superstores bathroom, gift and tableware lines.
Continuing investment in We opened 10 new superstores in the Window treatments Dunelm At Home.
infrastructure year, adding over 300,000 square feet of We developed some time ago a more selling space.
As at the year-end, our integrated and space-efficient way of superstore chain comprised 94 stores merchandising products relating to including two stores previously treated windows curtains, blinds, tracks and as high street shops with 2.8m square poles, fabrics, nets and voiles.
This feet of selling space.
execution of the offer is now present in 26 stores.
In addition, we now We have opened two further stores since supplement our in-store offer with a the year-end in Milton Keynes and Torquay free home consultation service, and we are contractually committed branded Dunelm At Home, which to nine more units which are due to allows customers to select from our open in the current financial year, one range of window treatments with the being a relocation of an existing underhelp of an advisor in their own homes.
This service is currently provided from 30 stores.
Our recent openings have all traded well.
We have completed a Our target is for new stores to pay back full review of our furniture ranges, their ingoing investment within 36 and created an extended furniture months on a discounted cash flow basis, department in several of our but we have consistently beaten this.
The actual payback period for the last Kitchen.
We have created a radically 30 openings is expected to be around different version of our traditional 26 months on average.
The new concept divides the offer between cooking, Taking confidence from the performance dining and utility and offers much of both new stores and the existing deeper ranges in each of these areas, chain, we have increased our target for supported by new display methods and national coverage in the UK from 150 to greater space allocation.
has been introduced to 15 stores to date.
Dunelm Group plc 7 Annual report and accounts 2010 Priority 2 Further develop our specialist position Dorma centres in store Roll-out of window treatment departments Development of Dunelm At Home Extended furniture department in larger stores Extended kitchen ranges Miss It Miss Out promotions These special deals further add to the variety and interest in our stores.
Dunelm Group plc 8 Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review Chief Executives statement continued Miss It Miss Out.
We have evolved our Priority 4 develop and exploit our energy to become our next Chief use of Miss It Miss Out campaigns to infrastructure Executive.
He is a great addition to the signpost great customer deals, and we We continue to extract further benefits Dunelm team and I very much look are increasingly using this mechanism from our IT systems, enabling us to forward to working with him.
to clear discontinued lines outside of improve stock control and make in-store our traditional sale periods.
This further processes more efficient.
I have been privileged to run Dunelm over adds to the variety and interest of our the last 15 years and I feel invigorated in-store offer.
We have doubled the space available to us by my forthcoming new role which will at our Stoke warehouse, to 500,000 allow me to spend much more time on We have continued investing to improve square feet.
Assuming that the proportion the areas where I believe that I can add the shopping environment in our older of merchandise distributed via Stoke the most value.
We completed nine major refits in remains constant, this will give us the the last financial year 2009 six.
The capacity to support growth in our store As the Groups largest shareholders, my total cost of a refit including the impact of estate for the foreseeable future.
family remain totally committed, both sales disruption is typically around 0.8m emotionally and financially, to Dunelm per store: this includes any expenditure To support our continuing growth, we for the long-term and we are as excited necessary to maintain the fabric of the have acquired a plot of freehold land for a as ever about the next phase of its building.
Sales uplifts in refitted stores new head office near to our existing base development which will take place under have run approximately 10% ahead of in Syston, Leicester.
Construction of a new Nicks leadership.
We are convinced that trend.
Going forward we plan to continue building is under way and we expect to these changes will underpin the long-term investing judiciously in major refits whilst relocate in mid-2011.
development and success of the Group.
also taking opportunities to refresh stores through smaller interventions.
Current trading Will Adderley We are clearly operating in challenging Chief Executive Priority 3 grow Dunelm Direct economic conditions, and we expect 16 September 2010 During the last financial year we to see continuing pressure on successfully implemented a new software consumer spending.
platform for our on-line business www.
Despite this backdrop, we are confident This has enabled us to offer a much that Dunelm will demonstrate resilience, improved experience for on-line visitors as benefiting from our focus on continuing to well as giving customers the option of deliver Simply Value for Money and our collecting on-line purchases in store.
low average transaction values, and that the business will continue to grow and to At launch of the new platform we were strengthen its position in the UK able to offer approximately 7,000 lines for homewares market.
sale: this number has now doubled.
Performance in the early weeks of our new We continue to invest in this channel, with financial year has been pleasing, given regular enhancements to functionality strong performance in the comparative and further expansion and strengthening period last year.
of the Dunelm Direct team.
Board change As a result of this focus, we continue to see As our Chairman explains in his statement, strong growth in on-line sales.
Dunelm I will shortly be handing over my Direct is now consistently ranked amongst responsibilities as Chief Executive to Nick our top 10 stores in sales terms and we Wharton, allowing me to take on the new are confident that further growth will role of Executive Deputy Chairman.
I am delighted that we have been able to attract somebody with Nicks talent and Dunelm Group plc 9 Annual report and accounts 2010 Priority 3 Grow Dunelm Direct New technology platform launched September 2009 14,000 products available Collect in-store service Rapid growth Continuing enhancements
