easyJet plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2010 B usiness review C hief Executives statement Our people make a difference I have been truly impressed by easyJets people.
Our front line cabin crew and pilots are highly trained and committed.
Their warmth and focus on passenger care helps create a connection with our customers which makes us a more popular and successful airline and they need to be recognised for this.
Our engineering, management and administration teams are equally important to the success of the business and Id like to thank the whole team at easyJet for their commitment and hard work over what has been a very tough year in the airline industry.
Taking a fresh look at the business Over the past couple of months the senior management team has conducted an end to end review of the business.
We have examined all of the assumptions that underline our business plan.
We have looked carefully at the broader market in which we operate and the trends that will challenge us and provide us with opportunities.
Carolyn McCall obe Chief Executive Our conclusion is that the business model and strategy is delivering for customers and shareholders.
We have a unique network which will enable us to expand in Europe as our routes and low fares The leading positions that easyJet are attractive to customers.
has built at primary airports gives Market place review easyJet the platform for future We see clear opportunities for easyJet to continue to take market share expansion in Europe.
as charter traffic continues to decline, as weaker short-haul carriers retrench or fail and as new infrastructure capacity comes on stream.
Lowcost carrier penetration across Europe is expected to increase as several major markets including France, Switzerland, Italy, Netherlands Introduction and Portugal see the penetration of low cost carrier traffic increase to This is my first Chief Executives review at easyJet and I am proud to be around 50% in line with that now seen in the UK and Spain.
leading a company that has achieved so much in the past 15 years.
Passenger growth in the European short-haul market is expected to easyJet was born out of the liberalisation of European aviation by continue at between 3% and 4% per annum, with the majority of the 'OpenSkies'.
It has been a true industry innovator pioneering the use growth in point to point business and leisure travel.
ofthe web and low cost air travel centred around a transparent pricing model.
Post 9 11, easyJet took bold strategic moves that have been the Around 200 carriers currently compete in the European short-haul foundation of the Companys present day success including the initial aviation market and the top five players, including easyJet, account for entry into primary airports such as London Gatwick.
Over the past five around 60% of seats flown with the rest of the market being highly years, easyJet has grown from a UK centric airline to develop a significant fragmented.
The average growth of the market over the past 20 years presence in mainland Europe built around valuable positions at slot orso has been 4.5% per annum.
In the past year, overall capacity in the constrained airports.
European short-haul market grew by 4.2%.
The strength of easyJets business model, which is centred around easyJet is the only pan European short-haul carrier with a significant offering low fares to convenient airports, is reflected in the performance position in major airports and operates the leading network in European of the past year.
easyJet has delivered a robust financial result against short-haul aviation measured by presence on the top 100 routes.
Reported pre-tax profit grew by 99.3 million to Ournetwork not only ensures that easyJet is well positioned to capture 154.0 million driven by a strong revenue performance as total revenue leisure traffic but also will enable easyJet to continue to build its share grew by 11.5% to 2,973.1 million.
Return on equity grew by 3.1 ofthe 18 billion per annum European short-haul air travel market.
easyJet also generated significant positive Whilst we anticipate that the European short-haul market will continue cashflows in the period with cash and money market deposits at to grow, the industry is clearly cyclical and profitable opportunities for 30 September 2010 totalling 1,171.9 million 30 September 2009: expansion will not be linear.
Therefore flexibility in fleet planning will be 1,074.9 million.
key in order to seize strategic opportunities when they emerge whilst Since I joined the Company in July, my priorities have been to spend not putting excess capacity into uneconomic markets.
Consequently, asmuch time as possible out in the network with our people to easyJet has built flexibility into its fleet planning arrangements that understand their perspective on the business: the mitigation of the meansthat its growth rate in terms of seats flown can be flexible and operational issues experienced in July: resolution of the Brand Licence dependant on the opportunities available and economic conditions.
dispute: and importantly, taking a fresh look at the business to assess theopportunities available to it, in conjunction with a review of easyJets capital structure to ensure easyJet has the financial resources necessary to support its future plans.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 09 Business model and vision Disruption easyJets vision is to Turn Europe Orange.
This will be achieved by: easyJets results this year reflect the high levels of disruption from snow, volcanic ash, ATC strike action and easyJets own operational difficulties.
Ensuring no compromise on safety: The combination of these events led to incremental costs of 97.9 million versus the prior year.
Giving our customers low fares to convenient airports at convenient times of the day combined with helpful and friendly service that is During December 2009 and January 2010, Europe experienced reliable and punctual: exceptional snowfall causing the closure of many airports.
Despite this easyJet managed to fly 90% of its programme during the affected period.
Smart cost management so we can continue to offer Nonetheless, the impact of this disruption on our customers and people competitivefares: was significant.
easyJet incurred 20.8 million of additional costs associated Attracting talented people to easyJet and keeping them with us with this disruption and the pre-tax result, including lost contribution, because easyJet is an enjoyable and challenging place to work: and inthe first half of the year was adversely impacted by 25 million.
Delivering a good return to shareholders by focusing on improving The disruption to European airspace due to the Eyjafjalla volcano in margins to achieve a profit per seat of 5.
easyJet was forced to cancel 7,314 flights, disrupting 960,000 passengers.
The lost contribution and additional cost easyJet has a number of opportunities to drive margin improvement: as a result of this event were 30 million and 27.3 million respectively.
To grow fares through continued network optimisation and driving easyJet gave priority to supporting its customers affected by the volcanic the business traveller proposition harder: ash disruption and was able to repatriate approximately 200,000 To grow ancillary revenues through both yield management of fees stranded passengers within five days by implementing the following and charges and partner and in-flight revenues through better special measures: execution and innovation such as easyJet Holidays: and Operating effectively a full flying programme as soon as the Smart cost management by reducing complexity and disruption costs skiesreopened: in the business and continuing to drive procurement initiatives in Operating special rescue flights to hot spot areas where many airports, ground handling and maintenance.
These flights were operated with additional aircraft leased at easyJets expense: Capital structure review It is vital that easyJet has the financial resources in place to support Prioritising stranded passengers over new sales.
easyJet suspended itsexpansion plans and to ensure it can withstand external shocks.
sales on many routes to give priority to our repatriation efforts: and Consequently, we have performed a rigorous review of the balance Allowing customers to fly on stand-by.
easyJet set up stand-by desks sheet including modelling downside scenarios such as extreme fuel prices in airports to try to help stranded passengers get on the next to ensure that we have the appropriate capital structure going forward.
We will continue with a conservative policy including a liquidity target of 4 million cash per aircraft, a leverage cap of 10 million adjusted gross debt per aircraft and a 50% limit on net gearing.
easyJet is highly cash generative and will continue to be as the business grows and improves its margins.
easyJet has also been able to access financing for its aircraft at attractive rates.
Consequently, the Board isconfident that easyJet has the ability to maintain a conservative balancesheet whilst funding growth and a regular formulaic return toshareholders.
We therefore intend to commence the payment of anannual dividend based on a dividend cover of five times.
The first dividend will be payable in 2012 in respect of the year ending 30September 2011.
Return on equity ROE has been an important target for easyJet.
We continue to target improvement in ROE however, with the introduction of a dividend policy and the belief that easyJet needs to maintain a strong balance sheet, the Board is of the view that Return on capital employed ROCE is a more relevant target.
Our aim will be to achieve an average post tax ROCE of 12% through the cycle.
200,000 Prioritising stranded passengers easyJet repatriated around 200,000 passengers within five days during the volcanic ash disruption.
easyJet plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2010 C hief Executives statement continued Over the summer, easyJet experienced operational difficulties, including Revenue a high level of cancellations and poor on time performance OTP.
Total revenue per seat was 53.07 in the year, an increase of 3.3% at Following a thorough review, it is clear that the root cause of these constant currency: a good performance against a difficult backdrop and operational problems was that easyJet did not have the right number of strong comparators driven by the strength of easyJets network, good crew in the right locations at the right times.
High levels of ATC industrial route management and growth in ancillary revenues.
action across Europe further exacerbated the problems.
Focused network development When the extent of the problems came to light, easyJet swiftly put easyJets unique differentiator is its network, with a leading presence on inplace a series of mitigating actions including sub-chartering aircraft.
the top 100 routes in Europe and positions at primary airports that are Throughout this period our priority was ensuring no compromises attractive to time sensitive consumers.
Additionally, 53% of easyJets onsafety and seeking to minimise the impact of these issues on our passengers now originate from outside the UK, an increase of passengers.
Subsequently, we have seen an improvement in OTP while 3percentage points compared with the prior year.
the number of cancellations has reduced.
Our objective now is to ensure acceptable levels of OTP return for summer 2011. easyJet has continued to manage the performance of its network bycareful allocation of aircraft to routes and optimisation of its flying Going forward we have implemented a series of measures to ensure schedule.
During the past year, 28 underperforming routes were closed these issues are fundamentally resolved including ensuring realistic and 115 new routes were launched.
easyJet closed its base at East planning assumptions for crew numbers, greater use of flexible rosters, Midlands airport and reallocated the aircraft to bases where it will be amore robust management structure and more effective communication able to drive an improved return.
easyJet now operates 25 A320 aircraft with the crew.
These measures will not incur additional net costs to across the network and this has enabled us both to extend our network easyJet but will deliver savings as disruption costs are reduced.
to longer range destinations such as Israel, Egypt and Turkey and to fly ahigher number of passengers at highly slot congested airports such Brand licence resolution asParis Orly.
On 11 October 2010, we announced a resolution to the ongoing brand licence dispute.
The proposed variations to the brand licence will ensure easyJet continues to focus its efforts on the business travel market through that we have a more workable agreement going forward that allows adding new routes to business destinations, improving frequencies and easyJet to carry out all current commercial activities and innovate increasing the proportion of flights at peak times of the day.
easyJet without restriction within the parameters of the airline and airport continues to see a yield premium of about 20% to 30% from flights environment.
The proposed variations will be the subject of a booked via the GDS and Business API.
shareholder circular that was issued on 16 November 2010.
Overall, easyJets capacity measured in seats flown grew by 6% during the year, with an increase of 16% in mainland Europe with growth Business performance focused on France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland.
easyJets strategy is centred around achieving profitable growth and delivering improved returns.
Therefore, the management team UK continually focuses its efforts on both driving revenue and managing costs.
Margins improved in the period, mainly driven by a unit fuel cost Consolidating UK performance decrease equivalent to 122.7 million, offset by lower interest income The network strategy in the UK is focused around consolidating our of 11.3 million and 97.9 million of additional disruption costs.
position as the UKs leading airline.
Capacity in the UK was flat overall butcareful capacity allocation decisions delivered a good revenue performance across all of our UK bases.
At London Gatwick seats flown grew by 9% and we increased based capacity by a further three aircraft to 42 over the summer following the withdrawal of Aer Lingus from the routes on which they competed directly with easyJet.
Capacity elsewhere in the UK reduced by 6% as easyJet closed its base atEast Midlands in January 2010 and terminated underperforming routes in Luton.
There were good performances at a number of UK regional bases, particularly at Belfast and Edinburgh following competitor retreat.
We continue to invest in our Manchester base with a range of business and leisure routes.
1 Leading the way We have a leading presence at a number of airports across Europe.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 11 Ancillary revenues Ancillary revenues grew in the year by 43 pence per seat to 10.20 despite regulatory changes to the sales process for insurance products 22% which led to a reduction in insurance income of 8 million in the year andchanges in VAT legislation which negatively impacted in-flight income easyJet grows French capacity by 2 million.
There were improved performances in fees and charges We increased capacity in the year by 22% and bag revenue.
against a total market growth of only 1%.
However, hotel and car hire revenues were down versus the prior year.
This performance is disappointing and we are reviewing this area to ensure that we have the correct product offerings to underpin our Mainland Europe growth plans going forward.
Growing our footprint through increased based Smart cost management capacity in Switzerland, France and Italy It is vital that easyJet effectively manages its cost base so that it can In Switzerland three new aircraft were introduced and seats flown continue to offer competitive fares profitably.
However, it is important grew by 12%.
Frequencies were increased on routes such as Geneva to that cost management is sensibly executed and does not lead to London Gatwick, Paris Orly and Barcelona.
An A320 was introduced at sub-optimal decisions such as those made around crewing this year.
Geneva to enable flights to longer range destinations such as Sharm El Sheikh.
easyJet also took advantage of Ryanairs retreat from Basel to Total cost per seat excluding fuel, rose by 5.2% at constant currency to addadditional capacity into the market.
36.15 in the period, principally due to disruption and wet leasing costs.
Excluding the effect of additional disruption, cost per seat rose by 2.2% France is a compelling investment opportunity for easyJet.
Low cost at constant currency to 35.14 as improvements in aircraft ownership carrier penetration is half the European average and easyJet is uniquely and maintenance costs partially offset increased airport and navigation positioned to grow in France due to its decision to put its crew onto local charges.
We are making good progress to be on track to deliver against terms and conditions.
easyJet grew capacity by 22% in France in the year, our 190million savings programme.
against market growth of just 1%.
At Paris Orly, easyJet has added a seventh aircraft and now has ten aircraft deployed at Paris Charles Systems implementation to drive reduced fuel consumption DeGaulle.
At Lyon, a third aircraft has been added as we have taken and improvements in crew efficiency advantage of Air Frances reduced capacity on routes such as Madrid easyJet has maintained the level of fuel burn in the period.
Whilst crew andBarcelona: a fourth aircraft will be added over the winter.
productivity savings were delivered in the year, the way in which these savings were achieved drove substantially more cost in the business as Capacity in Italy increased by 25%, with 16 aircraft now based at Milan we suffered disruption due to crew shortages in part of the network.
Malpensa where easyJet launched eight new routes and increased Consequently, we have decided to stabilise the operation during 2011 frequencies on business routes such as Rome, Madrid, Barcelona and have built more resilience into our crew planning.
costs will be offset by reduced disruption and wet leasing costs.
Growing our footprint through increased inbound flying in Germany and Spain In Germany, easyJet continued to refocus its offering.
We have increased capacity on key business routes out of Berlin such as Brussels, Copenhagen and London Gatwick.
easyJet has also increased its presence in Scandinavia and we now have thirteen routes operating out of the region.
In Madrid, capacity grew by 20% in the period, with eight aircraft now deployed there.
The Spanish market continues to be competitive however both city and beach in-bound routes continue to perform well.
Portugal is an important market for easyJet and we are already its secondlargest airline.
In October, we announced that we are opening abase at Lisbon in winter 2011.
This will enable us to further develop ourbusiness there.
20% Capacity growth in Madrid In Madrid, we have 8 aircraft and increased capacity by 20% in the year.
easyJet plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2010 C hief Executives statement continued We will work with the EU on consumer rules to ensure that they strike the right balance between the benefits that regulation brings to consumers over its costs to the industry.
The strike disruption to air traffic control is due to the wider economic pressures facing 17m Europe and union concerns about the forthcoming Single European Annual maintenance savings Sky programme.
We expect disruption to continue in 2011: we will easyJet expects to make around 17 million of savings per annum press for measures to be put in place that alleviate the impact of following the renegotiation of the SR Technics contract.
these strikes and push for faster reform.
Our increasing focus on primary airports increases the importance of regulated airport charges to the business.
We continue to work Leverage scale and the recession to deliver with airports and regulators to ensure that charges are as low as procurement efficiencies possible and also that charging structures do not discriminate against The renegotiation of our maintenance contract with SR Technics will easyJet.
In the UK, we are active participants in the CAAs work on drive savings of around 17 million per annum.
We have also maintained airport regulation methodologies and competition: we are also our approach of leveraging our scale and buying power to challenge involved in regulation in theNetherlands, France and Belgium.
airports on the charges they levy.
We are now at the initial stages of aviations entry into the EU Emissions Efficient fleet management Trading System ETS : 2010 is a monitoring year ahead of the easyJet continues to make good progress towards its goal of operating requirement in 2012 to have permits to cover emissions.
We support a common aircraft fleet.
Eliminating the Boeing and ex-GB Airways moves towards a global framework for addressing aviations impact on sub-fleets will take cost out of the business and simplify our operations.
However, this must not come at the expense of schemes The intention is to exit all aircraft in the two sub-fleets by 2012 to such as ETS.
These schemes are the right way to address aviations complete the realisation of ownership cost savings of around 30 million environmental obligations.
We also remain concerned about the per annum.
Nine Boeing 737s and three ex-GB Airways A320s were imposition of passenger taxes across Europe, with Germany introducing returned to lessors in the year.
The remaining four ex-GB Airways a 8 passenger tax for European flights.
We can see no rationale for A321s exited the fleet in November 2010. these taxes and where they remain we will continue to argue for their reform of any passenger taxes into environmentally efficient plane taxes, We have benchmarked easyJet cost categories against other low which tax flights rather than passengers.
cost carriers and identified further efficiencies.
We have named this programme easyJet Lean and the 190 million cost savings programme will be folded up into this initiative.
One of our cost saving plans we have Fleet plan already stepped up is to build a greater proportion of A320s into our In the period, easyJet took delivery of eight A320 aircraft and nineteen fleet plan.
There are currently 25 easyJet 180 seat A320s in the fleet and A319 aircraft under the terms of the easyJet Airbus agreement.
our review of their introduction has shown a reduction in cost per seat Configured with 180 seats, the A320 is enabling us to increase our which has led to a significant increase in contribution, although as you capacity at peak times at slot constrained airports.
The aircraft also might expect there is a slight yield decrease.
This is a perfect example operates with a cost per seat that is around 6% lower than the A319.
of how we aim to balance yield and cost to improve margins.
The total fleet at 30 September 2010 comprised 196 aircraft.
A further 45 easyJet specification aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival Regulated costs over the next three years.
The fleet is expected to comprise 220 aircraft A significant proportion of easyJets cost base is determined by by 30 September 2013. governments and regulators and we continue to constructively engage with them on a number of issues that will impact easyJets cost base in easyJet has flexibility in its fleet planning arrangements and thus is able the future.
The closure of European airspace because of volcanic ash to manage the total number of aircraft in the fleet through a combination and the wide scale air traffic control disruption across Europe have of deferrals and lease extensions.
highlighted some of the weaknesses of the current policy framework.
We are supporting efforts to put in place a European framework to deal with future crises.
The volcanic ash disruption also exposed the weaknesses in EU2004 261, which effectively requires airlines to act as insurer of last resort.
25 A320s 196 aircraft 25 A320 aircraft within our fleet A flexible approach to fleet planning We have 25 A320 aircraft within our fleet at 30 September, after taking 27 new aircraft have been delivered in the year and we are delivery of 8 new A320 aircraft in the year.
This aircraft operates with a able to manage our future fleet size through deferrals and cost per seat that is around 6% lower than the A319.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 13 Fleet as at 30 September 2010: Hedging positions easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed by the Future Unexercised Operating Finance Changes in committed purchase Board.
The aim of easyJets hedging policy is to reduce short term 3 4 Owned leases leases Total the year deliveries rights earnings volatility and therefore the Company hedges forward, on a easyJet rolling basis, between 50% and 80% of the next 12 months anticipated A320 requirements and between 20% and 50% of the following 12 months family 122 52 8 182 27 45 88 anticipated requirements.
Details of our current hedging arrangements are set out below: Boeing 737-700 8 8 9 Euro Percentage of anticipated Fuel US dollar surplus requirement hedged requirement requirement sale GB Airways Full year ending A320 30 September 2011 70% 66% 64% family 4 2 6 3 2 Rate $734 MT $1.60 1.10 126 62 8 196 15 47 88 Full year ending Note 3: The 45 future easyJet deliveries and 2 ex-GB Airways deliveries are 30 September 2012 23% 40% 21% anticipated to be delivered over the next three financial years, 25 in 2011, 18 in Rate $802 MT $1.57 1.11 2012 and 4 in 2013.
Note 4: Purchase options and rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and are valid until 2015.
Outlook The total fleet plan over the period to 30 September 2013 is as follows: Capacity measured in seats flown, adjusting for the impact of disruption is expected to increase compared to the prior year by around 8% as easyJet Boeing GB Airways 5 5 A320 family 737-700 A320 family Total aircraft easyJet continues with its strategy of carefully targeting growth.
On a reported basis capacity is expected to be up by 12% for the full year and At 30 September 2010 182 8 6 196 14% in the first half.
The current expectation is that competitor capacity At 30 September 2011 202 2 204 on easyJet routes will be up by low single digits.
At 30 September 2012 214 214 Over 45% of the available first half seats now sold and forward bookings are in line with the prior year.
Total revenue per seat in the first half is At 30 September 2013 218 2 220 expected to be broadly flat on a reported basis at current exchange 6 Note 5: Four ex-GB Airways A321 aircraft exited the fleet in November 2010. rates versus the prior year and slightly up by at constant currency despite a greater proportion of A320 aircraft in the fleet and the impact of increased APD in the UK and its introduction into Germany.
6 Total reported cost per seat excluding fuel at current exchange rates is anticipated to fall by around 4% on an underlying basis, assuming normal levels of disruption.
Improvements in maintenance and ownership costs and a reduction in disruption related costs will offset the impact of planned increases in crew costs as we build more resilience in to theoperation.
The economic outlook in Europe remains uncertain and the continuing level of ATC industrial action is causing disruption to our flying programme and driving additional cost.
However, the strength of the easyJet network combined with its proposition of offering consumers thebest value fares to convenient airports means that easyJet is well positioned for future success.
Note 6: US$1.60, 1.18 and US$788 per metric tonne at noon on 15 November 2010.
70% Hedged against fuel price increases Carolyn McCall obe We have 70% of our anticipated fuel requirement for 2011 hedged using forwards at $734 MT.
