OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION Electrocomponents is the worlds largest high service distributor of electronics and maintenance products.
Two thirds of the Groups sales come from the International markets of Continental Europe, North America and Asia Pacific with one third from the UK.
eCommerce is our single largest channel, representing around 46% of sales at the year end.
The Group continues to concentrate on the following key areas to drive the Groups future performance: Focus on International markets Develop our electronics and maintenance offers Exploit the full potential of eCommerce Leverage our global infrastructure and increase operating margins Maintain UK profitability During the global economic downturn, we have continued to implement our strategy broadening our electronics offer and improving Ian Mason our web functionality.
These initiatives, Group Chief Executive along with the improving macroeconomic environment, supported the return to sales growth in the second half of the year.
We have continued In February 2010 the senior management to implement our team hosted an investor day to outline the strategy broadening Groups strategy and its implementation.
our electronics offer Focus on International markets The Group is the number one high service and improving our distributor in Continental Europe and Asia web functionality Pacific and is the third largest in North America.
The recent strategic focus has been to exploit further our strong market positions and world class infrastructure to deliver improved sales and profit performance.
In Continental Europe we have created a single regional management team with responsibility for directing activities across the countries in a consistent and effective way.
This has enabled pan-European electronics and maintenance marketing campaigns and supplier promotional programmes to be sent to around 500,000 customers across the region.
Our Asia Pacific team is driving further penetration of the rapidly developing China 10 OVERVIEW WWW.
COM CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued market and has focused on building on our services which are designed to help leading market position, scalable infrastructure electronics design engineers to search, and high service to realise the significant design and buy products from RS.
Through its regional include: Component Chooser which allows structure the team is focusing on three areas: our customers to search, compare and select electronics products: a Computer Aided developing business with existing customers Design environment to view products in through its salesforce and product relevance, 3D and RS EDP a platform enabling the acquiring new customers and moving into rapid prototyping and proof of concept of new customer segments.
Allied, our North American business, has Last year, we successfully launched our continued to implement its successful strategy electronics production packaging capability based on local customer relationships facilitated across the UK, Continental Europe and Asia by its extensive network of sales offices, Pacific.
We have added further products strong supplier engagement programmes and during the year and the range has been developing eCommerce offer.
During the year, expanded to over 65,000 components Allieds eCommerce sales grew by 77% and leading to significant sales growth for by the end of the year accounted for 32% the year.
The Group has a leading position in the large Develop our electronics and and fragmented maintenance market globally maintenance offers and we have significant opportunities for The Group already has a strong presence in growth.
Our maintenance strategy is to the very large and rapidly growing electronics strengthen this leadership position by market with around 40% of the Groups focusing on customers and technologies sales being electronics products.
Through where we have competitive advantage, the implementation of our common global supplier partnerships, RS branded products electronics strategy, we are further and new eCommerce solutions.
An ongoing strengthening this position.
Electronics action supporting our strategy was the was the best performing product category, introduction of 8,000 new maintenance by sales, in the Group.
We expanded our electronics range Large customers have been targeted and in significantly across Continental Europe, the year we won 16 large customer accounts the UK and Asia Pacific introducing 41,000 across Continental Europe.
Of these, five new products from major brand suppliers, were on a pan-European basis leveraging the including Microchip, Osram, Molex, Agilent Groups extensive market presence in the and Tyco Electronics, building upon the region.
We have also increased our business 10,000 new products introduced in the with existing customers as our successful UK previous year.
These ranges are focused large customer compliance programme has on leading edge technologies including solid been rolled out across Continental Europe.
state lighting, solar power and thermal We have increased our engagement with management as well as semiconductors.
With SMC, The performance of our semiconductor range the worlds leading pneumatics manufacturer, has been particularly strong with around we have expanded the product range and 18% sales growth in the UK and Continental developed a number of joint eCommerce Europe with higher sales growth in Japan activities including search engine marketing.
in the second half of the year.
We have also started a programme that will We have recently developed and introduced see SMC transfer a number of its directly a number of new and innovative web based serviced customers to RS in the UK.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 11 The increased importance of RS branded products is another initiative which provides lower cost products with recognised high quality to our customers.
These currently comprise around 35,000 products and around 15% of the Groups global sales at attractive gross margins.
As new product technologies develop, we will add to RS branded products through our established global network of suppliers.
RS has already achieved this with the introduction of a range of energy efficient LED lamps whose market leading specification and competitive pricing has seen sales exceeding that of the branded manufacturer.
eCommerce is a further driver to support our maintenance strategy where we continue to evolve our service offer.
A recent example was the first market launch of a global eCommerce site accessed by mobile phone which has proved successful, growing in popularity with more than 160,000 customer visits per month.
The maintenance and electronics offers are sold to the same customers through a common infrastructure, creating significant synergies across the business.
Exploit the full potential of eCommerce The eCommerce channel is increasingly central to delivering the Groups strategy and now represents around 46% of total sales and is growing rapidly.
The Group recently raised its longer term target for eCommerce revenue share to 70%.
eCommerce provides our customers with an improved service offer through the provision of more tailored information and marketing programmes, the rapid introduction of new products, provision of a wider product range and benefits from deepening our supplier relationships.
It also allows the business to reduce offline costs.
The Group has a well developed eCommerce infrastructure with a single website platform across the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific businesses.
These websites have real time links to the businesses transaction systems providing our customers with online stock information and weekly content updates.
COM CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Our eCommerce strategy aims to improve Group eCommerce revenue grew by 15% in Developing new incremental regular our customers end to end journey.
This the year and its share of revenue increased revenue streams including corporate starts at awareness when customers from 36% to 43%, year on year and exited at accounts and larger orders orders research a product, to product selection and 46%.
The UK and Continental Europe regions over 1,000 then relationship management which allows both ended the year with eCommerce shares Continuing to manage gross margin, cost customers to manage their contact with the in excess of 50%.
and cash effectively business online.
A number of actions have Leverage our global infrastructure been taken this year including increasing paid In the year, the UK has made progress in and increase operating margins search engine marketing, which has implementing this strategy with nine new We have a global infrastructure including an contributed to an increase of 18% in sessions large account wins, above market electronics RS eCommerce platform, integrated regional on the RS site, improved search functionality performance, 7% eCommerce growth, large systems, centralised purchasing and supplier on the RS website which has increased order sales growth and 8% cost reductions.
management, and global inventory, logistics The UK business returned to sales growth in customer satisfaction, and the introduction of and supply chain.
the second half of the year and grew by 9% further enhancements to the my account In light of the sales downturn in 2009 actions in the fourth quarter.
The RS my account now has were taken, principally in the final quarter 130,000 unique visitors per month.
of the previous financial year, with a target The quote redemption tool and improved to achieve annualised cost savings of 18m.
functionality introduced during the year, allow These included a net reduction of around our customers to access and transact quotes 500 employees, representing around 8% online.
This has been further enhanced with of our workforce, as well as other significant the ability for customers to submit quote measures including process optimisation Ian Mason requests and automated product matching between the UK and Continental Europe Group Chief Executive currently being implemented across Europe.
Logistics activity was This market leading offer has proved successfully redistributed between our successful with our customers, delivering two UK warehouses and we also benefited significant sales growth.
from recent freight tenders and further catalogue cost efficiencies.
eCommerce also supported growth in our larger customers through the implementation In the year this cost reduction programme of eProcurement solutions.
During the year was the principal reason for the reduction in we also established an Innovation function operating costs by around 5% at constant focusing on eCommerce opportunities, with foreign exchange rates.
The accelerated the first concept to be delivered to our local implementation of these actions has meant market in France being an iPhone application.
that the full cost saving target of 18m has This uses an image based search allowing been achieved in 2010.
At the same time we engineers to send a picture of a component continued to invest in our strategic priorities to RS for identification.
Supporting the International growth of Maintain UK profitability the business, 13 new websites were The profitability of the UK reduced in 2010 as launched globally providing customers with the impact of the sales decline and reduction a local language and priced product offer in gross margin, was only partially offset by and services.
the actions taken to reduce operating costs.
In North America, the websites functionality The UK has a clear goal of returning its has been further enhanced, which, together profitability to pre-recession levels: with strong support from the local sales Maintaining our leadership position for the branches, has driven a strong underlying high margin immediate delivery business eCommerce revenue growth of 77% with the business exiting with an eCommerce Leveraging the Groups improved customer revenue share of around 32%.
offers, especially electronics and eCommerce OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 13
