COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW company, and Yuhong, a local organoclay producer, David Dutro have proven instrumental in providing Elementis with a Group Chief Executive powerful growth platform in Asia Paci c. Asia Paci c is a key component of our future growth strategy and is now Specialty Products largest sales region, delivering growth in 2010 of 20 per cent year on year.
Innovation has been and will continue to be at the heart of our success in Specialty Products.
Our product portfolio, new product development and investment in technology are uni ed by one simple over-arching theme: to make our customers more successful.
We are aligned with the market leaders on a global basis and have long term relationships with these customers.
We have cultivated a reputation as the company that provides the most Dear Shareholders, comprehensive and value added solutions for their formulary challenges.
This focus on delivering value In last years report, I wrote of our resolute commitment to to our customers resulted in signi cant new business.
enter 2010 in a stronger competitive position and poised An example is in the shale gas drilling sector where our to generate material growth, during what we anticipated innovative products allow customers to drill faster, further to be a period of modest progress in global GDP.
We are investing behind these pleased to report that we successfully executed that innovative products to build pro table market share and strategy in 2010, yielding strong financial results across have implemented a number of productivity initiatives all of the Groups activities.
Group operating pro t, and capacity expansion projects, including a signi cant operating margin, free cash ow and EPS all improved capacity expansion at our Charleston, West Virginia facility sharply over 2009, and these improving trends for the to support the growth of our shale gas drilling product Group resulted in several earnings upgrades over the range.
As strong as the innovation programme has been course of the year.
All three Elementis businesses made to date, we are equally pleased with the quality of our new material contributions to the improvement and amongst product pipeline going forward.
the highlights were: The acquisition of Fancor in December 2009 The signi cant improvement in Group sales and strengthened the product offering of our pro table operating pro t. personal care business and is consistent with our strategy A continued improvement in Group operating to preferentially invest and grow the Specialty Products margin with an accelerating trend across the year.
The quality of the Specialty Products business Strong operating cash ow performance which is re ected in its margins, which are moving back to the was enhanced by structural improvements to peak levels experienced in 2007 8, a level that we believe working capital.
is sustainable based on the value we deliver to our A record performance in Specialty Products with customers.
While our products are a small percentage sales up 30 per cent, operating pro t up 132 per cent.
of the overall cost of our customers formulations they The solid performance from Chromium which are critical to the performance and therefore highly delivered strong cash ow and good pro t and valued.
This characteristic allows the business to pass margin growth.
through increases in our input cost and maintain true The signi cant reduction in our net debt position, specialty chemical margins.
which reduced by $27 million to $79.3 million.
Rheology, the science of ow and viscosity, is a key Specialty Products, which is our largest business component of our product offering and value proposition representing 70 per cent of Group operating pro t, in Specialty Products.
Elementis owns and operates the reported its best year ever in terms of sales and operating only commercial grade hectorite clay mine in the world, pro t. This record performance is even more notable a substance that has unique rheological properties, given that the recovery in the critical North American giving Elementis a sustainable competitive advantage.
coatings market in 2010 was from a much lower base than Currently we estimate the productive life of the hectorite other regions and therefore bodes well for our future as mine to be in excess of 50 years.
that region continues to recover.
The 2008 Asia Paci c based acquisitions of Deuchem, a specialty additives Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 03 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW CONTINUED Elementis Chromium delivered excellent results in 2010 We have a collective sense of optimism within Elementis re ecting the bene ts of the restructured business, about the near and long term future of the Group.
further validating the new business model and giving This optimism is based on the ongoing positive us greater con dence in the ability of the business to transformation of our company into a business that can deliver more stable earnings and cash ow.
The business reliably generate strong pro ts and cash ow, giving us delivered operating margins of 17 per cent and a return the financial exibility to invest for future growth to on capital of 44.8 per cent in 2010.
The strong demand deliver shareholder value.
from our customers experienced in 2010 is expected to continue into the foreseeable future and con dence in The positive momentum in market demand and growth our ability to pass through any cost increases and that we experienced in 2010 has continued into the early maintain margins is high.
We have also invested in an part of 2011.
Our revenues and margins continue to show alternative energy project that will allow the Castle Hayne, improvement over the same period in 2010 despite the North Carolina facility to operate on natural gas as well as first half of last year being a period of signi cant customer fuel oil.
This capital investment will give the business restocking.
Coupled with our robust order book, these greater exibility to procure energy in a more cost trends give us con dence in our ability to deliver further effective manner going forward.
Moreover, the move to good progress in 2011.
Moreover, our financial strength, natural gas will not only save money for Elementis, given unique competitive advantages, reputation in the global present energy costs, it also has the potential to reduce marketplace and, most importantly, the quality and greenhouse gas emissions at Castle Hayne by as much character of our people, give us con dence in our ability as 25 per cent.
to deliver further growth well into the future.
The Surfactants business, based in the Netherlands, made I would like to sincerely thank our shareholders and good progress in 2010 in its strategic intent to improve its customers for their continued con dence and support.
product and market mix, effectively selling less volume into the lowest margin commodity segments and more into the better margin markets.
The business also improved its operational productivity compared to 2009, as volumes improved in key operational segments.
As such, earnings showed good improvement over the near break-even level in 2009.
This business shares its David Dutro production facility with the Specialty Products business Group Chief Executive and the goal remains to utilise more of the facility over 1 March 2011 time to support the coatings additives that are used by Specialty Products.
While we are encouraged and proud of the Groups continuing progress and that our 2010 results are ahead of expectations on almost every performance measure, we are certainly not satis ed and believe that there is much more that we can achieve.
The reality is we still have signi cant opportunities to drive further improvement in performance and results for our shareholders.
Elementis is strategically well placed to bene t from the powerful global trends of robust growth in shale gas drilling, the opportunities provided by our established position in emerging and high growth markets, especially in Asia, and our portfolio of highly valued and innovative products particularly in all-natural personal care formulations and high performance coatings.
04 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010
