cHief executives report We are well on our way to building a strong technically differentiated company with over a thousand people now working for EnQuest.
With safety as our first priority, we have hired new senior management and instituted new systems and a functional responsibility matrix.
Our newly formed integrated subsurface and execution teams managed a capital programme totalling $196.3 million on a pro-forma basis.
This included the drilling of five production and injection wells, two exploration and appraisal wells, execution of the Don to Thistle export programme, execution of the Broom to Heather improved pipeline and many other upgrade programmes.
We also completed a major upgrade of the Thistle platform drilling rig.
Our active drilling programme included what we believe are record drilling times in the northern North Sea only 41 days for the S5 well at Don Southwest.
EnQuests differentiated strategy EnQuest is an exploitation company focusing on discovered reserves, late life assets and near field appraisal and exploration.
EnQuest aims to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder Amjad Bseisu value by focusing on exploiting our Chief Executive existing reserves, commercialising and developing discoveries, converting our contingent resources into reserves and Delivering strong growth pursuing selective acquisitions and opportunities in new licence rounds.
Our first year has been an excellent start for EnQuest, With EnQuests core technical capability and its financial strength, the delivering production, operational, and financial results Company is well placed to grow and to exceeding expectations.
Pro-forma production rose create a substantial development and production company with strong 55% to 21,074 Boepd making EnQuest the largest UK long-term prospects.
independent producer in the UK North Sea.
The increase The North Sea provides a significant was due to additional production from our Don fields where opportunity that fits EnQuests we drilled one injection and three production wells and to strategy, with its extensive existing infrastructure and its pool of skilled our Thistle field where we have successfully rebuilt a labour.
Our integrated team approach platform rig and drilled and worked over two wells.
Our with focus on subsurface and operations skills, allows us to be active capital programme increased EnQuests 2P reserves internally focused on execution.
by 10% to a net 88.5 MMboe, representing a reserve The results of this integrated team approach were exemplified by the replacement ratio of 208% in our maiden year of operations.
excellence of EnQuests drilling work, EnQuests financial results were also strong, driven by our execution of two pipeline projects in 2010 on time and ahead of budget the increased production levels as well as higher oil and completion of the Thistle rig prices.
Pro-forma revenues were up 93% to $614.4 million refurbishment programme.
and pre-exceptionals EBITDA was up 196% to $369.3 million.
12 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Health, Safety and Environment Pre-exceptionals pro-forma EBITDA Hse was 196% up at $369.3 million.
HSE is our first priority and is integral to how we manage our business, EnQuest also had strong production with regard to our people, our driven reported cash flow from installations and the environment operations of $267.7 million.
During in which we operate.
the year, on a pro-forma basis the Group realised average oil prices per I am pleased that Norman Thomson barrel of $81.3, compared with $65.1 has joined us as Head of Health, per barrel in 2009, reflecting the Safety, Environment and Quality increases in market prices for Brent HSEQ to manage and further crude.
The year end balance sheet develop our HSEQ systems, policies was also strong, with a net cash With EnQuests core and procedures and to provide balance of $41.4 million, after functional safety leadership to all of repayment of the $88.8 million of technical capability and our Asset Managers.
HSE is a critical net debt arising from the Stratic part of EnQuests values and is acquisition and also $29.2 million of our financial strength, we reflected in all of our operational and working capital due to Petrofac and are well placed to become development decisions.
Our borrowing facility had help to bring further rigour to our no cash draw downs as at the end a leader amongst our peer performance and operational HSEQ of 2010. group and to create a measures, allowing a proactive continuous improvement approach in Pro-forma unit cost of sales for substantial development all of our assets and development production and transportation costs and production company projects.
In 2010, we had a strong HSE were $30.4 per Boe in 2010, driven record with an LTA rate of 0.21, and we partly by one-off workover costs on with strong long-term put in place an HSE culture and HSE the West Don W2 well and by the growth prospects.
systems designed to maintain and higher than anticipated costs imposed improve on our current high on EnQuest for the maintenance and I believe that EnQuests standards.
operation of the Sullom Voe Terminal, differentiated focus on the destination for the petroleum from Operational results ahead of all three of our hubs.
late life development expectations opportunities that are not As noted, EnQuest had a 55% increase Pro-forma capital expenditure of in pro-forma production to 21,074 $196.3 million was less than initially material to others, will Boepd, which came ahead of our anticipated, partly due to the speed deliver substantial growth 18,000 Boepd target as initially set for and efficiency of the drilling the year.
This outperformance came programme and also to the rephasing for our shareholders.
primarily from the Don and Thistle of some projects that will now be fields, where EnQuest had undertaken implemented in 2011.
For example the a programme of active investment.
Thistle rig started a programme of partial well abandonments in late On the Don fields, a threefold year- 2010, prior to returning to drilling the on-year growth in production was North West Fault Block, which was achieved, with an increase in daily consequently rephased into 2011. average pro-forma net production from 3,358 Boepd in 2009 to 11,660 Boepd in 2010: in particular reflecting the positive contribution from the Don Production Pro-forma daily average net production Boepd Southwest S5 and S6 production and injection wells.
On Thistle, the newly refurbished rig carried out its first 2010 21,074 drilling in over 20 years, with the new 2009 13,613 well drilled under budget and in only up 55% 47 days.
Approximately $70 million has been invested in an extensive upgrade of Thistles drilling facilities, 2P Reserves Net year end 2P reserves allowing us to lower drilling costs MMboe significantly and to tap smaller Reserves replacement ratio reserves.
At our third hub, Heather, 2010 88.5 the 2010 work programme was focused on a major subsurface review 2009 80.5 and a drilling evaluation project.
This 208% has been completed and a rig upgrade programme will start this year.
Pro-forma EBITDA Pro-forma EBITDA $ million A strong financial performance Pro-forma profit before tax and net 2010 369.3 finance costs rose to $169.4 million, compared to $24.6 million in 2009.
2009 124.8 up 196% EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 13 cHief executives report CONTINUED Through its resolute focus on execution and its creation of fresh opportunities, EnQuest has delivered in its first year.
EnQuest is firmly on track with its ambitious plans to become a substantial exploitation company in the North Sea.
An active and productive business of the Kuwait Petroleum Company Building a high performance development programme and we believe this is KUFPECs first organisation Since announcing our intention upstream investment in Europe.
The EnQuest vision and values have to float, EnQuests technical been defined and enthusiastically and financial capabilities have EnQuests main focus in acquiring embraced by our staff.
This has continued to strengthen as we Stratic was its interests in the West greatly helped us to swiftly create one have assessed a steady stream Don field and the undeveloped highly focused organisation, from the of potential opportunities.
Crawford field, but we recognised that two heritage companies and more a Stratic project in Slovenia also had recently also from the Stratic Just a few weeks after flotation, some potential in its own right.
Our vision centres around EnQuest submitted bids as part of the Following the completion of the three key elements: 26th licensing round, and in October Stratic acquisition, we announced the to become the UKs leading 2010, we were pleased to be offered disposal of our 48.75% working independent oil and gas production all of the licences we had applied for.
interest in the Petisovci project in and development company These new EnQuest licences Slovenia in return for a 22.5% equity to become a technical leader in complement and build on the strength stake in Ascent Resources PLC, the integrated development of our existing portfolio in the North operator of the Petisovci project and to maximise the potential from Sea.
The new licences included: the owner of an existing 26% working existing fields and undeveloped Ardmore, where studies are underway interest.
This transaction, completed discoveries in the UKCS to assess its redevelopment potential, in February 2011, will enable EnQuest and beyond Pilot, which is a heavy oil discovery to crystallise such value as may be close to Elke, block 3 1c which is a realised from this asset in the future.
small exploration block adjacent to Heather, and block 3 17 an exploration Reserves growth sustaining block immediately south east of an EnQuests future production growth existing EnQuest block 3 11a.
EnQuest seeks to maximise reserves generation from its existing assets In August 2010, we announced our and through developments and first acquisition since EnQuests IPO, selective acquisitions.
In 2010, we that of Stratic Energy Corporation delivered increased reserves by both Stratic : this was subsequently of these means.
This Proven and Probable Reserves acquisition was in line with our Over the course of the year, we grew 2P MMbbl strategy to deliver sustainable growth our year end net 2P reserves by 10%, in shareholder value through the this equates to a reserve replacement At 1 January 2010 80.50 exploitation of existing reserves and ratio of 208%.
This increase in Production during 2010 7.41 pursuit of selective acquisitions.
reserves replaced the 7.4 MMboe Revisions to estimates 8.22 Stratic added 7.2 MMboe to our 2P produced during the year and in Acquisition Stratic 7.20 reserves, enhanced our working addition also added approximately As at 31 December 2010 88.51 interest in West Don from 27.7% to the same amount again.
This robust 44.95% and provided a 19% interest growth was achieved partly through Contingent Resources MMbbl in the Crawford field.
At the time of the Stratic acquisition, but we also the announcement, the acquisition delivered a net 8.2 MMboe through At 1 January 2010 72.72 purchase price, adjusted for tax, the exploitation of our existing assets.
Revisions to estimates 3.77 equated to US$11.2 per barrel of Acquisitions 8.07 2P reserves.
EnQuest increased its acreage Additions UK 26th position from 16 to 26 licences in the licensing round 25.00 In 2010, we also signed a farm-in UKCS.
These opportunities alongside Disposals 4.50 agreement with the Kuwait Foreign external ones form the basis for Petroleum Exploration Corporation continued conversion of undeveloped As at 31 December 2010 105.56 KUFPEC, to join us in the Elke and unappraised discoveries to discovery.
KUFPEC is a subsidiary producing assets.
14 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Summary and outlook for 2011: assets, EnQuest is now targeting longer term growth objectives from its Delivering growth 26,500 Boepd average net production UKCS production and further afield.
In summary, we are pleased to report for 2011.
This equates to a 26% increase that EnQuest has exceeded its growth above 2010, significantly increasing Through its resolute focus on targets for 2010.
We delivered our cash flow.
Our 26,500 Boepd execution and its creation of fresh pro-forma net production of over target is underpinned by our active opportunities, EnQuest has delivered 21,000 Boepd, with growth of 55% 2011 programme of eight wells.
against its targets in its first year.
This on the prior year and we generated Following the early success in 2011 at performance and todays results give pro-forma EBITDA of $369.3 million, Area E, the drilling programme will me more confidence than ever in our with strong reported net cash flow include five production wells, two on ability to deliver sustainable growth from operations of $112.8 million after Don Southwest and three on Thistle.
in shareholder value through the adjusting for capital expenditure of Our guidance for full year levels of exploitation of existing reserves, $154.9 million.
In 2010, we increased capital expenditure is that we currently development opportunities and our year end net 2P reserves by 10% anticipate approximately $300 million selective acquisitions.
We have grown to 88.5 MMboe, with a reserve of capex this year: $250 million on not only our production and reserves replacement ratio of 208%.
We development drilling and facilities, $50 levels, but also our staffing, our completed our first acquisition since million on exploration and appraisal.
capacities and our differentiated our IPO, providing us with a capabilities.
EnQuest is firmly on track meaningful increase in our 2P reserves EnQuest was disappointed by the with its ambitious plans to become a and increasing our equity in the West recent unexpected UK Budget substantial exploitation company in Don field.
We were also pleased to be decision to increase the supplementary the North Sea and beyond.
offered all of the licences we sought in charge levied on North Sea oil and gas the 26th licensing round.
Our business production from 20% to 32%.
The development effort has provided increase in tax rate does not create a opportunities for new stand-alone positive climate for additional projects and the potential for investments in the UKCS and will additional hubs and we have increased render some small field investments the number of EnQuests UK uneconomic.
Nonetheless, there production licences from 16 to 26. remains significant potential in our development and production Building on the momentum of programme and EnQuest is confident performance in 2010 and the of its ability to deliver not only its continuous development of our 2011 targets, but also its medium and EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 15
