interview witH tHe cHief executive Q.
Why an exploitation focus rather 2010 EnQuest Timeline than an exploration one?
Our vision for EnQuest was based on the conviction that there is a Thistle A46 Jet Pump installed and production recommenced from significant opportunity for an well A46 agile mid-sized, highly technical organisation that can take March advantage of the potential of S2Z sidetrack well on Don Southwest smaller and late life oil fields which are not material for the industry Up and over to Thistle majors.
In North America, this is a tried and tested model for Programme of Thistle partial abandonment begins extracting maximum value from mature assets.
Increasing the EnQuest PLC announces its intention to float on the London Stock recovery rates on mature late life Exchange and the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm including the setting fields is however not an easy of a production target for 2010 at 18,000 Boepd for pro-forma average operation and in many ways this is daily net production, representing an increase of more than 30% the last hard yard.
An organisation over 2009 with significant in-house technical project resources and a highly April efficient integrated organisation is Start of trading in EnQuest PLC needed to achieve this objective.
EnQuest has the necessary EnQuest submits applications for 26th licensing round technical skills and the required operational scale and financial July strength that could make this S5 production well online at Don Southwest model a success in the UK.
We also undertake some exploration and August appraisal work but it is generally EnQuests maiden set of half year financial results announced 2010 limited in scale and is largely production target increased by more than 10%, from 18,000 Boepd low-cost and or near field in nature.
Where such exploration is to 20,000 Boepd successful, it carries high rates of Announced KUFPEC farm-in to Elke return given the limited additional costs of production.
Announced intention to acquire Stratic Energy Corporation Q.
Why the North Sea, isnt it S6 injection well online at Don Southwest in decline?
Production from the UKCS may EnQuest PLC offered all the licences it applied for in the 26th be past its peak, but the UK still licensing round produced 2.4 million Boepd in 2009 and satisfied over 90% of the W4 production well online at West Don oil demand in the UK.
There is still a lot of potential in the North Sea, November with potentially 15-24 Billion Boe of Broom pipeline replacement and augmentation project completed Britains oil reserves and resources yet to be recovered.
In 2010 on time EnQuest generated an average net production of c21,000 Boepd, Completion of acquisition of Stratic Energy Corporation so the size of the remaining UKCS First well on Thistle in over 20 years comes online the SFB-P1 reserves and smaller fields represents a highly material December opportunity for us.
Typically we EnQuest closes its first financial year with its share price at 139.5p, target fields with 10 MMboe to 20 MMboe of reserves.
Doing business 43.5% up on its opening price on the day of flotation in the North Sea also has other advantages: access to a local pool of high quality industry skills and a relatively stable geo-political environment.
I am, however, very disappointed by the recent unexpected decision to increase the supplementary tax levied on oil and gas production.
The tax increase does not create a positive climate for additional investments in the UKCS and will render some small field investments 16 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements uneconomic, negatively impacting and invest more aggressively in Q.
What is your general approach to both the ultimate recovery of their development.
What are resources in the UKCS and our integrated subsurface and your strategic and financial reducing overall tax take when execution approach has allowed investment criteria?
us to unlock further potential from these fields.
It all starts with the subsurface we Q.
Would you look outside the North capital investment and technical ask if these are attractive assets to Sea and if so, when?
resources will continue to be which we can apply our capabilities, directed towards these assets either developing smaller fields or A.
We currently see good with the aim of building a strong, extending field life to maximise opportunities in the North Sea to dynamic hub that can maximise production.
We then look at satisfy our medium-term ambitions.
infrastructure issues, considering However our model is certainly also the overlap with our existing hub transferable to other mature basins The hubs are also naturally infrastructure or accessible third and in due course I would expect complementary and give us further party infrastructure or look at the EnQuest to have operations outside value accretion.
For example, new assets themselves as a new the North Sea too, especially excess gas from Dons is now piped hub.
We also analyse the level of with the more negative UKCS to Thistle, thanks to our newly strategic fit, the impact of the fiscal investment climate created by the commissioned gas pipeline, which regime and of course whether or tax increase.
We will always want to reduces the operating costs on not they meet our financial retain the flexibility to respond to Thistle and disposes of unneeded investment criteria.
the right opportunities if they arise.
Also, the cash flow profiles and needs from Q.
What are EnQuests points of the fields are complementary.
How The Dons are young fields which would you characterise your came onstream with high initial in-house resources?
production rates and are highly cash generative, but they will also A.
Our technical skills, operational decline quickly.
This profile allows scale and financial strength us to use cash flow from the Dons underpin our competitive production to reinvest into the advantage.
This is reflected in our older Heather and Thistle fields in-sourcing of key areas of to increase recovery, improve expertise.
We are building what we production and extend the lives believe to be an industry leading of these assets.
integrated team with subsurface, technical and engineering skills Q.
How have you tackled the focused on smaller fields and late challenge of creating EnQuest life assets.
For example, we believe from two different organisations that we already have one of the and is this task complete?
largest in-house drilling teams in Aberdeen.
We committed a considerable Our technical skills, we achieved in 2010 are down to amount of time and resource to operational scale and excellent integrated planning, integrating the two organisations teamwork and execution: delivered and were always conscious of the financial strength by teams which have now been imperative to keep the business underpin our competitive working together often on the moving forwards during both the same rig - on a steady flow of flotation and the transition periods.
Our track Generating a clear vision and sense record of delivery to date and our of purpose from the start made the extensive forward pipeline enables process easier as staff could relate us to retain and attract the talent to the strong shared beliefs in the we need to achieve our ambitious leadership team and EnQuests growth plans.
We have made some growth aspirations.
important appointments during the year, including development, well Communication has been key as we support and reservoir engineers, have created a new management geologists and geoscientists, and team and moved from a functional will continue to recruit actively to an asset based organisation going forward into 2011. structure, which meant that many staff changed roles and reporting Q.
Why do you think that the assets lines during the integration process.
which EnQuest was initially The main transition programmes comprised of are thriving as much are now virtually complete and all as they are?
staff are now together in one location in Aberdeen, but there A.
The assets acquired from Lundin is more to be done before all and Petrofac at flotation are at the our systems and processes are strategic core of EnQuest, so we fully integrated.
have been able to focus on them EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 17
