Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 04 chief executives report Delivering strong results planned due to high rainfall during the monsoon season and high gas prices.
However, the financial impact of this lower generation is largely mitigated by the structure of our power purchase agreements where payments are primarily based on availability.
In October, the first unit of our 380 MW, Vadinar P1 gas fired power plant synchronised with the grid, the first to do so since our Listing in May 2010.
The Vadinar refinery continues to perform well and set records for production and throughput in each quarter of the year.
Total throughput for the year was 14.7 million tonnes of crude, well above the refinerys name plate capacity of 10.5 million tonnes per annum.
In total, we processed 20 different crudes during the year including Mangala, our first domestic crude, being delivered through a 590km heated pipeline from Rajasthan, which is in the north of India.
June saw the fide-regulation of gasoline was a year that presented prices in India which enabled us to We continue to 2010 a mix of challenges compete on a level playing field with and achievements.
Despite ongoing the public sector retailers.
The result execute well against uncertainty across the global economy, was an increase in the sales and Essar Energy, with its focus on profitability of gasoline from our near our significant pipeline India, was able to deliver a strong 1,400 retail fuel outlets across India.
Despite this, increasing oil prices have pushed up the price of gasoil, financial results delaying the governments plans to Our continuing focus on the stated fide-regulate gasoil which accounts strategy has resulted in a profit before for around 80% of our retail sales.
tax for the year of US$365.5 million We continue to plan for 1,700 retail and operating cash flow of US$652.7 fuel outlets across India by April 2011, million.
We remain on track to have in but are likely to slow down our plans place 11,470 MW of power generation beyond this time until the path to the capacity by the end of 2014, subject fide-regulation of gasoil becomes clear.
to securing fuel for the projects under development, and to upgrade our Growth projects refinery to 20 million tonnes per annum We continue to execute well against our capacity with a complexity of 11.8 by significant pipeline of growth projects.
This is in line with In total we invested US$2,957.9 the plans that we announced at the million across our power and oil time of our initial public offering.
and gas projects during the year.
operations In Power, we are currently investing Across the portfolio we saw a in ten power projects and one strong operating performance with transmission project with a combined good availability from our power capital cost of US$2,856.2 million.
plants and another year of record Six of these projects were under production from our Vadinar refinery.
construction at the time of the IPO, but proceeds from the Listing have Despite strong power plant availability, facilitated the movement of four our generation was lower than projects with a combined capacity company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 05 Key milestones Delivering strong results april 2010 Essar Energy acquires Aries of 3,570 MW from the development this, we announced in February an coal mines in Indonesia, to the construction phase.
offer to purchase the Stanlow refinery comprising 64 mmt of in the UK for US$350 million.
The mineable reserves 2011 is a critical year for our power European refining industry is facing business as 2,910 MW of new capacity a number of challenges as existing is planned to enter commercial facilities age and need to be upgraded June 2010 operations during the year.
This new to meet new fuel specifications.
Given Essar Energy receives first capacity will significantly increase Stanlows scale and high complexity, Mangala crude to Vadinar the cash flow and profitability of the we believe that Stanlow will be a refinery, through a dedicated business and remove the construction survivor in this market and under the risk from these projects.
One right ownership it will thrive and prosper.
heated and insulated pipeline downside risk continues to be the We believe that Stanlow will be a from the oil fields in Rajasthan delay in receipt of forest approvals valuable addition to the Essar Energy for coal mines which is holding up portfolio and that this acquisition is october 2010 our captive mine development.
fully aligned with our stated strategy.
Unit #1 of Vadinar P1 power station synchronises with the In our Exploration and Production Health and safety business, we are extremely pleased A true measure of success is enabling grid, the first to do so since the with progress at our Raniganj Coal our employees to operate in a healthy IPO of Essar Energy in May 2010 Bed Methane project.
At the end of and safe working environment.
I the year we had drilled 49 production am pleased with the way that our november 2010 wells with 19 producing gas.
As each employees have embraced our values in Essar Energy announces new well is drilled, our knowledge of this area and our performance has been optimisation project to take the field improves and we are confident recognised externally with the award for of reaching our peak production of the Vadinar refinery of the Gujarat Safety Vadinar refinery capacity to 3.5 mmscm day by 2014.
However Councils winners shield for the lowest 20 mmtpa, to be completed progress on the production sharing disability injury index in 2009.
Also, the by September 2012 contract for our Ratna R Series field Vadinar refinery and the Bhander Power has been slower than expected.
plant at Hazira have received Integrated november 2010 Management systems certifications In Refining, the phase 1 of our Vadinar from the British Standards Institution Four power projects with a expansion is progressing well and after earning both ISO9001 14001 combined capacity of 3,570 is more than 84% complete as of and OHSAS 18001 certification.
MW moved to construction end February 2011.
We expect the phase, taking power capacity expansion to reach mechanical Unfortunately, the performance at our under construction to 8,070 MW completion by the middle of 2011 and under construction projects has been enter commercial production during the below expectations and is an area of particular focus for improvement.
The importance of this expansion is the increase in health and safety of our employees and complexity from 6.1 to 11.8.
This will the communities where we operate allow us to process a higher proportion is a priority for our Company and is important to me personally as well as of heavy and ultra-heavy crudes and produce more high value products.
the whole senior management team.
We expect this to result in an increase in the profitability of the refinery.
Looking forward, our Company has a clear strategy for creating value, using During the year we also identified prudent decision making and focused an opportunity to further increase on the Indian energy growth story.
At the capacity of the refinery to 20 Essar Energy, we have had a good first year and I hope to build on our mmtpa at a very competitive capital cost.
This optimisation project has achievements to deliver our full potential.
already commenced and is on track to complete by September 2012.
Post naresh nayyar our expansion, Essar Energy will be in a situation where it will need to export Chief Executive a higher proportion of high value products in the short to medium term, 18 March 2011 particularly gasoline and gasoil.
The natural markets for these products are Europe and the US and, in line with
