Overview Operations History Strengths Strategy Filtrona operates through four key divisions: Protection & Finishing Products, Porous Technologies, Coated & Security Products, and Filter Products Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies A global market leading provider of The leading global technology developer protection and finishing solutions, and manufacturer of custom bonded manufacturing and distributing plastic fibre and hydrophilic foam components.
injection moulded, dip moulded, adhesiveIts components handle fluid and vapour coated foam and metal products.
41 and deliver high value and precision operating units in 14 countries serve a performance to many of the most very broad base of customers with a rapid well-known healthcare, consumer and supply of primarily plastic products for industrial brand owners in the world.
The protection and finishing applications in components are used in a wide range of industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, product applications including medical oil and gas, electrical controls, point of diagnostics and wound care, inkjet purchase and tubular metal products.
printer cartridges, writing instruments, and air fresheners.
Coated & Security Products Filter Products The global market leading producer of This division is the only global independent high quality self-adhesive tear tape and cigarette filter supplier.
The 10 worldwide a growing supplier of labels, products locations, including a UK-based research and technologies for brand protection, facility and three regional development document authentication, personal centres, provide a flexible infrastructure identification and track and trace.
strategically positioned to serve the Customers in over 100 countries are served tobacco industry.
The division supplies a from facilities operating in six countries.
wide range of value adding high quality Also includes plastic profile extrusion innovative filters from monoacetate activities in The Netherlands.
to multi-segment speciality filters with sophisticated adsorbent materials.
Overview Operations History Strengths Strategy Filtronas strong competitive position has developed from significant investment in global production and service capabilities The Austrian business Bunzl began manufacturing filters in Jarrow, UK during the 1940s and expanded through the formation of Filtrona Corporation in the US during the 1950s.
The formation of Moss Plastics Parts in 1955 introduced the company to the manufacture and distribution of protection and finishing products.
19941996 19971998 2000 2003 2004 Acquisition of MSI Acquisition of Acquisition Acquisition of Acquisition of Oilfields Products American Filtrona of Davidson Baumgartner the Skiffy Group, a market leader Corporation Plastics, a Fibertec, a Swiss based in The in OCTG thread delivering extra profile extrusion based business Netherlands, protectors and filter and bonded operation, a engaged in the which provides pipe protection fibre technology specialist medical development, expertise in the products.
and an extrusion tubing extruder.
manufacture manufacture Acquisition of business.
Expansion of MSI and supply of and supply of Payne and entry Acquisition of into the Latin cigarette filters small nylon parts into the selfEnitor, a leading American market and writing for protection adhesive tear Dutch extruder.
by opening a instrument and finishing tape market.
2005 2007 2008 2010 Filtrona Acquisition of Acquisition of Acquisition demerged Duraco Inc, a Lendell Inc, of BP Labels a from Bunzl plc leading provider a producer manufacturer and became a of adhesive of speciality of secure self separately listed coated products hydrophilic foam adhesive labels.
company on the to many products.
Acquisition of London Stock industries.
manufacturer of speciality adhesive tapes.
