16 Unlocking Resources Chief Executive Officers Statement We remain positive on the Groups prospects for 2011, although the control of costs growth and the development of our assets in Africa will be important issues for management, as will be the continued near-term risk of commodity market volatility.
We made further progress with our strategy by establishing the foundations for growing businesses in Africa and Brazil, with major benefits to be realised in the years ahead.
Felix Vulis, Chief Executive Officer In 2010 the Group delivered a strong In addition, we continued to grow through 2010 also saw the Group enhance its operating and financial performance, with acquisitions, notably expanding our presence in iron ore with acquisitions in production volumes at record levels.
This presence in copper, cobalt and iron ore. Brazil.
The Groups Brazilian assets are performance was built on the robust core Acquisitions during the year have enhanced all projects around the development of the businesses of the Group in Kazakhstan, our assets in Africa primarily in the DRC.
Brazilian Governments East-West rail link as well as the continued strength of the We are undertaking an extensive exploration to open up the Bahia region to economic Chinese economy, the growth evident in programme to scale up the level of resources development.
These projects will provide emerging markets generally and greater and to prove the reserves base.
Whilst we the Group with entry to the worlds one billion stability in the developed economies.
remain in the initial stages of the development tonne seaborne iron ore trade and will enable of the DRC assets, the exploration us to offer products to new customers in the The Group continued to make programme has given us greater confidence Asia-Pacific, Americas, Europe and Middle significant strategic progress during in the scale of our ambitions.
With the additional capacity the year.
In Kazakhstan, we focused also seen us complete the initial phase offered by Brazil, along with the expansion on plans to enhance our existing asset of integration of CAMEC into the Group.
in Kazakhstan, we have positioned the base and increase investment in capacity.
Group to emerge later in the decade as a In May, Phase 2 of the aluminium smelter We made an investment in Northam leading global iron ore player and, as a result, commenced operations on time and Platinum to give us strategic optionality in this will shift the balance of our business.
The progress that we have a commodity which we believe has very made in recent and ongoing capex good prospects.
With this acquisition, along projects for example, the Aktobe with our copper and cobalt assets, and with ferroalloys expansion, Phase 2 of the the potential coal and platinum projects, aluminium smelter and the increasing we expect Africa to be a more important power generation capacity gives us geography in the future of the Group.
confidence in the Groups prospects.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Ferroalloys Third-party sales volumes High-carbon ferrochome: 1.12 mt Total ferroalloys: 1.53 mt Iron Ore Third-party sales volumes Iron ore concentrate: 8.58 mt Iron ore pellet: 8.03 mt Alumina and Aluminium Third-party sales volumes Alumina: 1.19 mt Aluminium: 0.22 mt The Groups management extends its Ferroalloys: ore extraction amounted Iron Ore: ore extraction amounted to thanks to all of its employees for their to a record 4.82 mt, whilst total gross some 43.61 mt, ahead of the prior high continued efforts in 2010 and for their ferrochrome production was 1.44 mt, of 40.22 mt in 2007.
Saleable product loyalty and commitment.
of which 1.31 mt was high-carbon amounted to 8.94 mt of concentrate ferrochrome: total gross ferroalloys and 8.02 mt of pellet.
In February of this year I made the decision production rose to 1.86 mt.
Throughout to step down from the Group for personal 2010 the Divisions Kazakhstani Alumina and Aluminium: bauxite reasons.
I am pleased to have been operations were running at effectively extraction reached a record 5.31 mt, associated with the Group for so many full available capacity and exceeded exceeding the previous high in 2008. years, through the development of the the record volumes of 2007.
Production Alumina volumes rose to 1.64 mt as business, with its emergence as a recovered at Serov and Tuoli to effective part of the expansion in alumina capacity.
public company and to have had the full available capacity at the end of 2010.
Aluminium production was at its full opportunity to lead its expansion as Chief available capacity run rate 250 ktpa Executive Officer over the last two years.
from May and totalled 227 kt for the year.
2010 production performance In 2010 the Group achieved a record production performance, reflecting effective full available capacity of the Groups principal Kazakhstani businesses throughout 2010.
Managements success was built on leveraging of low cost production, the Groups location and the retained workforce, 1 0.41 LT IFR against in addition to a rebuild of sales volumes, notably for ferroalloys, in traditional markets 0.63 in 2009 as well as into China.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, excluding Africa 18 Unlocking Resources Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Other Non-ferrous: total production of EBITDA margin increasing to 48%.
Earnings procedures and performance standards.
copper cathode and sludge was 20.27 kt per share was ahead 110% to US 170 cents, We introduced new communication tools whilst that of cobalt contained reached including a one-off gain of US$298 million and an improved incentive system for line 9.65 kt in both metal and concentrate.
arising in relation to the accounting for the managers, raising the priority of health and Brazilian acquisition Bahia Minerals BV safety, and undertook behavioural audits Energy: coal extraction reached a record BMBV in September 2010 and acquisition across all of the Divisions.
A special site visit 20.10 mt, exceeding the previous high related costs of US$73 million.
The Groups was conducted to the African operations and of 2009.
Power generation reached effective tax rate for the year was 26.2%, we developed a safety management system 13,711 GWh, again a new high, and which included the impact of these two items.
Corporate safety standards reflected efforts to maximise available and reporting procedures are being applied capacity to take advantage of the new The Group saw a substantial increase in to all operations in Africa.
electricity price regime and to meet operating cash flow during the year, rising to the Groups growing internal power US$2,303 million 2009: US$1,209 million.
At For the Group, the number of fatalities requirements.
Internal power consumption the year end the Group maintained a strong in 2010 was seven 2009: 12, with three reached 73.9% of total production.
balance sheet position, with net debt of out of eight of the principal operations US$37 million, having secured additional in Kazakhstan and Russia avoiding any funding from international banks, export fatalities in both 2010 and 2009.
All deaths 2010 financial performance The Groups strong financial performance in credit agencies, the Chinese Development are regrettable to us and we express our Bank and the Kazakhstan Sovereign Wealth condolences to the families involved.
The 2010 was underpinned by a rapid response to the markets recovering appetite for Fund Samruk-Kazyna.
number of work-related injuries excluding Africa for 2010 was 45 2009: 64.
The commodities, its strategic location and its low cost position.
These factors were partially health & safety Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR excluding Africa was 0.41 2009: 0.63 per offset by increased costs in relation to the Health and safety remains a key priority for build out of the Other Non-ferrous Division.
In 2010 we undertook a number one million hours worked.
Africa had zero of major initiatives to raise engagement fatalities, 52 injury cases and an LTIFR of For the Group, margins rose as like-for-like and compliance with health and safety 2.88.
In 2011 the Group will integrate the revenue growth of 62% outstripped the standards.
This was in response to the reporting of health and safety statistics of increase in like-for-like total costs of 27%.
challenging environment of 2009 and Africa into those of the Group as a whole.
Total revenue rose 72% to US$6,605 million, our desire to improve performance across due to both higher prices and significantly the Group.
We continued with the The Group remains focused on improving higher sales volumes, including new sales implementation of our safety management its delivery of health and safety based on of aluminium and copper and cobalt.
Total system, with improved reporting and the adoption, in 2008, of an aspiration to costs growth reflected both higher volumes with a rollout of our new Safety Culture zero injuries.
and rising unit costs, which was a feature Improvement Project across our businesses for the industry as well as the Group in 2010, in Kazakhstan and Russia.
The project and the inclusion of the Other Non-ferrous will enable us to build an integrated Division.
Underlying EBITDA rose 118% organisational structure, provide managerial to US$3,194 million, with the Underlying leadership and establish effective safety Other Non-ferrous Third-party sales volumes Copper cathode and sludge: 19.70 kt Cobalt contained: 9.40 kt Energy Third-party sales volumes Coal: 6.96 mt Electricity: 2,565 GWh ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 acquisitions to reinforce its resource and production Capital expenditure In 2010 the Group accelerated its growth capacity in the DRC.
In August the Group For 2010 capital expenditure amounted to strategy in its targeted commodities.
The purchased 50.5% of Camrose Resources US$1,187 million 2009: US$1,147 million, underlying aim is to build a portfolio of tier one Limited and its subsidiaries Camrose approximately US$300 million below our assets, which are large scale and scaleable, for US$175 million.
The primary assets of initial expectations, due to the timing of having extended mine lives, and with the the Camrose joint venture are high-quality certain investments and managements potential to be towards the lower end of the copper and cobalt exploitation licences decision to revise the planned development cost curve.
Our recent activity has focused located in the DRC.
and defer expenditure on a number of on Africa, which has an outstanding mineral projects in Africa.
Management prioritised resource base, where we have established In September the Group completed the a review of the assets of the Other an operational platform for copper and purchase of the outstanding 50% of the Non-ferrous Division to provide a better cobalt, and on Brazil, where we are looking BML Project, an iron ore resource in Brazil, basis for determining the optimal capital to build a presence in the seaborne iron ore for a net cash consideration of US$670 expenditure for the development of the market and aspire to emerge as a major million.
In October the Group announced businesses.
The Groups acquisitions strategy the purchase of MIBA and subscribed for is unchanged and remains interested in 51% of MPB for up to US$304 million.
MIBA Project highlights in 2010 included: its major core products, ferrochrome and and MPB own iron ore licences in Brazil iron ore, but will also consider looking at proximate to the East-West rail link and the Ferroalloys construction of four furnaces opportunities to enhance our recently BML Project.
with 440 ktpa gross capacity at Aktobe acquired copper, cobalt and platinum assets, is still in progress.
Design engineering as well as the potential of thermal coal.
In January 2011 the Group announced the has been completed and preparatory extension of a call option originally granted works for the construction commenced In AprilMay 2010 the Group completed the in February 2009 in conjunction with the in 2010 and are planned to be finished US$300 million acquisition of Enya Holdings acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol, in 2011.
Advance payments for primary BV Enya which holds a 90% interest in one of Kazakhstans largest thermal coal equipment such as furnaces, transformers, Chambishi, a Zambian copper and cobalt producers.
The call option gives ENRC rectifiers and automatics have been producer.
In April the Group purchased the right to acquire the outstanding 75% made: these will be built within 13 months a 12.2% interest in Northam Platinum, a of the ordinary shares of Shubarkol for and are expected to be delivered in 2012. major platinum producer in South Africa a consideration of some US$600 million.
and subsequent purchases increased the The call option extension, which has Iron Ore the completion in June of a holding to 14.35%: the total consideration been granted for nil consideration, metal casting plant and ongoing feasibility paid was US$345 million.
In June the Group extends the expiry date of the call option studies for the expansion of iron ore completed the US$75 million purchase of the to 31 January 2012. extraction and the development of new outstanding 50% of the issued share capital high quality concentrate, high quality of SMKK.
SMKK has exploration permit pellet and Hot Briquetted Iron capacity.
assets contiguous to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
The acquisition of the outstanding 50% of SMKK allows the Group Progress in Africa Copper and cobalt 103,000 metres of exploration and infill exploration for african coal As 2010 progressed we completed the drilling in 2010 in the DRC: 92,000 metres Drilling commenced on North Shore acquisitions of: processing capability still to be analysed at end 2010 Chambishi Metals in Zambia: additional In-house inferred resource estimate resource SMKK in the DRC: and a mine 1,180 kt contained copper JORC-compliant non-JORC compliant for North Shore management capability Congo Cobalt resource as at January 2011 of 1.35 billion tonnes Corporation in the DRC.
We also established the Camrose joint venture Ongoing work to convert resource Project Estima Licence 871 has in the DRC, giving us access to additional to reserves a historic JORC-compliant resource copper and cobalt resource.
The collection of 1.03 billion tonnes Significant drilling programme planned of these businesses and resources for 2011 establishes a compelling copper and Feasibility study commissioned cobalt business.
for Project Estima Licence 871 2011 production target: 33 kt copper completion expected in 2011 cathode: 10 kt contained cobalt The acquisition of CAMEC in 2009 also marked the potential expansion into We continued drilling for coal in Platinum the export coal business, through our Mozambique, and our overall resource In 2010, the Group acquired an investment Mozambique project, and a potential base is currently well over 2 billion tonnes.
in Northam Platinum in South Africa of platinum opportunity.
We have been very pleased with the drilling 14.35%.
The Group continued to work results to date and believe that we will, over to resolve the sanctions issues relating We achieved more than just acquisitions time, report significant additional tonnage.
during 2010, especially in terms of exploration and the definition of indicated resource: 20 Unlocking Resources Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Alumina and Aluminium the completion Risk Industry overview of the 125 ktpa Phase 2 of the aluminium Throughout 2010 the Executive management The stainless steel industry saw a significant smelter in early May, the ongoing and the Board had a regular dialogue with recovery in 2010, with production for the year expansion of alumina production to shareholders.
These discussions included estimated at about 31.3 mt, up 21% from 1.7 mtpa in 2011 and the initiation of corporate governance and the business 25.9 mt in 2009.
China remained both the construction of a 136 ktpa anode plant.
acquisition processes, as well as the largest and fastest growing producer of perceived level of risk ascribed to ENRC.
stainless steel with an estimated 11.4 mt Energy the commissioning of the new The Group is cognisant of shareholders in 2010, accounting for some 36% of total overburden conveyor in June: and views.
We are aware that some of the production.
The speed of the recovery in jurisdictions in which the Group operates global stainless steel volumes, coupled Other Non-ferrous the commissioning pose particular and often heightened with low stockpiles at the beginning of of Phase 1 of the cobalt SX EW plant, reputational issues that need to be managed 2010, tightened the ferrochrome market which started production in Q4 2010. appropriately.
The Group continues to be considerably and, as a result, the European open for dialogue with shareholders, and benchmark price rose US 35 cents per At the start of 2011 management other stakeholders, to represent its position pound to US$1.36 in Q2 2010.
The re-evaluated planned capital expenditure.
subsequent increase in ferroalloys The Group has added the purchase of production and a global slowdown in wagons and trucks in the Logistics Division, On 3 December 2010, Congo Mineral stainless steel output, created an oversupply reassessed investments in the Other Developments Limited, a subsidiary of going into H2 2010, which resulted in the Non-ferrous Division which were increased First Quantum Minerals Limited, served a benchmark falling US 6 cents in Q3 and, into to US$810 million and made additional claim for an estimated US$2 billion on four Q1 2011, a further US 5 cents to US$1.25.
changes to the Energy Division spend.
subsidiaries together the Highwind Group This has broadly followed the pattern of We have also included the projected spend of Camrose Resources Limited, a joint the spot price of ferrochrome in China, on the BML Project and MIBA, both in Brazil.
venture company in which the Group holds increasingly an industry bellwether.
For As a result, Execution and Planning and 50.5% of the share capital, in relation to the the industry, capacity utilisation in 2010 Design both formerly In Progress and Kolwezi tailings project.
The Highwind Group amounted to 84.5%.
Looking forward to Pre-feasibility formerly Under Review has applied to strike out the claim.
2011 pricing will depend to a large extent capital expenditure totals US$11.1 billion.
However, it will also In 2010, the Group continued to enhance be constrained by the still material spare In 2011 capital expenditure is expected to its approach to risk management and capacity of the ferrochrome industry and amount to about US$2.5 billion excluding the ability of China to increase production established a Group-wide Compliance BML, as we accelerate a number of the function.
The Group is continuing with to meet domestic demand.
Longer-term, Groups key growth initiatives, in particular higher costs, particularly in South Africa, the recruitment of additional high calibre spend on the Aktobe smelter and in the Iron individuals.
The further development of should support prices at higher levels while Ore, Other Non-ferrous and Logistics supply constraints, also in South Africa, policies, processes and procedures, in Divisions.
2011 includes US$0.6 billion for particular to support the acquisition and could provide further upside.
integration process, is under way.
US$ 2.5 billion planned capital expenditure for 2011 Capital expenditure will require a strong management focus and in 2011 we expect to deliver progress on the Aktobe ferroalloys programme, our iron ore investments and in copper and cobalt in Africa.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 For iron ore, the improvement in the Russian Furthermore, supply constraints, underpinned also expect some limited appreciation of steel industry in 2010 enabled us to sell by a range of different factors, continue to the Kazakhstani tenge KZT against the higher volumes to our principal customer, affect our main commodities and support US dollar during the course of 2011 and Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works MMK.
Positive signs are are working with an average exchange However, this was limited by the iron ore also emerging in the United States and some rate forecast in the range of KZT142 to surplus that continued in Russia.
The further development of MMK amounted to approximately 10.6 mt.
some risks for the immediate future as China our African assets will also be a factor Sales to China, which doubled in 2009 seeks to control and redirect its growth, impacting costs in 2011. versus 2008, made up some of the shortfall with ongoing uncertainties in certain in volumes to MMK, and remained broadly European economies and as governments The Groups strategy remains focused steady in 2010 at 5.6 mt.
A Platts-based around the world seek to rein back on the on growing long-life, scaleable and low pricing formula has been agreed with MMK stimulus packages introduced in response production-cost assets to deliver value and will be valid until the end of 2012.
There to the recent financial crisis and lessen for our shareholders.
Following last were some additional sales to Arcelor Mittal inflationary pressures.
Together these years acquisitions to develop the Groups in Kazakhstan.
The greatest opportunity for increase the likelihood of near-term volatility commodities and geographic asset base, us to develop sales in the future is the in both the price and growth trajectories management will be focused in 2011 ongoing industrialisation of markets in North of our commodities.
Nonethelesss, we on proving the new assets, firming-up West China, along with the access that will remain confident that robust demand will development plans and implementing be offered by the Kazakhstani Governments continue for our products.
new China Gateway rail link due to be fully Capital expenditure will require a strong operational in 2012.
The market for higher In 2011 the Group will continue to seek to management focus and in 2011 we will value added products is another opportunity maximise its production potential.
However, expect to deliver progress on the Aktobe for the Group, hence the project to build notwithstanding some limited upside in ferroalloys programme, our iron ore Hot Briquetted Iron capacity.
Overall we ferroalloys, iron ore and alumina and investments, and in copper and cobalt expect Chinas continued increase in steel aluminium, as well as the continued building in Africa.
We are ready to initiate progress production and its strong demand for iron of copper and cobalt production, the in Brazil as soon as the port licence is ore to keep the market tight and support capacity growth of the Group will be limited approved.
We will not forgo the potential strong pricing in the medium term.
until its large capital expenditure projects of further acquisitions as an important start coming on line in 2013. route for further growth, particularly those Outlook filling-out our portfolio and in line with 2011 will require the Group to maintain our strategy.
The longer-term outlook for the Groups main commodities and its main markets an intense focus on costs.
Cost inflation is affecting the whole industry, but we will With our strong balance sheet, of China, other Asia-Pacific countries and Russia, remains very positive as these continue to focus on efficiency improvement the scaleable asset base, the low cost initiatives.
Costs growth is across materials, potential of our asset suite and presence commodity-intensive economies continue to grow.
GDP growth in China appears well transportation, fuel and other inputs, as well in strategic locations, we are well as logistics costs, and all are expected to positioned to enhance shareholder supported at the level of 7%9% per annum, while the prospect for robust growth remains show significant growth in 2011: Kazakhstani value over the longer term.
labour costs will rise in line with inflation.
We for emerging markets more generally.
The Groups strong performance in 2010 was built on the solid foundations of the businesses in Kazakhstan which delivered record production in the year.
Chinas economic growth and our strategic location remained key, while we also saw recovery in our traditional markets.
Maintaining and exploiting our advantaged cost position was also critical.
