4 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction Interview with Don Robert, CEO Where are the best growth What will Experian look like in five opportunities for Experian?
Experian has never been short of Well be bigger, of course, with a opportunities and, in many ways, the presence in more countries.
Experian Q&A hard bit is ensuring we concentrate already delivers services into over our efforts and resources on the best 90 countries and I fully expect this to of these.
Some countries, where we are include taking our existing global now only starting to build a presence, products into new geographies, will become a lot more important to such as were doing in Asia Pacific us strategically.
Well also be firmly and Brazil.
We see particularly established across more market good growth potential for our fraud segments, building on the strong prevention and identity management foundation we have within the tools.
In the medium term, were financial services sector.
Our larger excited by the growth potential in new clients will be buying more of our How has Experian been affected by vertical markets, such as the public products and services, as we become the global economic downturn?
sector, telecommunications and US increasingly vital to them.
And while Conditions in some of our major healthcare payments.
In the longer I expect us to be supporting more markets have certainly been term, were focused on laying the organisations on a global basis, well challenging, but we adapted quickly to foundations for the next generation also be delivering more services to the changing priorities of our clients of growth.
Our new credit bureau smaller businesses, such as were and worked hard on reducing our venture in India is an example of this now doing in Brazil.
It enabled us to keep growing and were also evaluating bureau well be offering more services to throughout the crisis.
We achieved opportunities in other markets around the consumer, helping them keep organic revenue growth in each the world.
control of their personal and financial quarter and increased our profits.
We were also successful in reducing How does Experian manage its our debt levels, while still investing global business?
Whats your view on how to use the in the business.
Im very proud of We have invested a lot of energy cash that Experian generates?
this performance and I believe it sets in ensuring we have the right I recognise that Experian is highly Experian apart as a company.
The organisational structure for our cash generative and that one of our balance and diversity in our portfolio, global business.
The particular overriding responsibilities must be to our globally leading market position organisational design weve use this cash wisely.
The balance we and the significant efforts of our implemented addresses the fact that strike is between ensuring the safety people all contributed to this.
we have to manage both geographies and soundness of our business, and product lines.
Experian serves investing for the future and returning What are the biggest challenges for clients across multiple geographies surpluses to shareholders.
and many of our growth opportunities past two years we have reduced our The big challenge now is to return are in fast-growing emerging markets, indebtedness, without letting up our business to the kind of growth so we draw our talent from a very on the investment that is so vital to rates we know were capable of.
Our diverse pool in order to best serve sustain our leadership position and major markets are showing signs of our customers, wherever they are.
The strength of stabilisation and recovery, but were We place great store on the strength our cash generation means we are not going to rely solely on this.
Were of our leadership team and on now in a position to enhance returns taking control of growth by focusing succession planning.
We always try to to shareholders and Im delighted that 8 our efforts on a series of high-impact promote from within and to encourage the Board has decided to do this by initiatives.
Firstly, were doing more mobility and a breadth of experience.
increasing our dividend payout ratio to expand our global reach into key Strong leadership is vital to the and introducing a share buyback.
successful delivery of our strategy, Secondly, were investing in world but we also depend on our peoples class data and analytics - its why strong sense of engagement with the organisations come to us and we wider business.
We listen hard and never lose sight of this.
And, finally, always act on the feedback we receive.
were making sure that our sales We want Experian to be a truly great teams and infrastructure are best in place to work.
class and that we continue to be the best possible partner to our clients.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction 5 How does Experian address its We have dedicated part of our What is it about Experian that social responsibilities?
corporate website to CR and publish makes you most proud?
We do this largely by building our CR performance alongside our I take most pride from the contribution social, ethical and environmental financials.
Recent employee surveys that Experian makes to the markets considerations into our everyday have revealed the importance that we serve.
In many ways, we provide business decisions.
Were trying to our people attach to Experians role the lubricant for economic growth - ensure that corporate responsibility, of corporate citizen and its one of the helping organisations to reach and or CR, becomes simply businessreasons why I take a personal lead on understand their customers, and as-usual for Experian.
enabling consumers and businesses past few years weve established to have access to the credit they need.
48 a comprehensive CR strategy The value we deliver to clients and and governance structure, and consumers is a very motivating force have identified six key areas of for all of us at Experian.
Experian has never been short of opportunities and, in many ways, the hard bit is ensuring we concentrate our efforts and resources on the best of these.
