12 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Chief Executives review Experian performed well in 2010, notwithstanding Don Robert Chief Executive the challenges presented by the global economic downturn.
Our organic revenue growth was 2%, we expanded our margins by 80 basis points to 24.4% and our Benchmark EPS grew by 8% to 67.1 US cents per ordinary share.
We also delivered another strong cash performance with free cash flow of US$818m, up 11%.
This meant that we ended the year Key trends Strategic priorities comfortably within our target gearing As we move forward, we see a number While global economic recovery range, at 1.8x adjusted net debt to of trends which will influence our will help our business, our goal is to EBITDA, including the current value performance over the coming year.
accelerate growth by creating new of the Serasa put option.
The strength market opportunities, building greater of this performance has enabled us Within financial services, we see scale and further cementing our global again to raise our full-year dividend, gradual recovery across many of leadership position.
Each year, we which is up 15% to 23.00 US cents per the developed markets in which we develop specific plans which set our ordinary share.
In key territories such as priorities and allow us to concentrate North America, unemployment rates our resources.
These plans are We were able to deliver this strong have started to level off, delinquency 8 executed within our strategic framework performance because of the balance rates are starting to fall, lenders are to focus on data and analytics, drive in our portfolio, the strength of our beginning to solicit new customers profitable growth and optimise capital market position and strong execution and small businesses are starting efficiency.
Our action plan is centred against our cost efficiency programme.
to look for funding to expand.
on taking control of growth through a We were especially pleased with the Experian has a key role to play in series of defined initiatives: outstanding performances across this recovery process, helping to Latin America and at Interactive, which restore confidence in the global retail Expanding our global reach helped to offset the drag effect of the banking system with our world-class Geographic expansion we see global economic recession.
data, analytics and software tools.
significant scope to take our existing credit and marketing products into Progress in the year included: Across the retail sector, we see fast-growing markets, for example consumer spending driving Brazil, India, China, South Africa and strong growth in emerging markets, improvement among retailers.
which now account for nearly one We also see a steady shift to more fifth of our revenue: targeted digital advertising channels Vertical expansion we are further and we are increasing our efforts repurposing our data and platforms an increased contribution from to benefit from this trend as client to build scale positions in new non-financial B2B verticals and the marketing budgets return.
verticals such as the public sector, consumer channel.
We now generate telecoms, utilities and US healthcare more than 60% of our revenue from And at Consumer Direct in North payments.
outside financial services: America, the new marketing strategy for freecreditscore.
com implemented New market channels we see a strong contribution from products from 1 April 2010 is progressing in opportunity to further expand in developed in the past five years, line with expectations.
We have had underpenetrated segments, such as which again accounted for over 20% recent dialogue with the Federal small and medium enterprises.
of Group revenue: and Trade Commission regarding our site, freecreditreport.
com, and we our cost efficiency programme, which have made further changes to this delivered savings ahead of plan.
site through the addition of consumer disclosures.
We remain vigilant regarding any regulatory changes that may affect our business and will adapt as needed.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 13 Delivering innovative data and analytics Debt funding We will commence a share buyback We are investing in our data sources, During the year, we started an 18 programme of around US$300m, to our platforms and our products across month programme to refinance our be implemented over the next twelve the globe to bring the fresh insights bank and bond facilities with an months, subject to free cash flow and innovation that our customers issuance in February 2010 of 500m and acquisition expenditure.
For example, we are benefiting Guaranteed notes at 4.75% due 2020, planned to repurchase an additional from recent addition of income data which was swapped into US dollars.
US$50m to satisfy employee share in our US consumer credit bureau: This programme will continue in the incentive plans.
The total share we are enhancing our products and year ending 31 March 2011, as we aim repurchase over the next twelve platforms in business information: to spread debt maturities and diversify months is therefore expected to be we are developing new analytics our sources of funding.
which will extend our fraud prevention cost of new funding sources is higher capabilities: we are introducing new than the funds being replaced and, as Dividend digital advertising services within a result, for the year ending 31 March For the year ended 31 March 2010, we our marketing business and we are 2011, our current expectation is that net have announced a second interim investing further behind the launch of interest expense will be in the range of dividend of 16.00 US cents per share.
49 ProtectMyID, our identity monitoring US$90-100m.
This gives a full-year dividend of tool for consumers.
23.00 US cents per share, 2.9 times Capital strategy covered by Benchmark EPS, and up Executing superior sales We have recently undertaken a re- 15% as we transition to our increased and operations evaluation of our capital policy and dividend payout.
The second interim Growth in our business will be delivered payout ratios in light of the investment dividend will be paid on 23 July 2010 by our people and we are investing needs of the business, the reduction in to shareholders on the register at the in our business to sustain our high total net debt and ongoing strength in close of business on 25 June 2010. performance sales culture and to cash generation.
We remain committed maximise efficiency across to a prudent but efficient balance sheet Changes to external our operations.
consistent with our desire to retain a reporting calendar strong investment grade credit rating.
We have undertaken a review of These initiatives, along with targeted, Our target gearing ratio, net debt financial reporting frequency in order infill acquisitions that are tightly adjusted for the current value of the to bring greater efficiency to our coupled to the core, are central to our put option over the minority shares in external reporting.
Henceforth, we will goal of delivering strong, sustainable Serasa, divided by EBITDA, will remain issue financial updates on a quarterly returns for our shareholders.
This brings us into line with reporting frequencies across our peer Net debt We anticipate that continuing strength group.
Going forward, our financial Net debt was reduced by US$483m in our cash generation, as well as 160 calendar will include the Q1 Interim to US$1,627m at 31 March 2010, receipts from the FARES disposal, Management Statement in July, the after funding capital expenditure of will result in net debt being below half-yearly report in November, the US$314m, and net share purchases our gearing targets.
Accordingly, it Q3 Interim Management Statement of US$114m by employee trusts and in is our current intention to adjust our in January and the preliminary respect of employee share incentive distribution policies to shareholders as results in May.
We aim to accelerate plans.
In addition, there was a net follows: the reporting of our half-yearly and inflow of US$66m from disposals net of preliminary results starting in the year acquisitions.
As at 31 March 2010, the We intend to increase our dividend ending 31 March 2012. net debt to EBITDA gearing ratio was payout ratio over the next twelve 1.8x, which is at the lower end of our months.
By the time of the second Our people 1.75-2.0x adjusted target debt range.
interim dividend next year, we expect The strength of our performance is The gearing ratio is adjusted to include to have dividend cover based on down to the outstanding achievements the put option over the 30% minority Benchmark EPS of around 2.5 times of our people.
It is reflective of a terrific stake in Serasa, valued at US$661m at on an annual basis: our previous effort by our employees, in the face of 31 March 2010. policy was to have cover on this basis some tough market conditions.
I salute of at least three times.
their dedication and commitment and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their singlemindedness and strength of purpose over the past year.
Total growth at constant exchange rates 2.
Central Activities comprise costs of central corporate functions 3.
Discontinuing activities include UK account processing and other smaller discontinuing activities 4.
EBIT margin is for continuing business only, excluding FARES.
Further analysis can be in the financial review on page 45 Reconciliation of EBIT continuing operations EBIT 2010 2009 Year ended 31 March US$m US$m EBIT from continuing operations 991 939 Net interest 81 96 Benchmark PBT 910 843 Exceptional items 72 117 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 140 132 Goodwill adjustment - 1 Charges for demerger-related equity incentive plans 28 32 Financing fair value remeasurements 9 19 Tax expense on share of profits of associates - 2 Profit before tax 661 578 Group tax expense 17 84 Profit after tax for continuing operations 644 494 Benchmark EPS US cents 62.3 67.1 Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 46.8 59.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 1,015 1,013 See page 45 for analysis of revenue and EBIT by business segment and page 46 for reconciliation of revenue and EBIT by operating segment See the financial review on pages 44 and 45, and note 4 to the Group financial statements on pages 100 and 101, for definitions of non-GAAP measures Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 15 E Ex xp pa an nd o d ou ur g r gl lo ob ba al r l re ea ac ch h D fide el li iv five er i r in nn no ov va at ti iv five d e da at ta a a an nd a d an na al ly yt ti ic cs s E Ex xe ec cu ut te s e su up pe er ri io or s r sa al le es a s an nd o d op pe er ra at ti io on ns s unDErstanDing customEr bEhaviour a t na tional griD The capabilities that Experian has developed to support the financial services marketplace are increasingly being applied to other industry sectors, such as energy, telecommunications and healthcare, as companies seek to gain a better understanding of their customers.
National Grid is an international energy company, delivering power to more than 7.5 million businesses and homes in the US.
At the start of the economic downturn in 2008, National Grid saw an unprecedented shift in customer behaviour, with customers who had previously never missed a payment now suddenly behind.
It required a new approach to managing past-due customers: one that would enable collections actions to be matched to individual circumstances.
National Grid implemented Experians Portfolio Management Package, which uses behavioural scoring to measure the relative risk of customers in arrears and determine the best way to treat each one.
Champion challenger techniques allow these strategies to be constantly tested and refined.
Tracey McCarthy, Vice President, Customer Financial Services at National Grid, said: When we started this project, we wanted a smart tool.
More importantly, we are serving our customers better.
