"Directors Report Business Review - Chief Executive Officers Review Positive Progress ""Against the background of a slow economic recovery we are beginning to see the benefits from our enhanced capability and capacity. """
Mark Abrahams - Chief Executive Officer INTRODUCTION AND STRATEGY indicators are complemented by quantitative measurements including Our strategy continues to be to increase market share and target new value customer surveys and on time in full performance.
We concentrate on growing those businesses where we already demonstrate leadership through our skills in applications, As a diversified group, Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from design, materials technology and dedication to customer service as well thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a few hundred grammes of as by carefully planned acquisitions.
This common aim, across a wide metallic and polymeric biomaterials.
Not only do we use large volumes of range of industrial markets, gives Fenner a solid basis for long-term some materials, we also work closely with selected suppliers to ensure growth, stability and shareholder value.
Fenner is proud to be a world class that our customers benefit from the latest technical developments in global manufacturer, with a strong commitment to health and safety, materials and processes.
The majority of these relationships are in the operating in key territories in established and emerging markets.
normal course of business, ensuring quality, continuity of supply and reasonable commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and usually relating to During the year under review, Fenner has made good progress rebuilding technical developments, relationships are formally documented.
its business to levels greater than seen before the downturn.
This is in part Operations remain vigilant to potential problems in the supply chain to due to market recovery but is more importantly due to increased market ensure continued stability and continuity of supply.
penetration and growth in share from new developments and products.
The investments made over the last few years have started to demonstrate In line with our strategic aims, we acquired a second medical business, a payback and we believe that they have only just begun to show their true MRI Medical, in July 2010 as a step towards Fenners medium term goal worth.
of building a Medical Division with a broad platform of complementary technologies.
MRI Medical is a polymer device development and The Fenner Group consists of two Divisions: the Conveyor Belting CB manufacturing company focused solely on the medical industry.
Through Division and the Advanced Engineered Products AEP Division.
innovative designs and modern manufacturing techniques, MRI Medical leads the industry in the production of cutting-edge silicone based Both CB and AEP provide high quality, comprehensive, whole life value devices.
Further investment in the medical businesses to broaden the products for their customers and both have a strong brand and reputation technical capability and product platform is seen as a key strategy for in their chosen markets.
These characteristics are considered to have these businesses and continues to be progressed as a priority.
Whilst not been the key to the success of the Group over its long history.
Customer having a significant impact to date, the potential changes in US healthcare satisfaction is of importance to all business units, who ensure they are are creating some uncertainty, however demographic trends will meeting their customer expectations which are specific to each market.
inexorably increase demand over the next 10 to 20 years.
Experienced sales teams maintain close contact with customers, providing feedback on expectations and performance.
These qualitative 4 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK industry and are not aligned to coal and iron ore have seen the weak market conditions continuing.
Our strategy of placing our service Conveyor Belting operations in regions of significant future mining growth enabled our The CB Division is a recognised world leader in the global conveyor product range and availability of belting to be aligned with the needs of belting market.
It manufactures heavyweight ply, solid woven and steel our major customers, ensuring that sales growth was achieved.
Following cord conveyor belting for mining, power generation and industrial the successful commissioning this year of our Kwinana plant and support applications and has growing service businesses, mainly in Australia and from domestic customers, we see steel cord belting and the increased the US, which install, monitor and service conveyor systems for our focus on associated product sales remaining the largest contributors to mining customers.
sales growth for Australia in the coming year.
After the major investments of recent years, the focus of 2010 was to Based in New South Wales in Australia and West Virginia in the US, the integrate the acquisitions, improve manufacturing efficiencies and exploit conveyor diagnostics business is looking promising with the success of the capabilities of the new plant and machinery whilst ramping up the rEscan 24 7 units and the acceptance of the BMS1000 rip detection production to meet improved demand.
Both of the systems are being commissioned around the globe, with units installed in the UK, South America, North America, South Africa and Throughout the year under review, as illustrated by the McCloskey graph of course Australia.
These product and service innovations help to see figure 1, energy coal prices firmed, fuelled by Asian demand.
Prices differentiate the CB operations from their competitors.
for metallurgical coal approximately 15% of total demand and iron ore used to produce steel have risen more strongly.
During 2010, these Fenner Dunlop Americas has made solid improvements in the financial steelmaking commodities have moved from annual contracts to quarterly year.
Production efficiency showed positive improvements and our new pricing which, to date, has worked in favour of the suppliers.
The almost investments at Port Clinton and Lavonia have reached expected universal moratorium on investment in new projects across all extractive operational performance in terms of output and efficiency.
In the last industries has eased, however the delay may result in supply side quarter of the year under review, Fenner Dunlop Americas achieved constraints over the next 12 to 18 months, particularly for coal.
average monthly sales of $20m of belting.
Overall performance in 2010 was a strong recovery from the previous year.
With the exception of those parts of the operations which serve the construction markets, CB experienced positive trading conditions In the Americas, the coal mining industry has continued to maintain a throughout the year under review.
All the CB operations experienced relatively high level of output, underpinned by market pricing and demand volatile and, in the second half, rising raw material prices.
Coal inventories have fallen throughout the year and are now at magnitude of the cost increases, we have had to pass these on to our historically normal levels and production for the coming year is forecast customers.
to be steady, supported by exports to China and India.
Demand in the North American domestic market is expected to be stable.
From 31 Our operations also faced a variety of other challenges including the December 2009, conveyor belts installed in underground mines in the US effects of the lack of liquidity on customers and suppliers, competitive need to be manufactured to a new, higher standard of fire resistance, threats and delays in new projects.
MSHA 30CFR14 which introduced the Belt Evaluation Laboratory Test B. E. L. T..
The Fenner Dunlop Fireboss range, which meets the B. E. L. T. The Australian business continued its growth year on year.
Iron ore and requirements with enhanced durability, has been well received.
coal remain the main trading exports for the country and the biggest influences on the trading performance of our Australian CB business.
Both The industrial segment remained suppressed in the first half and started of these commodities continue to forecast a positive outlook.
In 2010, to pick up in the second half based upon the current slow construction Australian production of coal increased by 7% and iron ore production market.
Full market recovery is unlikely to be rapid.
started to restock moderately in recent months, indicating that demand for belting and services can be expected to steadily improve in the coming The Australian operations at a national level have continued to perform year.
The industrial markets which are reliant on the construction NW EUROPE - STEAM COAL MARKER Sept 06 Sept 07 Sept 08 Sept 09 Sept 10 figure 1 MONTHLY AVERAGE F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 5 Directors Report Business Review - Chief Executive Officers Review continued Our Americas service business is primarily focused on coal mining projects which in turn limits our opportunities in steel cord belt in the although our Chilean operation services copper in the Antofagasta region.
All other products continue to perform well.
As coal production continues at a reasonably high level of output, we are cautiously optimistic about the market demand for services but Advanced Engineered Products competition is expected to increase.
Poaching of skilled service The AEP Division is divided into five product group businesses which are technicians by mining companies and competitors is on the rise and managed on a global basis.
These businesses are: remains a risk to the service operations.
Diversification into new territories Fenner Precision, which is a leading manufacturer and supplier of and market segments will reduce the over dependency on the coal mining performance critical polymer components to the office automation industry.
In addition, the longwall mine at Bowie Energy was taken out of industry: service and negatively impacted our Loadout Service operation.
In Fenner Drives, which designs, manufactures and sells an extensive anticipation of this, new markets were targeted and our facilities range of bespoke solutions for mechanical power transmission and management business was successful in expanding their services to motion transfer applications: Signal Peak Energy of Billings, Montana and greatly contributed to the The manufacture and supply of silicone and EPDM speciality hoses receipt of an order for over $5m that included conveyor belting, cleaners, for the diesel engine, truck, bus and off-road equipment OEM market, idlers and drives for a newly commissioned mine.
"trading as James Dawson: Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies ""FAST"", which comprises In Europe, at Dunlop Conveyor Belting, based in Drachten in the performance critical hydraulic seals for the global fluid power Netherlands, there has been some recovery in the second half specifically industry, trading as Hallite and bespoke sealing products for process in OEM related business."
The construction industry however remained applications including oil and gas, electronics, pumps, valves, weak, resulting in relatively low volumes in the distribution segment.
compressors and aerospace applications, trading as CDI EGC: and Export markets in French Africa, South America and the Middle East Medical, comprising Secant Medical, a subsidiary of Prodesco, a continue to be strong.
Political instability in some of these markets gives leading developer and manufacturer of custom-engineered opportunities as well as threats.
The Drachten business acquired a small biomedical textile structures for medical devices and Prodesco, service company in the Milan region and opened new service units in which also provides specialist industrial fabrics.
The medical Barcelona, Sicily and Casablanca: this is in addition to the Dunlop Service business also includes newly acquired MRI Medical which leads the operation we already have in the Netherlands.
industry in the production of cutting-edge silicone based medical devices.
The solid woven businesses have performed well this year, largely due to high demand from both coal and potash producers in their target markets.
All operations within AEP aim to provide high value added solutions to Significant raw material price increases required careful margin their customers needs using advanced polymeric materials, expertise in management.
Additional press capacity has been added to the UK application design, effective manufacturing design skills and timely operation to facilitate growth in the Russian and other former Soviet Union delivery.
Expansion into further mission critical applications is a key part markets which continue to grow despite liquidity problems.
Spare of the AEP strategy as this supports the high added value, niche nature of capacity in India has been used to help meet demand elsewhere including the product range across the various AEP businesses and provides added the US where we have a B. E. L. T. compliant solid woven PVC product.
protection against the full effects of economic volatility.
In India and China, the solid woven businesses continue to introduce high In the autumn of 2009, most of the businesses which make up AEP were performance high tensile belts to appropriate select customers.
In China, still experiencing subdued customer demand at similar levels to the we are seeing our competitors following us into the high tensile belting second half of the previous financial year, signifying that channel market, however we are confident that we can continue to grow with our destocking had come to an end but that there was little growth in superior product technology and flexibility.
The Indian operation underlying economic activity.
The exception to this rule was the medical continues to source these high tensile products from our UK plant, leaving businesses where revenues were relatively unaffected by the recession spare capacity which will be used to facilitate a stronger export offering.
and the Chinese market where the Divisions business continued to In South Africa, the uncertainty in mining mineral rights is delaying new expand.
All businesses maintained the close scrutiny on costs which had 6 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 been adopted during the worst of the recessionary period.
However, as the UK and a presence in Shanghai in China.
The primary markets of this year progressed, increasing demand levels arose from market penetration business are self service, ATM, consumer and commercial printing and and share gains as well as a slow improvement in underlying market specialist engineering, all of which have or will return to growth albeit conditions.
This required each business to add staff judiciously in both from a lower level.
Fenner Precision also saw a second half recovery but direct and indirect positions.
A net total of 301 people were hired but, only in the US and Asia: other markets have now stabilised and margins despite the rapid ramp-up and short-term inefficiencies this can cause, have benefited from lower organisational costs.
operating margins improved steadily through the year as throughput increased.
During the year, FAST experienced growing demand for hydraulic equipment which increased from the very low level of the prior year, with There is general agreement that inventory has been removed from every India, China and South America showing the most progress.
A further link of the supply chain over the last 18 months.
It is now apparent that improvement in the share of the target seals market was achieved and, in many OEM customers and channel partners plan to rely upon addition, some customers restocked to satisfy their markets.
Demand for sophisticated and responsive supply chains to avoid replacing that seals used in the oil and gas industry is directly proportional to the inventory.
The AEP businesses have already benefited from this trend, number of drilling rigs in use at any time.
By the end of the financial year, winning market share from weaker competitors in the face of extreme the number of active rigs had returned to pre-downturn levels.
In addition, volatility in customer demand patterns, signing long-term supply demand for well service pump packing had improved due to the agreements with major OEM customers and speeding up transactions development of the shale gas fields in North America which more than through on-line, paperless transactions with major channel partners.
offset a decline in down hole sales following the deep water drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico.
Overall sales to oil and gas producers The James Dawson hose business was the first of the AEP businesses to be improved steadily to reach a higher volume than prior to the downturn.
impacted by the global downturn as its OEM customer base experienced a The strategic aim of FAST continues to be to use the most advanced severe contraction in the construction industry, exacerbated by destocking materials and technology to supply better solutions for performance in the supply chain.
James Dawson responded to the slow-down by critical applications ahead of its competitors.
FAST continues to expand controlling costs, reducing the work force and consolidating its satellite its global presence, maintain its reputation for high quality products and operation to the main facility in Lincoln, thereby streamlining production and selectively broaden its product range to satisfy new market opportunities.
This business experienced a dramatic resurgence in demand in the second half but was able to ramp-up capacity The medical businesses, MRI Medical and Secant Medical, were not to meet customers requirements: second half revenues were over one impacted as sharply by the economic downturn as other businesses.
third higher than the first half.
However, in common with the entire US healthcare industry, they were subjected to a period of great uncertainty during the year as the US With a difficult start to the year, Fenner Drives retained tight spending and Government deliberated over the proposed overhaul of the US healthcare cash controls but also continued to invest in growth, including sales system.
Although legislation was ultimately passed, there is still lingering reorganisation in Europe and development of a Middle Eastern presence.
uncertainty as everyone tries to figure out the ramifications of the Just after the middle of the year, there was a measurable upswing in legislation in the face of the mid-term elections.
From a business point of demand and, as growth accelerated, we responded effectively allowing us view, the main effects so far have been: a suppression of investment in to take market share from less responsive and ill prepared competitors.
innovation by both venture capitalists and established medical device We were also able to take advantage of our low cost structure and regain companies: an increasing scrutiny of the cost effectiveness of proposed margin.
Customer focus has moved from price to service: to the point therapies devices during the development phase in anticipation of future where the only successful answer to customer enquiries is, Yes, we have Comparative Effectiveness studies and increased costs and lead-times all the parts you require in stock.
Shall we ship the order out this associated with tighter US Food and Drugs Administration regulation.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty, Secant Medicals strategy was successful in generating more than 25% growth during the year.
Fenner Precision is now a truly global business with one sales group and three manufacturing plants: Manheim and Buffalo in the US, Lincoln in the F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 7 Directors Report Business Review - Chief Executive Officers Review continued Responding to climate change represents a continuing challenge to all working environment extends to those employees of other companies businesses but it also has presented a number of sales opportunities for working on our behalf as well as customers, visitors and neighbours who AEP.
Fenner Drives is developing a niche business to improve the energy may be affected by our activities.
So it is with deep regret that we have to efficiency of commercial buildings and reduce the carbon footprint of the report that there was a fatality of an employee at a customer facility in Nevada operators.
Fenner Precision has successfully used skills which were gained in the US.
Senior management was on site within 24 hours and, in addition in the offshore oil industry to develop solutions for the installation of offshore to organising help and support to his family and colleagues, initiated a wind turbines.
James Dawson has developed performance critical products thorough and independent investigation.
As required by local legislation, which enhance the safety and reliability of the electrical systems in wind OSHA was promptly notified but has yet to present their findings.
A number of early stage development projects are underway for various other renewable energy programmes, including wave energy.
That growth brings with it greater responsibilities and enhanced expectations from our customers, employees and SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK neighbours.
To achieve our goals, we need to embed rigour and We look forward with optimism as we start the new year with our businesses continuous improvement into the way we approach health and safety.
performing well and demonstrating the ability to grow as we emerge from Fenner looks for, and promotes, health and safety as a key element in the the economic downturn.
We have a highly motivated team of people in culture of each of its businesses.
The Health & Safety Management place and it is the ability of this group that is key to Fenner's success.
System Framework The Framework, launched in January 2009, provides structure and guidance to all operations, irrespective of size, to EMPLOYEES deliver outstanding performance.
The unique culture and autonomy of our In the early months of the year under review, significant uncertainty operations is preserved by The Framework which is a set of 89 remained and a proportion of the workforce continued to participate in Expectations which help individuals, business units and new acquisitions short-time working, salary sacrifice or temporary lay-off programmes.
As understand what is required of them, allowing local management the the outlook improved these schemes fell away: followed by call-backs freedom to develop their systems to deliver the required performance.
and judicious recruiting, where volumes required, without losing the benefit of realigning our cost base.
By the end of the year, overall In order to implement The Framework, each business unit initially assessed employee numbers rose to 4246 including the acquisition of MRI Medical its current level of compliance with the Expectations, taking into account which added 120 employees to the Group.
their operational risk profile and the applicable regulatory requirements.
The unit then produced an improvement plan which can incorporate and build Productivity is a key factor to success.
Due to the diversity of our on their existing health and safety management programmes.
Progress operations, productivity for the Group as a whole is best measured by total against those plans is monitored and subject to independent assessment.
In the final quarter of the calendar year, the improvement plans are updated, reviewed and approved for the coming year.
The Sales per Employee graph see figure 2 shows that as the worlds economies have returned to growth so have our sales per employee.
This Given the challenges set by the 89 Expectations and performance to date, also demonstrates that on average our rate of recruitment to meet the it is envisioned that our well established operations will take two to three increased volumes has been at a rate slower than the rate of recovery.
years to fully implement The Framework and up to five years for some of our acquired businesses.
All our businesses have processes that require high levels of proficiency and technical expertise and Fenner continues to benefit from a skilled and An increasing number of our employees work on customers' sites and job committed workforce in both our acquired and existing businesses.
We safety assessments are mandatory prior to work commencing.
For these acknowledge the importance of our employees contribution to the businesses, our health and safety management systems are a significant performance of the Group.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Accidents and near misses are recorded and reviewed operationally and The Group is absolutely committed to ensuring that all employees can work safe systems of work updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost time safely at all times.
This overriding commitment to provide a safe and secure are reported through divisional management to the main Board.
The SALES PER EMPLOYEE 145 140 135 130 125 120 115 110 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 YEAR figure 2 8 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 000 process for sharing the details of an incident and the measures taken A small number of business units continue to assess their carbon footprint around Group operations to prevent similar accidents elsewhere has been to evaluate if some meaningful actions can result from such measures and formalised and extended to include near misses and guidance on wider to prepare for, or comply with, local requirements.
Although within the UK health issues with a business impact.
"and other jurisdictions a local consensus is developing, carbon footprint estimates are not yet a valid, consistent measure comparable across the The absolute number of lost time incidents ""LTIs"" is the KPI chosen to wide range of sizes, technologies and locations of the Groups units."
measure the success of our health and safety policy.
The selection of an However, we have now established a baseline for all energy sources used absolute measure across the whole Group, which does not reflect changes in manufacturing at a level of detail which will enable the introduction of in employee numbers or hours worked, demonstrates our belief that an appropriate standard when identified.
everyone who works for Fenner should return home in the same fit and healthy state in which they came to work.
We are delighted to report that In the UK, Fenner has registered, as required, under the Carbon Reduction our LTIs have fallen to 67.
The Lost Time Incidents graph see figure 3 Commitment scheme CRC, a key component of the Climate Change shows the results over the last seven years.
Also shown by the black line Act.
The CRC is a UK based carbon trading scheme affecting large is the Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR which is the number organisations that commences in 2010.
We have undertaken site surveys of LTIs per 200,000 hours worked.
at our major UK manufacturing facilities to determine the energy baseline for the trading scheme and were successful in our application to join a Even with The Framework maintaining focus on health and safety, Climate Change Agreement, hosted by the British Plastics Federation, delivering continuous improvement year on year is challenging, which will identify energy saving potential in each location and draw up a particularly as our operations respond to increasing demand with higher plan for implementation, providing both cost reductions and an effective output, additional working hours and new staff.
derogation from the complexities of the CRC.
ENVIRONMENT In addition to our environmental responsibilities, there are sound The Group is committed to identifying and assessing the risks of pollution commercial reasons to minimise and recycle waste.
As a manufacturing and other forms of environmental impairment arising out of its activities.
group, the obvious focus is on raw materials as the reduction opportunities We seek to reduce our impact on the environment to the lowest practical are well known and, for the residual waste, recycling is well understood.
levels and with each new investment, ensure that we exemplify the best We are working to develop consistent and comparable reporting to capture contemporary practice in respect of the environment.
At Board level, the data on all significant waste generated throughout the Group.
Chief Executive Officer has specific responsibility for the development of policy and management systems.
Responsibility for environmental Air quality can be adversely affected by some of our processes and we matters in each operating division is designated to the senior Managing have implemented systems to ensure this does not happen.
A number of Director and, at a local level, to a senior manager on each site.
Each locations use processes which involve a range of chemicals which are senior Managing Director is required to report to the Board on a regular generically referred to as volatile organic compounds VOCs.
These basis and to advise the Board immediately of any environmental risks or chemicals are subject to strict regulation, with their storage and use other incidents likely to be significant to the business.
No new risks or carefully controlled.
In addition to minimising any emissions to air of incidents were reported to the Board in the last year.
VOCs, potential substitutes are assessed as soon as they become commercially available.
All acquisitions are subject to appropriate environmental due diligence which is specifically extended to include environmental management The majority of the Groups businesses have occupied their sites for many systems and operational compliance.
years, some for over 100 years: the Group therefore recognises and manages risk of exposure to environmental legacy issues.
Compliance with applicable regulatory standards is a minimum which is subject to official audit: larger facilities validate their management Fenner continues to be committed to undertaking regular reviews of its systems by independent audit.
Progress continues on environmental activities and the workings of the environmental policy to ensure that it is management systems and we now have four accredited sites and six other comprehensive and effective, identifying objectives and standards that will sites actively implementing ISO 14001. enable a demonstrable continuous improvement in environmental matters.
LOST TIME INCIDENTS 4.5 LTI LTIFR 120 4.0 100 3.5 3.0 80 2.5 60 2.0 1.5 40 1.0 20 0.5 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 YEAR figure 3 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 9 LTIs LTIFR Directors Report Business Review - Chief Executive Officers Review continued PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES account of the substantive publicised research in evaluating its strategic Fenner considers the following to be the most significant risk factors, but projects.
The International Energy Agency 450 Scenario sets out a the risk factors listed do not necessarily comprise all those associated policy framework and the impact on power generation to deliver a with Fenner and are not set out in any particular order of priority.
long-term greenhouse gas concentration of 450ppm CO2 equivalent, less than half the level that would be emitted under current policies.
Even Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Fenner or that under the 450 Scenario, coal fired power generation will increase over the Fenner currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on next 20 years.
Fluctuations in foreign currency Strength of key markets Due to the global nature of the Group, Fenner derives a large proportion As expected the economic recovery is proving to be slow and some of its revenues from overseas and hence has an exposure to foreign markets remain weak, particularly for Western economies where some currency fluctuations.
Whilst the Group seeks to reduce this risk through commentators believe the spectre of a double dip recession remains.
formal contracts and borrowings, adverse movements in foreign However, Fenner has and will continue to benefit from underlying volume currencies, particularly the US dollar relative to sterling, could lead to growth in energy markets, particularly oil, gas and coal, and a recovery in material adverse movements in reported earnings.
Although Fenner has successfully traded through previous cycles, a substantial downturn in one or more of these key Competition markets could have a material adverse impact on the business.
Fenner Products are available which compete directly or indirectly with the continues to look for opportunities that are counter cyclical to help Groups products.
New technology, changing commercial circumstances balance out any market downturn.
and new entrants to the markets in which the Group operates may adversely affect the Groups business.
One source of competition comes Fluctuations in raw material costs and availability from the low cost economies but whilst these can compete on price, they Volatility in raw material costs continues to be a key risk for the Group as cannot always compete on quality or service.
Aggressive or predatory there is a direct impact on the costs of production and managing pricing from competitors could lead to a reduction in margin or volume.
The Group continues to manage raw material costs.
For example, where materials are a significant cost of sale, we have Dependence on key personnel long-term supply agreements and arrangements which are driven by the The future success of Fenner is dependent on the continued services of constraints of the markets into which we sell.
However, increases in such key personnel.
Although the Group has succession plans and seeks to costs could have a material adverse impact upon the Groups profitability develop and promote from within, the loss of the services of the executive and cash flow if such increases cannot be recovered through increased officers of the Group and other key employees could have a material sales prices.
adverse affect on the business.
In addition, liquidity problems can adversely affect the availability of Fluctuations of revenues, expenses and operating results materials with limited sources of supply.
All business units have been Fenners revenues, expenses and operating results could vary from period assessing their exposure and, where necessary, have approved, or to period as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside continue to work on approving, alternative sources.
These factors, which are actively monitored and considered in all relevant management decisions, include general Climate change economic conditions, adverse movements in interest rates, conditions Although negotiations for the successor to the Kyoto Protocol are specific to the energy markets, seasonal trends in revenues, capital currently in a stand-off between the rich and the poor nations, increasing expenditure, other costs and the introduction of new products by Fenner media attention is being given to climate change and the political will to or its competitors.
act is, lead by Europe, slowly gaining momentum.
Fenner takes full 1 0 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 In response to a changing competitive environment, Fenner may elect from time to time to make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups revenues, results of operations and financial condition.
Employee benefit schemes The Group has a number of employee benefit schemes, including defined benefit post-retirement schemes and US healthcare programmes.
These schemes expose the Group to changes in interest rates, other investment returns and inflation as well as the effects of the longevity of scheme members.
Developments in medical science and changes in healthcare management can significantly increase the cost of maintaining benefits in the future.
Appropriate financial and legal advice is taken on the rules and funding of all such schemes.
Changes in regulatory oversight have resulted in increased costs and management time without any real benefits for our employees.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this document, including those under the captions Performance and Outlook, Summary and Outlook and Principal Risks and Uncertainties, constitute forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Fenner, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: growth in the energy markets, general economic conditions and the business environment.
Mark Abrahams Chief Executive Officer F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 1 1
