Ferrexpo plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement Introduction We are pleased to report that for the year ended 31 December 2010, Ferrexpo responded to increased iron ore demand and prices with record production, record sales volumes and robust cost control.
These factors underpinned the highest EBITDA recorded in the Groups history of US$585 million compared to US$138 million in 2009.
In 2009, Ferrexpos priority was to conserve cash and to protect margins by producing and selling at near full capacity levels throughout the period.
As industry fundamentals recovered in 2010, Ferrexpo was well placed to benefit from higher prices as it continued to produce at full capacity.
The Groups increased cash generation and profitability allowed it to recommence its capital investment programme to further develop growth opportunities.
The Board approved, in November 2010, US$647 million of capital expenditure as part of an investment programme to increase significantly the quantity and quality of its production.
This initial phase is focused on achieving first ore at the Ferrexpo Yeristovskoye Mine FYM, extending the life of the Ferrexpo Poltava Mine FPM as well as on increasing the quality of the Groups pellet output.
Ferrexpos Board believes the Groups resource base is one of the largest in the world with estimated iron ore resources of over 20 billion tonnes.
This will support steady production growth while low cost mining facilities and integrated infrastructure from mine to rail, river and port means that the Group is well placed to deliver sustainable value to shareholders, employees and its country of operation throughout the commodities cycle.
Summary of results The Companys sales volumes increased 8% to 9.7 million tonnes of pellets 2009: 9 million tonnes.
The Group achieved significant price increases throughout the year compared with 2009.
These higher sales volumes and prices saw Group revenues almost double to US$1.3 billion 2009: US$649 million.
The Group produced at full capacity throughout the period which allowed for full absorption of the fixed cost base.
Together these factors resulted in an increase in EBITDA of over four fold to US$585 million 2009: US$138 million.
Group profit after tax increased 500% to US$425 million 2009: US$71 million.
Operating cash flow for the year improved significantly and as a result net debt reduced by US$153 million to US$104 million 2009: US$258 million.
As of 31 December 2010 the Group had cash balances of US$320 million compared with US$12 million as of 31 December 2009.
Pricing Environment and Strategy In 2010, European steel mills recovered from the lows of the 2009 downturn while Chinese iron ore requirements Ferrexpo plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 continued to underpin world demand.
The reduction of ramp up of the Yeristovskoye deposit, which will increase capacity by the major iron ore pellet suppliers during 2009 the Groups pellet production, allowing the Group to proved an ideal scenario for pellet price recovery in 2010. increase its exports to key Asian markets.
The iron ore pricing methodology, however, adjusted The Group made further investments in logistics during the throughout the year as the industry moved from an annual year.
It purchased 300 rail cars bringing the Companys global benchmark pricing system, which covered the entire total holding at 31 December 2010 to over 900.
In February fragmented steel industry, to shorter-term individual pricing 2011 Ferrexpo signed contracts to acquire an additional negotiations with steel mills.
400 rail cars over the next year with an option to purchase a further 600.
Purchase of these additional rail cars should Currently in the global iron ore market, there are a number ensure near self sufficiency and full rail car availability for of pricing methodologies being applied depending on pellet transportation to the Ukrainian border as well as a geography and customer.
In 2010, Ferrexpo agreed a tariff discount from the railway authorities of over 8%.
mixture of pricing arrangements with its customers including quarterly and six monthly pricing agreements.
As In December 2010 Ferrexpo acquired Vienna-based the new pricing mechanisms are increasingly based on Helogistics, one of the largest inland waterway shorter time periods, Ferrexpo believes there is likely to be transportation companies in Europe.
It transports iron ore increased pricing volatility.
as well as other bulk cargos, mainly by barge, along the Danube and Rhine rivers from Ukraine and Rotterdam to various locations in Northern, Central and Eastern Europe.
Industry fundamentals recovered in 2010, and This includes transportation of Ferrexpo pellets to core Ferrexpo was well placed to benefit from customers in Central Europe.
Helogistics will enable the Group to further secure the supply chain, improving higher prices as it continued to produce at full service to existing customers as well as provide further access to markets throughout Europe, enhancing capacity.
The Groups increased cash Ferrexpos presence as the regional market leader in iron generation and profitability allowed it to ore pellet supply.
recommence its capital investment In general, Ferrexpo believes that a developed programme to further develop growth logistics infrastructure is essential in high volume bulk commodity markets like iron ore.
It is therefore further opportunities.
expanding its logistics infrastructure ahead of planned production growth.
Ferrexpo will continue to focus on maximising prices relative to its competitors based on value in use to the In 2010, over 90% of the Groups sales volumes, from customer.
Ferrexpo believes that its geographic proximity own ore, were based on long-term volume framework to key steel markets represents an attractive alternative to agreements compared with circa 70% in 2009.
It is the major seaborne suppliers due to the lower costs of Ferrexpos ongoing strategy to allocate approximately 10% transporting pellets over a shorter distance from Ukraine.
of sales to potential new customers, especially first class Asian steel mills, through trial spot cargos ahead of its Marketing and logistics strategy planned Yeristovskoye mine expansion.
Ferrexpos logistics strategy is to manage and control as much of the delivery chain as possible.
This includes Production further developing the Groups port and barge facilities FPM has been producing iron ore pellets continuously for to allow for CFR delivery to customers in Asia and the last 30 years through the Soviet administration, the Western Europe.
fall of the Berlin wall, Ukrainian independence and several Ukrainian governments.
Ferrexpo already has a significant logistics cost advantage for delivery of pellets via rail and barge direct to customers In 2010, the mine produced record levels of pellets in Central and Eastern Europe.
The port terminal on the operating at full capacity throughout the period.
In Black Sea of TIS-Ruda, an associated company of the September 2010, FPM achieved the highest monthly pellet Group, provides independent access to the seaborne production since 1987, while in October 2010 FPM markets in Asia as well as to markets in Turkey and the produced the highest monthly output of 65% Fe pellets Middle East.
The TIS-Ruda port enables Ferrexpo to diversify its In total, production increased by 14% in 2010 to customer mix, avoiding dependence on any one customer approximately 10 million tonnes of pellets compared with group for pricing and product demand.
Ferrexpo is looking 8.8 million tonnes of pellets produced in 2009. to further develop its ship loading capabilities ahead of the Ferrexpo plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Production from own ore increased 5% to 9.0 million tonnes 2009: 8.6 million tonnes while processing of third Our strategy explained party concentrate increased substantially to meet higher demand.
The Group produces a mix of 62% and 65% Fe pellets.
Of Develop our vast unexploited the total 10 million tonnes of pellets produced, 49% were 01 higher grade 65% Fe pellets in line with the proportion of resources starting with the 65% Fe pellet production in 2009.
Yeristovskoye deposit achieving The higher production levels achieved illustrate the benefits first ore in 2013. of continuous improvements in production efficiencies as well as the sustainability of the Groups operations given the reduced levels of capital investment in 2009 and 2010.
Expand our high quality 02 customer base Ferrexpo Costs The Board believes Ferrexpo is one of the lowest cost allocates approximately 10% of pellet producers in the world on a FOB basis.
The Group aims to reduce costs within its control by at least 1% to 2% sales to potential new customers per annum principally through increased output and through trial spot cargos.
efficiency enhancements achieved through the Business Improvement Programme BIP.
Since the inception of the BIP in 2006, cumulative productivity gains have saved Maintain a low cost of production approximately US$5.3 per tonne of pellets produced, or US$48 million on a cumulative basis to 31 December 2010.
03 and a high operating efficiency according to Metalytics Not all costs are directly within Ferrexpos control, such as gas and electricity tariffs.
The Group is investigating Ferrexpo is the third lowest pellet managing these exposures, most likely through producer on a global FOB basis.
acquisitions and partnerships which can secure raw material supply.
Improve the quality of the The cost environment in 2010 was impacted by Ukrainian PPI inflation of 21% as well as cost increases associated 04 product mix by 2014 Ferrexpo with a stronger commodity price environment.
intends to produce all pellets as Approximately 70% of total operating costs, including 65% Fe from the current mix of freight, are denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia while all revenues are received in US dollars.
The Hryvnia has half 62% Fe & half 65% Fe pellets.
remained broadly stable on average in 2010 compared to 2009 at around UAH8 to the US dollar.
Enhance the Groups logistics Overall the average C1 cash cost of production was below US$40 per tonne for 2010.
This represented a circa 15% 05 capability ahead of the planned increase compared to the average 2009 C1 cash cost of increase in production output US$34 per tonne but this was, however, lower than the local inflation rate of approximately 21% for the period.
Maintain a strong balance sheet Ukraine Ukraine has recovered in many respects in 2010 compared 06 with low levels of gearing and to the hardships experienced in 2009.
There has been a high liquidity stable political environment since the presidential elections in February 2010.
In terms of economic recovery, the steel industry which is the largest contributor to the economy 1 increased production by an estimated 13% in 2010 2009: 1 1 negative 20%.
Overall, GDP growth in 2010 was 4% 1 compared to a decline of 15% in 2009.
Ferrexpo plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 As part of the continuing development of the Groups In general, continued political stability, growing credibility of capabilities, Ferrexpo appointed Brian Maynard as the Government fiscal policies, improving macroeconomic Group Chief Operating Officer in January 2011.
Brian has fundamentals and renewed IMF support have led to a worked extensively in the mining industry for the last 30 significant improvement of Ukraines credit rating.
During years and is already making a considerable impact on our 2010, Fitch and Standard & Poors raised Ukraines operations.
sovereign rating to B from Band B from B respectively with a stable outlook.
Corporate governance and social responsibility Ferrexpo has a balanced and experienced Board which Ferrexpo continues to regard Ukraine as a good place for maintains the highest standards of corporate governance business.
The Group is the largest employer in the town of throughout the Group and complies with the UK Komsomolsk and benefits from a well educated workforce Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
which is able to transfer its skills to the further development of the Groups resources.
The Boards Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee monitors the management of the Investing activities and funding Groups health, safety, environmental and community Ferrexpos capital expenditure projects are aimed at the programmes on a regular basis in line with best practice for expansion and upgrade of the existing mine and mining companies.
Safety is fundamental to the success of processing facilities and to unlock the considerable value in Ferrexpos future, and safety procedures are integral to the the Groups under exploited reserves and resources, culture of the Group.
Ferrexpo deeply regrets that Ivan starting with FYM.
Kharchenko, a machinery repairman, was fatally injured in the second half of the year in consequence of a failure to During the year, Ferrexpo spent US$167 million on capital observe the Groups safety standards.
In November the Board approved US$647 implementing measures to ensure that the Groups safety million of capital investment as part of the first stage of the controls are further improved going forward.
Outlook Dividend Following a successful 2010, the new financial year has It is the Boards view that cash generated by the Group started well with strong demand for Ferrexpos product.
should principally finance future growth projects and that The Group is, however, aware that it operates in a cyclical the Group should pay modest consistent dividends environment and will always look to mitigate any softening throughout the economic cycle.
The Directors therefore in demand across the industry through its broad, high recommend a final dividend in respect of profits generated quality customer base and established infrastructure for for the Group in 2010 of 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share serving seaborne and regional markets.
This should allow 2009 final dividend: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share for Ferrexpo to continue to produce at full capacity payment on 3 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at underpinning a strong financial performance for the rest of the close of business on 3 May 2011.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling with an election to receive US the year.
Michael Abrahams CBE DL People Chairman The Board would like to thank all the management and staff for their continued hard work and commitment Kostyantin Zhevago which formed the foundation for another year of Chief Executive Officer significant progress.
As previously announced, Simon Wandke the Group Marketing Officer resigned from the Company during 2010.
Simons experience was much valued by the Board and it would like to thank him for his contribution to the Group.
Ferrexpo is very pleased to welcome Jason Keys as the new Group Marketing Officer.
Jason joins Ferrexpo from BHP Billiton where he is currently Global Marketing Manager for Iron Ore.
He has significant industry experience in both the European and Asian iron ore markets, having led BHP Billitons Iron Ore commercial marketing team over the last five years.
