chairman and grOup chief executives repOrt entitled to receive 1,630 pence in cash per Forth Ports Overview share.
In addition, Forth Ports shareholders will be entitled 2010 was a successful year for Forth Ports showing growth to receive and retain the proposed final dividend of 20 in our financial results and progress in each of our different pence per share expected to be paid on 13th May 2011 businesses.
The highlights were: to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15th April 2011.
It is intended that the Offer will be Core ports business delivered revenue and implemented by means of a Court-sanctioned Scheme profit growth: of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act.
Tilbury established as a Distribution Hub for the 2012 Olympics: Further details of the Offer are contained in a Progress in positioning two of our key ports in Scotland separate announcement.
as renewables hubs: Further development of our portcentric strategy at Tilbury with progress on our planning application for financial Project NEXT: Total revenue increased by 5% to 181.9m 2009 Growth in both income and value from our property 173.9m.
Within total revenue, port revenue increased assets: and by 2% and property revenue increased by over 7m, A further significant reduction in our accident rate.
principally as a result of the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the shares in OTL at the end of 2009.
Revenue from In our ports business, the Group was successful in recycling amounted to 15.7m 2009 17.6m.
The attracting new business and assisting existing customers underlying ports operating profit increased by 4% to to take advantage of opportunities to work with other 1 43.0m 2009 41.5m.
The profit from recycling was customers to increase the overall level of business in the broadly in line with 2009 at 1.1m.
With the benefit of the ports.
At the same time, the Group managed its cost base, acquisition of OTL, property operating profit increased increased productivity and enhanced the skills base of our by 8% on a like-for-like basis.
In general, volume recovery has been slower in Scotland than the South East of England, particularly in The reported profit before tax amounted to 56.3m containers, but the ongoing reduction of our cost base has compared with 47.0m in 2009 after net exceptional items allowed us to take advantage of increased volumes and 2 and revaluations of 19.7m 2009 13.8m.
The integration of Ocean Terminal Limited OTL as a the underlying wholly owned subsidiary was successfully accomplished, producing underlying income growth, valuation growth and portS operating new tenants whilst minimising the disruption from the tram works.
We achieved success on the planning application proFit increaSed for The Harbour in Leith and approval, in principle, for Tax Incremental Financing TIF for infrastructure at The by 4% to 43.0m Harbour.
All of these factors will provide a firm base from which to move forward both with this development and Basic earnings per share amounted to 98.4p 2009 to attract a partner to help us grow further value.
Underlying earnings per share were 59.3p compared with 56.2p in 2009.
The external valuation of our property development portfolio increased from 108.5m to 115.5m.
This Total net debt was reduced for the second year in succession portfolio includes the following assets: declining by 19.6m to 231.5m.
We are in discussions to refinance the Groups existing facility which expires in Ocean Terminal June 2012.
Development land Land generating investment property income 2011 will see a new charge being incurred under the Land and property income at Grangemouth Governments carbon reduction legislation which has recently been changed to a tax.
The charge for 2011 will The remaining land and port related income at Leith not be material to the Group and we are discussing the has not been included in the property valuation.
We have future implications with our tenants and customers.
taken the view that the development potential of this land in the near future is more likely to be for port related The pension charge in the income statement increased renewables activity.
A further significant increase has been projected for 2011.
In light of this, discussions are due to take place with our employees to Offer amend the benefit structure of the scheme to enable the It was announced on 22nd March 2011 that the Boards retention of the defined benefits scheme at a cost which of Forth Ports and Otter Ports, a wholly-owned subsidiary is more sustainable in the future.
The Company is also of Arcus European Infrastructure Fund 1 L. P. had reached looking at a scheme to implement an asset backed funding agreement on the terms of a recommended cash offer solution to address a proportion of the scheme deficit.
the Offer to be made by Otter Ports to acquire all of the issued and to be issued share capital of Forth Ports.
Under the terms of the Offer, Forth Ports shareholders will be 1 Restated for reallocation of net finance cost on pension liability Note 32 2 Revised for measurement period adjustment Note 39 12 3 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation There has been a significant amount of work done in dividend Scotland on Renewables where both Leith and Dundee The Directors propose a final dividend of 20p per share were designated in the Scottish Governments National giving a total dividend for the year of 30p 2009 28.6p Renewables Infrastructure in Scotland Plan as the two main an increase of 5%.
If approved by the shareholders at the ports for renewables hubs.
We are in discussions with Annual General Meeting on 6th May 2011, the final dividend Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe Limited regarding the will be paid on 13th May 2011 to all shareholders on the development of a renewable hub at one of our ports.
The register as at 15th April 2011.
Spanish company Gamesa announced its intention to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding MoU to establish offshore manufacturing at Dundee.
We have received a pOrts number of other inward investment enquiries related to The ports business performed well in 2010 with Tilbury, renewables activity.
The Scottish Government has set up Leith and Dundee particularly strong.
The underlying 3 a fund of 72m which is to be used to support the creation EBITDA amounted to 57.0m compared with 55.2m of renewables facilities within Scotland.
We have applied in 2009. for funds with the support of a number of interested manufacturers and developers.
Tilburys operating profit increased significantly on a revenue increase of 2%.
Nordic Forest Terminals Limited After a disappointing 2009, Tilbury Container Services NFT increased its revenues by 10%.
In Scotland, TCS, the deep-sea container company in which we revenue was up marginally.
Overall, profitability in have a one third share, increased its container throughput Scotland grew strongly.
by over 10% with a consequent improvement in its financial performance.
Since the end of 2010, it has won three new Debenham Tie Leung DTZ, our external property services which should see it improve its profitability further valuers, carried out the quinquennial valuation of the port in 2011. investment property.
The Market Value of these properties was 243.2m as at 31st December 2010, an increase of 16.8m.
recycling Core volumes for our main customer Holmen decreased During 2010 there have been a number of gains at Tilbury.
with the closure of one of Holmens mills.
This was countered We are pleased to confirm that the London Organising by new initiatives to increase waste management revenues, Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games introduce and establish the new waste collection service LOCOG has now been given occupation of 500,000 and expand the customer base.
ft. of warehousing space in the port.
progress in the second half of 2010.
Volumes for the new waste business have also been increasing.
In overall terms, We signed a tripartite agreement with Cargill PLC and although the underlying contribution was marginally lower Tilbury Green Power Limited for the use of a 26 acre site at in 2010, this was spread across a broader business base.
Tilbury for the construction and operation of a 60 megawatt biomass plant.
We are hopeful that demolition work on the existing site will begin during 2011 with construction of a prOperty new biomass plant to follow.
Following the acquisition in December 2009 of the 50% shareholding in OTL that we did not already own, the We have been active in progressing the planning property division has made good progress in identifying application and discussions with Thurrock Thames and winning new tenants for OTL.
Whilst the retail market Gateway Development Corporation TTGDC and was difficult in 2010, we were able to secure H&M as a Thurrock Borough Council TBC on the redesignation tenant for a major unit within the shopping centre at Leith.
of the 65 acres of land outside the port which we purchased in 2008 Project NEXT.
The application was submitted to The Planning Committee of City of Edinburgh Council TTGDC in the second quarter of 2010 and the Planning CEC resolved to grant approval for our Outline Planning Officers Report has recommended approval of our Application OPA and Masterplan for The Harbour, Leith scheme.
The application will be heard by TTGDC once Docks.
In the second half of the year, CEC received some final ecological work has been completed.
In the approval in principle for a TIF scheme from the Scottish meantime, property agents have been appointed to market Government to enable CEC to seek public funding for the 65 acres and interest has already been shown in the various infrastructure projects around The Harbour.
The site for warehousing distribution.
Scottish Government confirmed that CEC could borrow up to 84m under the TIF proposal.
In Scotland, the Port of Dundee was busy providing services and facilities to both the North Sea oil and grain The tram works in Edinburgh have not progressed due to industries.
This activity boosted the ports income and legal difficulties between Transport Initiatives Edinburgh resulted in a greater awareness of the ports capabilities.
Until these difficulties are At Leith, the port had its best year ever with a combination resolved, there is no clarity from CEC or TIE about the of strong coal tonnages, good grain volumes and a delivery of a tram route to the Waterfront.
welcome increase in the activities of Bredero Shaw, the pipe coating company.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 chairman and grOup chief executives repOrt continued renewable energy OutlOOk Good progress has been made in Forth Energy, our The ports business has a secure and well spread business strategic joint venture with SSE plc.
Section 36 submissions base and with high operational gearing will respond for biomass facilities at each of the ports of Dundee, positively to any increases in economic activity.
Grangemouth, Rosyth and Leith have been submitted to the Scottish Government.
In January 2011, Dundee City We will continue to promote Leith and Dundee as major Council deferred approval as Statutory Consultee pending sites for renewable energy manufacture and or logistics further air quality studies which will require to be monitored and will progress our discussions to secure further during the course of 2011.
The Grangemouth application long-term contracts in these two ports.
has also been deferred until after the Scottish Parliamentary elections in May.
the port buSineSS haS bOard a Secure and well We are extremely grateful to all who work for Forth Ports and their efforts and contributions in 2010.
As announced, Spread buSineSS baSe last year, Wilson Murray will retire at the AGM in May.
Wilson has given over 25 years service to Forth Ports.
His We expect to increase revenues from the waste collection consistency, prudence and sound business judgement business which we started last year and should benefit from have been some of the main factors behind the Groups the new business from the second quarter of this year.
He has been an excellent colleague and we wish him a healthy and happy retirement.
We have already seen increased letting activity at the Ocean Terminal shopping centre in the first quarter and We are delighted to welcome Stuart Paterson as Group will progress our position on The Harbour development Finance Director with effect from 23rd March 2011.
was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Johnston Press plc.
Although economic conditions remain challenging in the UK, trading in the first two months has been encouraging.
David Richardson Charles Hammond Chairman Group Chief Executive 22nd March 2011 14
