a clear inveStment propoSition Our strategy of investing in continued growth supply chain opportunities in our portS buSineSS together with improvements in manpower skills and efficiencies gives growth potential from a secure business base.
renewable energy Our ports and land assets have the Project Next has the potential to expanding tilbury potential to develop manufacturing expand Tilburys warehousing and logistics centres of excellence capacity by up to 20%, helping for the offshore renewables industry.
to underpin volume growth within Our plans to provide renewable heat our largest port facility.
and power will make an important contribution to sustainable lower Attracting manufacturing facilities making progreSS carbon cities in Scotland.
for offshore renewables will add in renewableS value to our land assets and port operations in Scotland.
The development of consented planning conSentS Biomass plants will allow us to invest in materials handling solutions for volume growth, adding value to our land assets.
Through difficult economic times, prudent Financial core net debt has reduced due to management the stability of our ports business.
As we identify opportunities to expand, we will finance these prudently against commitments, delivering returns for the business and our shareholders.
By managing and developing regeneration our assets on the waterfront and working in partnership on regeneration, we can add value and income to our property assets and help to close the value gap between the city and the Waterfront, creating a major destination in Edinburgh.
a rich aSSet baSe tilbury Our extensive freehold asset base allows us to create value opportunities which will 7 25 Acres complement our core ports business and create conditions Scotland necessary for growth in changing markets.
The key elements for delivering value are the skills of 1, 000 Acres our people, targeted investments and our asset base.
Seabed 4, 500 Acres Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01
