28 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Dear Shareholders, mercial production at Soledad-Dipolos in January, as well as greater volumes deposited at Herradura and I am pleased to report a year of exceptional perforore milled at Cinega.
Silver and gold production reached record levels: Soledad-Dipolos started operations as our The Groups precious metals production profile confourth operating mine and contributed importantly solidates our global leadership position in primary to the results: significant progress was made at the silver and highlights the growing importance of gold Saucito development project, and the Cinega and in our portfolio.
Soledad-Dipolos expansions are on track: and exploration efforts increased mineralisation at all maProduction of zinc and lead, which are by-products jor prospects and led to a substantial increase in the of the Groups operations at Fresnillo and Cinega, total resource base.
increased by 15.1% and 9.9% respectively, mainly as a result of higher volumes of ore milled and better Our operational performance was enhanced by the ore grades.
considerable increase in metal prices over the period, which enabled us to deliver record financial reOur Group, along with much of the precious metals sults to Fresnillo shareholders.
We begin 2011 with industry, benefited from the rise in prices this year.
a robust operational profile, extensive growth pipeContinued uncertainty about the global economic line, strong cash position and zero debt.
recovery, market volatility and weakness of the US dollar contributed to sustained investor interest in A sterling performance gold, while higher silver prices reflected both invesTotal attributable silver production slightly exceeded tor interest and recovering demand for silver as an inour forecasts, rising 1.7% over 2009 to 38.6 million dustrial metal.
Average realised gold and silver prices ounces.
This reflected stable production at Fresnillo, for the Group increased by 26.6% and 40.0% respechigher ore throughput from development works at tively, helping drive the significant growth in earnings.
Saucito, and higher ore grades and ore deposited at Herradura.
In addition, we accrued 3.4 million ouncAdjusted revenues, which exclude treatment and es of silver under the Silverstream Contract, above refining charges and hedging results, rose 56.1% the amount received in 2009. in the year.
Total revenues increased to US$1,409.6 million, 65.8% higher than at 31 December 2009.
Attributable gold production increased by 33.4% EBITDA rose to US$945.0 million, with a significant to a record 368,995 ounces with the start of comincrease in the EBITDA margin from 58.4% in 2009 to iNveStiNg iN productivity Operating mines ciNegA uS$65.1 million Sinking of shaft to gain access to deeper ore reserves.
Expansion of milling capacity to stabilise annual production.
freSNillo uS$60.7 million Construction of new shaft to extract mineral from the western zone of the San Carlos vein and reduce haulage costs.
Ramp at San Julin project.
herrAdurA uS$54.4 million Conclusion of eighth leaching pad, construction of ninth.
Purchase of Noche Buenas concessions.
SoledAd-dipoloS uS$36.8 million Construction of second leaching pad.
Engineering for third, fourth and fifth leaching pads as part of expansion plan.
Projects and prospects SAucito uS$118.7 million 2010 capex: Mine construction including beneficiation plant, shaft, mining works, etc.
US$340.3 million other uS$4.6 million GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 29 67.0% in 2010.
Net profit attributable to shareholdimising current assets, and on delivering long-term ers, prior to Silverstream revaluation effects, was growth through reserve replacement and expansion US$530.8 million, 72.3% higher than in 2009. into new projects.
There were a number of variables that led to an inWhile we consider ourselves conservative in that crease in production costs this year, including the we maintain strict and consistent investment parevaluation effect of the Mexican peso-US dollar exrameters, we have a broad portfolio of high quality change rate and higher electricity and diesel prices.
Our strategy is Further contributing to the rise in production costs to consolidate mining districts with world-class powere increased mine development and rock bolting tential, and prospects must meet our tonnage, ore and shotcreting activities to enhance safety.
grade and low-cost extraction criteria.
We advance projects towards start-up through a disciplined fideNonetheless, higher volumes, strict cost controls, velopment process.
ongoing efficiency efforts and higher by-product credits resulted in lower cash costs and enabled us Results from exploration activities in 2010 were very to remain in the lowest quartile of the cost curve encouraging.
We undertook an extensive drilling relative to our peers.
Our low cost production profile programme employing 75 exploration rigs at our is a key competitive advantage because it provides mines, advanced projects and prospects.
Total atdownside protection in a cyclical environment.
tributable resources rose from 1.3 billion ounces of silver at 31 December 2009 to 1.5 billion ounces, and Fresnillo plc carries no bank debt, and as of 31 fide- 13.9 million ounces of gold to 20.1 million ounces.
cember 2010 had a cash position of US$559.5 million, 79.2% above the 2009 figure.
Our policy is to Of particular note is the discovery of a new ore invest in the future growth of the business.
Capital shoot at Saucito that added over 76 million ounces expenditures totalled US$340.3 million in 2010, and of silver and 300,000 ounces of gold to resources.
total exploration investment, including capitalised Resources at Orisyvo rose significantly.
At Noche 08 09 10 expenses was US$100.1 million.
Buena, we confirmed the resource estimate, comExPlORATION INvESTMENT pleted the pre-feasibility study and secured all land 2008-2010 US$ million An exceptional growth profile requirements to initiate construction of a new mine These results are the outcome of a strategy fidein 2011.
Scoping studies were completed at San Jusigned to create value across precious metals cylin and Orisyvo, as was the pre-feasibility study at cles: a focus both on operational excellence in maxJuanicipio in January 2011.
WhAt We expected to Achieve iN lASt yeArS hoW We ANNuAl report performed Silver production in line with 2009 Achieved record production Gold production up 20% 33.4% rise due to the successful start-up of Soledad-Dipolos Completion of expansion at Cinega and plant infrastructure Cinega leaching circuit completed, milling capacity at Saucito advanced on schedule: Saucito on schedule for 1H 2011 commissioning Exploration budget up 58% to Exploration expenses totalled US$82.1 million, a 67.4% US$77.6 million increase over 2009 Decision on conducting pre-feasibility Positive decision made, pre-feasibility study concluded in at Noche Buena 2010 and mine development to begin in 2011 Stable ore grades Stable gold ore grades at Cinega and Herradura, controlled silver ore grade at Fresnillo Improvement in safety indices Two fatalities set back our targets F Fresnillo plc resnillo plc 2010 2010 Annual Report Annual Report 62.5 56.5 100.1 30 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued The Group maintains the largest land position for procedures.
We have a responsibility to improve precious metals exploration and mining in Mexico our employees and contractors decision-making and we continued to acquire surface rights in 2010. capabilities when it comes to workplace safety, and We signed exploration option agreements to exas such we are reinforcing the rigorous procedures plore the gold properties Candamea in Chihuahua, and programmes already in place with supplemental and Cebadillas and Yesca in Nayarit, with drilling training and spot drills, and have enhanced the moniplanned for 2011.
We are also expanding our distoring procedures across the Group to ensure that trict exploration efforts in Guerrero, Durango, Guaour policies are adhered to.
A zero fatality tolerance is najuato and Zacatecas, as well as in Peru, where we the only acceptable standard, and I am joined by the acquired concessions this year.
Board and management team in extending our deep condolences to the families and colleagues.
We are on track to meet our goal of producing 65 million ounces of silver per year and over 400,000 Sustainable development ounces of gold per year by 2018.
Our business model is dependent upon sound environmental management practices and community By mid-2011, the expanded capacity at Cinega is and labour relations.
Sustainable development is thus expected to become operational, which will stabideeply integrated into every aspect of our operations.
lise gold production at 110,000 ounces per year and maintain mine life at over 10 years.
By the end of Along with ISO 14001 certifications at all mines and 2011, we expect to commission the shaft, giving us exploration offices, we are signatories to the Interaccess to deeper ore reserves and reduce costs.
Herradura completed the audit process to obtain certification We are also on track in expanding capacity at Solein 2010, and the process is underway at Cinega, dad-Dipolos from 100,000 ounces of gold per year where we expect to obtain certification in 2011. to 130,000 by increasing the number of leaching Soledad-Dipolos will begin the process in the compads and mobile equipment at the mine.
The new world-class Saucito mine is also on track to Employees received a greater number of trainstart commercial operations in 1H 2011.
First year ing hours on average in 2010, and we continued production levels are expected to reach 4.7 million to invest in a range of professional development ounces of silver and 22,500 ounces of gold, then initiatives and workplace enhancements, including ramping up to more than 9.0 million ounces of silver housing and recreational facilities.
Annual labour and 45,000 ounces of gold per year by 2013.
In 2010, negotiations concluded with the agreement of a we advanced the development of the mine and con- 6.5% wage increase and a 1% bonus on base salary.
struction of the beneficiation plant.
During the year 1.2 million ounces of silver and 6,323 ounces of gold Our community relations were strengthened this were obtained from the development works at Sauyear with the first full year of operations at the sewcito, which were processed at the Fresnillo mill.
In age water treatment plant at Fresnillo.
In a region of addition, 91,043 tonnes of ore from Saucito were water scarcity, the plant has contributed to preservstockpiled in preparation for the commissioning of ing aquifers and reducing a potential source of conthe Saucito mill.
tamination for the city, while lowering our production costs and fresh water consumption.
At Cinega Renewed focus on safety we worked with the municipality to pave the main While we are proud of our operational and financial streets of the town, improving the communitys success this year, I regret to report we have not pertransportation and air quality.
We are pleased that formed as well on safety.
We suffered two fatalities in our development projects are promoting job crea- 2010 as a result of failure to follow company safety tion in the Herradura and Fresnillo districts, as we GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 31 have a preference to utilise the services and products of local contractors and vendors.
In every community where we operate we continued to actively participate in education, healthcare and infrastructure projects.
i A full description of our sustainability programmes, objectives and performance may be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 56-69.
This annual report comprises our second Communication on Progress CoP in compliance with the Global Compact of the United Nations.
Outlook Continued market volatility and uncertainty regarding the pace of the economic recovery will undoubtedly be reflected in metal prices.
I am confident that our focus on increasing productivity, containing costs, expanding the resource and reserve base, and strengthening our growth pipeline will create ongoing and sustainable value to all our stakeholders.
looking ahead at 2011, we expect: Improved safety performance Commissioning of Saucito Commissioning of expanded milling capacity and deeper shaft at Cinega Completion of Soledad-Dipolos expansion Construction at Noche Buena under way Pre-feasibility study at San Julin Determination of next steps for development of Juanicipio Silver production to rise 5% Gold production to rise 5-6% Exploration budget to increase to US$251.4 million On behalf of the Companys personnel and the management team, I would like to extend my appreciation to our Chairman and members of the Board for their valuable support and guidance during 2010.
I would also like to thank my fellow executives and employees for their enduring commitment to quality and sustainable growth.
Jaime lomeln chief executive officer F Fresnillo plc resnillo plc 2010 2010 Annual Report Annual Report
