The GAME Group plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Chief Executives review Our business is in a strong position for the future Christopher Bell, Interim Chief Executive through exclusive products for key new releases Due to our established and first-to-market promotions, which offer customers a real point of differentiation.
specialist proposition, our business is in a strong position Our stores make the buying decision as easy as possible and, more importantly, our highly for the future.
Central to this is trained and knowledgeable teams provide our brand strategy which great service to core gamers and novices alike.
places our customers at the We have grown our GAME Reward Card heart of everything we do.
database by 17 per cent over the last year.
We now have over 14 million GAME Reward Our relationship with them is centred on a Card members around the world receiving strong value message, offering the widest loyalty points on everything they buy from us.
range of products, market leading service The Reward Card also enables us to tailor our and rewarding loyalty.
customer service to individual customer demands.
In a market where value for money has become increasingly important, we are Through every channel and in every location maintaining our competitive position through in which we operate, our attributes as a our trade-in and preowned programme and specialist are at the forefront of our interaction deal of the week and price promotion with the customer.
campaigns, which help us to compete with our competitors on price.
Market Development Further information go to: Over the short to medium term, we believe that We ensure that our customers get the Page 00.
the pc and video games market will continue to product that they want, when they want it, Page 00.
be dominated by boxed product.
This is Page 00. International management.
so that they can be the first to play, delivered reinforced by the manufacturers who are Our performance The GAME Group plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 producing peripherals for the third generation obtain the best allocation of new release console hardware, before looking towards the product on the day of launch and through the fourth generation.
This is positive news for the products lifecycle.
The products we sell are specialist as we always perform well when new differentiated by the exclusives attached to boxed product technology is released.
them, both as tangible products such as the Guitar Hero exclusive Coloured Guitar or Over the longer term, we expect to see digital downloads such as the exclusive race increasing diversity in the way people play tracks in Forza Motorsport 3.
The range in and interact more use of digital downloading stores is being extended significantly through to enhance disc based games, games greater connectivity to our websites via downloaded in their entirety, greater access to interactive kiosks.
casual free-to-play games, and more people playing mobile games.
Customers will expect a We are increasing the range of own brand seamless service across stores, eCommerce and products, Gameware, to provide our customers digital platforms.
Fundamentally, however, we still with more choice at cheaper prices.
These believe that customers will want to access the pc products are largely peripheral items, such as and video games world through a trusted, controllers.
reliable and independent provider, and we have developed a GAME branded offer for them all.
Our teams are gearing up for the launch of Sonys PlayStation Move and Microsofts Project Our Strategy Brand Proposition Natal in the second half of 2010.
These new To strengthen our market leading position we peripherals will each be supported with a new believe that our specialist proposition must evolve, software range and our brands are positioned to and we must also ensure that our brands take a be the lead launch partners in Europe with the leading role in the longer term structural changes most comprehensive range and volume of in the market.
Our brands offer customers: products, combined with in store demonstrations and specialist advice.
Value: We continue to give our customers value for money whenever and wherever they shop Service: Our employees offer expert advice to with us.
Through supplier supported deals we consumers in an increasingly complex market.
have unique bundle deals, deal of the week We continue to champion new technology promotions and other price campaigns on mint launches and enhance our support service.
We are supporting To do this we are continuing to invest in our this value message with an increase in the employee training programmes Xcite and frequency of sales.
All employees receive thorough training in retail which, when combined with their We continue to be the leading preowned retailer genuine enthusiasm for pc and video games, by maintaining compelling trade-in deals and gives us a competitive advantage.
We are offering the best prices on preowned product.
enhancing our eCommerce and digital services By trading in product that they have already with such items as gift selectors, exclusive played, our customers can buy new games for product reviews and demonstrations.
We, in turn, sell those traded-in games on to eCommerce offering is more than just a virtual other customers at attractive prices.
shop window: it acts to inform, compare and advise, creating a sense of community with our These value offers are supported by our Reward customers.
Card loyalty programme, which provides points equivalent to a 2.5 per cent in points on every Loyalty: Our loyalty scheme, the GAME Reward purchase and 5 per cent if you pre-order with us.
Card, has given us great insight into our customers and provided real savings to its Product and range: As a leading specialist, members.
We are increasing membership breadth of range is fundamental to our offer.
We benefits and personalisation to continue to build GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Chief Executives review continued trust between ourselves and our customers.
We are furthering our target audience through the Our stores are a place to launch of a loyalty card in Gamestation before experience games, and the the end of the year.
format is evolving to cater for These changes to our commercial offer will give customers changing needs us the points of difference to compete against and the incoming new the price and offer-led propositions on the high street, in the supermarkets and online.
Our Strategy Infrastructure and Support thousands more product lines and enhance the Location and technology customer experience.
Consumers are buying and playing pc and video games through a variety of different To deal with the transactional volumes through channels.
Boxed products are still our stores, we continually upgrade our IT overwhelmingly the most popular with infrastructure.
As part of this we are installing customers, but playing games online and via both customer conversion technology and digital downloads, although less than 1 per cent top-up card activation capabilities within our of sales today, will become an increasingly outlets.
important part of it in the future.
eCommerce: is an important part of our GAME is constantly updating its customer offer customer offering, delivering over 5 per cent of to continue its lead in this evolving market.
Through our websites we can offer is a GAME offering in every channel and our the same services as in our stores, plus a objective is to offer customers the same value substantially enhanced range, online-only offers and service wherever they choose to shop and and additional marketing and support, i. e. Click interact with us.
and Collect, to our customers and stores.
We are launching two eCommerce initiatives to Stores: remain central to our offer, delivering develop this opportunity further.
over 94 per cent of our revenues.
We strongly believe that stores will continue to have a very To give our customers a seamless brand significant role in pc and video games retailing.
experience we are introducing a new Websphere eCommerce platform over the We actively manage our store portfolio in each next two years, linking all of our territories and of our territories, to create a store footprint that stores to provide a universal online portal, and is appropriately matched to local market fully connected infrastructure.
As non-boxed revenues increase, we customers by increasing the efficiency of are reducing the number of overlapping outlets product targeting and searching, and will in the UK, targeting 550 stores by Christmas 2013. support GAMEs marketing efforts by increasing The profile of our leases will allow us to do this.
awareness of both new releases and back We are also limiting store openings in our existing catalogue software.
It will also give us a single international locations, but will continue to look view of customer behaviour across our stores at new markets if they show the right return and websites, and help us improve our services characteristics.
GAME will invest 5 million this year and the next in this eCommerce platform.
Our stores are a place to experience games, and the format is evolving to cater for their Our websites around the world receive 112 million changing needs and the incoming new visits per annum.
This, coupled with our Reward technology.
We are trialling interactive kiosks Card programme, already gives us one of the and improved eCommerce connectivity in largest communities of video gamers in the selected stores to expand further the range with world.
Now we are building on this position by Our performance The GAME Group plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 creating a social networking site, Gamesnation, delivering joint benefits of scale and enhancing which is currently in beta testing with thousands our customer proposition in every territory and of members to increase brand awareness further channel in which we operate.
and to appeal to a wider target audience.
By seeking exclusives for all major titles we have Digital: revenues are small, less than 1 per cent a competitive point of difference, and where of turnover, but are a growing part of our those exclusives are digital content we are business.
The digital market is still very disparate, building a brand image in the digital arena.
and activity is currently limited by technological capacity and customer appetite.
However, as Distribution digital revenues form a larger part of the market In all of our markets, the majority of new over the next five years, we believe that both products are sold in the first weeks of launch, so customers and manufacturers want a trusted immediate availability, and timely replenishment, brand to act as the independent aggregator.
is crucial to our credibility.
GAME Group has Consequently we continue to grow our digital purpose-built distribution facilities in all territories pc download offer, which is now the largest in to ensure that products reach customers at the Europe with over 1,000 titles available.
Distribution centres support our stores, as well as our direct to home solutions.
This gives us invaluable insight into customer demands as we extend our digital offer.
We can Multi-channel be reached through a GAME iPhone app which The actions we are undertaking will give us a was launched in 2009 and we have become the genuine multi-channel proposition that will first video games retailer to have a presence in make us the aggregator of choice for customers Sony PlayStation Home the online portal for wherever they want to shop and however they 12 million PlayStation 3 players.
Over the coming want to interact with pc and video games.
months we will announce our plans for other digital arenas.
Summary The resilience of our performance last year was We continue to participate in online gameplay, entirely attributable to our credentials as a selling time cards, add-ons and a wide range of specialist retailer, which gives us many peripherals to maximise the gameplay competitive advantages.
identified plans to move these forward, and in so doing will address and outpace the current Our focus continues to be on our customers, competitive pressures that we face and position ensuring that for every service they want to use ourselves for the longer term changes in our we can provide functionality, either by building it market place.
ourselves or by involving a partner such as Metaboli.
In every case we will also provide Whilst we recognise that the outlook for the extensive advice and full after-sales care.
wider global economy remains uncertain and that we face a difficult current year, we believe Business relationships that our value-led offer positions us well and with To provide customers with all the product and our ongoing cost discipline, we are confident offers they want from a specialist it is vital that we about our prospects going forward.
maintain long-term and successful relationships with all of our partners.
We are committed to working with our suppliers to continually improve our specialist proposition and we have recently appointed a Group Commercial Strategy Chris Bell Director to work with our partners at a global Interim Chief Executive level, further strengthening our relationships, GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Key performance indicators KPIs Customer relationship management Description Highlights Measure Preowned We offer customers great Strong growth all year, despite Value revenues m value in a number of ways.
Our trade-in and preowned Over one third of Gamestation programmes allow consumers customers bought Modern 374.5m to maximise their purchases Warfare 2 for 5.99 using our from their available cash exclusive trade-in deal.
Preowned games Preowned margin increased 2009: 353.4m offer a wider range and to 41.7 per cent from better value to todays more 39.1 per cent.
2008: 257.3m price-conscious consumer, Preowned represents 21 per allowing them to buy cent of Group turnover and is products at prices lower than expected to grow.
GAME and Gamestation Higher margin software Gross profit Product and Product range & range carry the widest range of increased within our sales mix m product on the high street.
compared to the prior year.
We use our expertise and Extended range on UK websites 492.7m customer insight to generate including TVs, cameras and unique product offers and video game merchandise.
-4.2% deals, and offer customers Kiosks introduced in 14 concept what they want at prices they stores which will expand range 2009: 514.5m can afford.
when fully connected to 2008: 369.6m eCommerce infrastructure.
2007: 217.7m 46 leading software releases were offered to GAME Group customers with exclusive extras.
Total Reward The GAME Reward Card helps Over 39 per cent of new Loyalty Card members us to communicate with, and Reward Card customers are reward, over 14 million female.
As members, our More personalised service 14.5m customers earn points on being developed for every purchase, which can customers online and instore.
2.1m be used as discounts against Reward Card shows that 2009: 12.4m future purchases.
We are multichannel customers spend working on similar scheme for 40 per cent more than single 2008: 10.2m Gamestation customers, channel customers.
2007: 8.6m which is being developed to suit their needs.
Number of Our well-trained and Xcite and Smile training Service employees knowledgeable employees schemes extended to maintain are instrumental in guiding high standards.
consumers to the products, In store working hours reviewed 10,592 deals and choices that best to ensure staff cover matches suit their needs.
1.4% and train people with a 2009: 10,450 passion for games and an aptitude for retail, who are 2008: 7,959 dedicated to giving our 2007: 5,148 customers the highest levels of service and advice.
Our performance The GAME Group plc 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Key performance indicators KPIs Infrastructure and support Description Highlights Measure In each of the countries in Store opening programme Number of stores Location which we operate, we identify slowed and targeted at the very best store locations strategic new sites.
1,380 Ongoing property portfolio for our customers that we review in the UK to maximise believe will give us the best 2.8% effectiveness of dual brand returns on our investment.
In strategy, with some GAME and the UK GAME has concession 2009: 1,342 Gamestation locations partnerships with Fenwick, 2008: 1,161 switching brand.
2007: 817 Successful transfer of over 60 per cent of GAME customers from Borders concessions to nearest GAME store, following Borders store closures.
We continue to invest in our Customer conversion Online operating Technology multi-channel proposition to technology installed in 90 trial profit m ensure we can deliver growth stores and being rolled into all in the future and maintain our UK stores.
In the Unique visitors to UK websites period, GAME invested up 6 per cent to 95 million.
-19.7% 5 million in distribution Central call centre system infrastructure and consumer installed to increase customer 2009: 6.1m facing website development.
response time and to give 2008: 2.9m store teams more time to serve 2007: 1.8m customers face to face.
Units sold of To provide customers with our GAME Group worked with Business Supplier top ten titles in r rela elationships tionships wide range of products and Activision Blizzard to launch Call the UK m offers, it is vital that we of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 maintain long-term and around the world.
It became successful relationships with the fastest selling game of all 3.5m all the key hardware and time, and GAME took a leading 35% software suppliers.
We work share in the UK and Spain.
closely with business partners GAME Group secured 23 2009: 2.6m to develop market leading software titles which had 2008: 1.7m offers and availability in our exclusive digital content, such stores and online.
as extra race tracks or vehicles, 2007: 1.1m for our customers.
Units of stock Our distribution centres Additional mezzanine floor Distribution despached in are dedicated to moving added to UK distribution the UK m products quickly and centre to cater for increased efficiently to final destinations, eCommerce operations.
whether that is large volumes Record 36 million units of 36m to our stores or small hardware, software and 3% individual packages direct peripherals shipped in 2009 to customers homes via in the UK.
