06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In closing last years statement, I wrote that Against a background of expected improvements in global economies, the Group should make significant progress in 2010.
Our balance sheet strength and excellent market positions give the Board confidence in a strong and sustained GKN recovery.
I am pleased to be able to report that the Groups performance in the year has fully underscored that statement.
A strong set of financial results, together with the excellent progress made in the continued development of our market leading businesses, provide a solid platform for continued above-market growth, improving profitability and strong cash generation.
Our markets and divisional performance The recovery in global automotive production which started in the second half of 2009 accelerated in 2010 with demand stronger than we had anticipated.
Global production reached 75 million units in the year, which New technologies and is now higher than 2007 pre-recession levels and compares with 60 million vehicles in 2009.
The geographical distribution of this production is now new products are creating however significantly different, with demand in Western Europe, North opportunities to build America and Japan still down around 20% on 2007, whilst Chinas output stronger relationships has doubled and we have experienced strong growth in Brazil and India.
with our customers as GKNs global positioning, together with our exposure to the high performing they strive to develop European premium brands, has enabled us to take full advantage and revenues in Driveline and Powder Metallurgy increased by 38% in the year.
more highly engineered The benefits of the significant restructuring programme launched at the end solutions for a low of 2008 also contributed to a very strong bounce back in profitability, and carbon world.
trading profits for these two divisions reached 223 million, which compares with 3 million in 2009.
Last June we launched a new division GKN Land Systems, which brought together the OffHighway business with our AutoStructures operations and the Aftermarket business of GKN Driveline.
This new division will focus on better exploiting GKNs competencies in markets we already serve, such as agriculture, mining, construction, defence and rail, and also build positions in new industrial sectors.
In the first half of 2010 we saw the start of recovery in the global heavy construction and mining equipment markets together with improving agricultural equipment demand in North America and by the final quarter the beginnings of the recovery in the European agricultural machinery market.
Land Systems performance also benefited from 2009 restructuring actions and, on revenues of 699 million up 106 million, the division turned a small prior year loss into a trading profit of 37 million.
In aerospace, notwithstanding the very negative impact of the recession on the airline industry, large commercial aircraft production has fallen only slightly and is already starting its recovery, with output for both wide bodied and narrow bodied aircraft expected to increase in 2012.
GKNs defence activities 47% of Aerospace revenues are almost entirely associated with US Government programmes, and in 2010 the production rundown of the F-22 fighter aircraft commenced and schedule reductions on the C-17 transporter were implemented.
Growth in new programme revenues was not able to compensate and as a result GKNs Aerospace revenues were down around 2% and profits reduced by 7 million to 162 million.
Group performance Overall GKN Group sales were up 22% to 5.4 billion and trading profit more than doubled to 411 million.
Group cash flow has again been strong, with particular emphasis on working capital control where, notwithstanding rapidly increasing production activity, inventory turns continued to improve.
As a result net debt reduced from 300 million to 151 million.
The final actions in the Group restructuring programme were launched in the second half, and will conclude early in 2011.
This will bring to an end a period of extensive strategic and recessionary-driven restructuring which commenced in 2004.
07 Building the future Outlook Its been extremely encouraging to see the continued success The outlook for our major markets is positive although some of all four divisions in winning new business and launching uncertainty remains, particularly around macro-economic new products.
In Driveline, recent high levels of new driveshaft business Against this background, Driveline and Powder Metallurgy are have led to the launch of an expansion programme in India, expected to show further good improvement in 2011.
The China and North America which will add approximately 60% conclusion of Driveline's restructuring actions will also to available capacity in those markets over the next few years.
provide some additional benefits to operating performance.
Demand for new trans axle and electronic torque control Aerospace sales are expected to be broadly flat as second products has also been encouraging, and we have secured half increases in revenue from civil aircraft offset reduced new hybrid electric vehicle transmission programmes in Japan military sales.
The ramp up of a number of new aircraft and North America to add to the hybrid rear axle product that programmes and further increases in civil volumes should will be available on the Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4 system in 2011. return Aerospace to its strong growth trend in 2012.
Powder Metallurgy continues to benefit from demands on Land Systems performance should continue to improve, auto manufacturers to implement new technologies to benefiting particularly from the expected increase in European improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions.
Variable valve agricultural equipment markets, which represent around a timing in engines, dual clutch transmissions and lightweight, quarter of Land Systems sales.
high performance pumps, transmissions and differentials, together with soft magnetic components in electric motors Free cash flow is again expected to be positive, giving a further and alternators, are examples of a whole range of new reduction in net debt for the year.
applications secured by Powder Metallurgy which will In summary, GKN expects 2011 to be a year of good progress support strong revenue growth in the coming years.
As end markets continue to improve, the Our strategy in Land Systems will take some time to evolve, strength of our market positions and order books leaves GKN although we are already seeing the benefits in our order well placed for a period of sustained growth, margin expansion books of providing an outlet for GKN driveline technology in and strong free cash flow generation.
A constant velocity jointed driveshaft has Enduring Values been developed for agricultural tractors, improving mobility, As GKN employees we are bound together by shared values, comfort and speed of operation, and a GKN torque sensing common ways of working and a continued drive for excellence product which links with the tractor GPS now enables much in everything we do.
Land Systems has also developed a hydro split gearbox which allows continued and In closing my report, I once again want to pay tribute to GKNs automatic variation of power to combine harvesters, optimising employees for their commitment, talent and enterprise, which performance irrespective of the crop being harvested.
has not only enabled the Company to weather the worst global recession of our time, but has also built an exceptional platform Aerospace has continued to secure extensions to existing for GKN to continue to develop and grow.
programmes, such as a further multi-year contract for F-18 fighters, and to win additional work packages on new ones, I congratulate and thank everyone who has crossed the GKN including A350 XWB, the Joint Strike Fighter and Boeing 747-8 threshold in 2010 for their contribution to a year of and 787.
Major multi-year contracts were secured with all three exceptional progress.
main engine manufacturers which will provide over $1 billion of revenues to GKN.
New programme activity has made excellent progress, with our first composite major assembly on the Sikorsky CH-53K heavy lift helicopter being delivered, as was our first complete composite fuselage for the HondaJet and in December we started production of the first Airbus A350 wing Sir Kevin Smith spars in our new purpose-built facility in Filton, UK.
We were Chief Executive pleased also that our joint venture with Rolls-Royce, initially covering development of composite fan blades, has now been extended to include front fan casings.
Right across GKN new technologies and new products are creating opportunities to build stronger relationships with our customers as they strive to develop more highly engineered solutions for a low carbon world.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
