DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive, reviews investors key concerns and topical issues.
Keith joined Go-Ahead in 1996 and has been Group Chief Executive since 2006.
He has nearly 40 years experience in the transport sector.
How will Go-Ahead be affected by the Governments budget cuts?
To date the specifics around how the cuts in the Department for Transports budget will affect public transport operators are not known.
However, I believe the biggest potential risk for us lies in the bus industry with the possible reduction in, or removal of, the bus service operators grant BSOG.
BSOG currently reimburses operators around three quarters of the fuel duty cost.
For GoAhead, this equates to 48m per annum, around 8% of total bus revenues.
In London, the bus network is vital to the capital and hopefully BSOG relating to existing contracts would be preserved.
In the medium term, any changes are likely to be recovered fromTfL on contract renewal.
Outside London, the risk is that a reduction in BSOG would lead to a combination of network reduction and price increases.
We believe the Government is aware of these potential consequences and expect further information as part of the Comprehensive Spending Review in October.
Why have you entered the North American yellow school bus market?
The UK market remains our priority, but after a review of potential overseas growth opportunities, we identified North American yellow school bus as an attractive market.
It has many similarities with the UK bus market and fits well with the Groups strategy of providing high quality, locally focused services.
Setting up a joint venture with an established local operator represents a low risk means of market entry and we are very pleased with our partner Cook Illinois.
While we recognise that the market is currently under pressure as school districts look to save costs, the current climate presents a valuable opportunity for us to learn about the business.
We also believe in the markets long term WE ARE A RELATIVELY MATURE growth prospects due to both demographic trends and potential BUSINESS AND MAINTAININGTHE conversion to the private sector.
However, as previously stated, we DIVIDEND PER SHARE IS A HIGH will continue to maintain a cautious approach to further expansion PRIORITY FORTHE BOARD.
Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive 10 www.
Your rail profits have halved since 2008.
Do you still NORTH AMERICAN YELLOW think the UK rail market is a good place to be?
SCHOOL BUS MARKET We believe that yellow school bus is an attractive market with Yes I do.
Fundamentally, rail is a very good business and the private significant growth opportunities.
However, we are taking a sector is best placed to deliver the service to passengers.
The market has many similarities Ahead has a good track record in winning bids and delivering high with UK bus, but is far larger and more fragmented.
The dilemma for the industry is how to translate market is approximately 450,000 buses of which around this into a more sustainable business model which appeals to the 150,000 are run by private operators.
The chart below shows private sector.
The economic climate has highlighted the volatile approximate market share for the private sector.
nature of the current rail franchising model.
In 2008, we reported a rail operating profit of 77.2m, compared with 37.3m this year.
I 1 Yellow school bus market share private sector would far rather we averaged a more stable level of earnings for a longer period than the current franchise allows and believe FirstGroup franchise reform can address these issues.
I therefore welcome the 42% National Express Governments review of the future of rail franchising.
28% Student Transport America Atlantic Express Cook Illinois See pages 39-40 for more information about the UK rail market and franchise reform.
Petermann 7% 2% Next 10 operators You say you remain cautious on the outlook for the 2% 4% Operators 800 buses Group.
What does this mean for the dividend?
4% 11% We are a relatively mature business and maintaining the dividend The North American yellow school bus market is vast.
To per share is a high priority for the Board.
Our strong balance sheet illustrate its size, we operate around 3,800 buses in the UK.
and cashflows support this level of dividend whilst ensuring we can An equivalent sized operator in the privatised sector of the continue to invest properly in our existing business.
We will North American yellow school bus market would have a continue to seek acquisitions where they add value, preferring boltmarket share of around 2.5%.
on transactions in UK bus and gradual expansion in North America.
How do you see the medium long term future of the business?
I am pleased with the strategic progress we have made to strengthen our core bus and rail operations.
I believe in the fundamentals of public transport and in our focus on local management teams empowered to deliver high quality services to local communities.
I expect the near term to remain challenging as we work through the economic recovery, but, in the medium to long term, I believe that Go-Ahead is a good place to be.
Before amortisation and exceptional items.
1 Macquarie equity research, school bus fleet, July 2009.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
