DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We continue to deliver solid results by prioritising service quality, operational excellence, local focus on our high density urban businesses and financial discipline.
investment was slightly ahead of depreciation, as expected, partly driven by franchise commitments in both Southern and London Midland but also to maintain our high quality asset base in our expanding bus division.
We made good progress with bus acquisitions in the year, with a total investment of 37.2m, of which cash consideration was 35.2m.
On 3 October 2009 we purchased EastThames Buses fromTransport for London for 5.0m, and bought Arrivas Horsham depot for 5.0m.
These businesses are now fully integrated into Go-Ahead London and Metrobus respectively.
On 1 December 2009 we completed the acquisition of Plymouth Citybus for 19.0m, a high quality urban operation with a large centrally located freehold depot and a strong reputation that we are seeking to further enhance.
In March 2010 we acquired the entire share capital of Konectbus, a quality operator in East Anglia, and completed the acquisition of Arrivas Hexham depot operations and sold our Ashington depot to Arriva.
We remain financially robust and gained investment grade ratings from Moodys and Standard & Poors in the period and completed our debut issue of a 7 year 200m bond in March 2010.
This further strengthens our balance sheet and secures our financing Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive beyond our November 2012 bank facilities.
We have maintained our full year dividend to shareholders at 81.0p per share 2009: 81.0p.
I am pleased with our overall operational performance.
We continue to deliver solid results by prioritising service quality, DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW operational excellence, local focus on our high density urban Bus businesses and financial discipline.
Our bus division performed slightly ahead of our expectations due to a strong finish to the year.
Like-for-like revenue increased in all Summary of performance six of our bus companies, endorsing the economic resilience of Revenue was 2,201.6m 2009: 2,187.2m, with the increase of these operations.
Our acquisitions performed well and contributed 14.4m consisting of a reduction of 194.3m due to a change in 3.6m of operating profit, including a strong performance by East access charge regime subsidy and an underlying increase of Thames Bus.
Operating profit was slightly below last year at 208.7m, or 9.5%.
63.7m 2009: 66.6m, primarily due to lower margin contract Overall operating performance was some 5m ahead of our renewals in our regulated London operations.
Our devolved expectations, with operating profit of 102.0m supported by a structure encourages high levels of service quality, customer focus strong finish to the year from our bus operations and lower than and strong local cost control.
Management initiatives contributed a anticipated electricity costs in our rail division.
We completed the further 4.3m of cost savings.
We continue to champion Group disposal of the majority of our cargo and ground handling purchasing power and have fide-risked fuel costs through a operations during the year and expect to sell the remaining ground comprehensive hedging programme that is complete for the next handling operations in the next twelve months.
two years at 41pence per litre ppl, compared with 47 ppl in the year just ended.
Capital investment continues at above depreciation, Strong cash management resulted in cashflow from operations ensuring that we retain one of the youngest bus fleets in the sector being well ahead of our expectations at 160.6m 2009: 233.4m and maintain our strategically important freehold depot locations.
and net debt remained low at 88.3m 2009: 91.0m.
com Through our joint venture with Cook Illinois, Go-Ahead North Market environment America finished its preparations to run its first yellow school bus In the near term, we expect economic conditions to remain franchise in St Louis which commenced trading in August 2010. challenging.
Political support from the new Government is strong, notwithstanding the likelihood of reduced funding as part of the Rail Comprehensive Spending Review due to be announced in October Our rail division performed well and operating profit was 2010.
We welcome the Governments review of the future of rail approximately 3m ahead of our expectations, primarily due to a franchising and will actively participate in the consultation process.
reduction in electricity costs allocated by Network Rail at the end In the medium term, we expect to benefit from both a cyclical of the financial year.
economic recovery and from the fundamental strengths of public transport in the UK.
Each of our three rail franchises is underpinned by a focus on high density, urban commuter markets.
Passenger revenue continued to Our strategy grow in line with current expectations, with second half trends slightly Our strategy continues to focus on providing high quality passenger stronger than those in the first half.
Operating profit was 37.3m transport in the UK, primarily through bus and rail.
compared to 61.5m last year, primarily due to the change from the previous to the new Southern franchise, more difficult economic The underlying elements of this strategy are to: conditions compared to the assumptions at the time of our bid for Run our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally Southeastern and additional costs in London Midland.
We began responsible manner running the new Southern franchise in September 2009 and are Provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services pleased with the performance of this franchise to date.
This year saw Prioritise high density, urban markets in the UK the introduction of the UKs first domestic high speed rail service, operated by Southeastern between St Pancras International and Kent Maintain strong financial discipline to deliver shareholder value as part of a major timetable change in December 2009.
In London Midland the new management team has significantly improved the In summary operational performance of that franchise.
We continue to make We are pleased with the results for the year given the challenging good progress with cost control initiatives in our rail operations and economic conditions and we have made good progress in estimate savings for the year just ended of 25.0m.
Whilst we remain cautious on the near term outlook for the UK Aviation services economy and the potential impact of the Governments October We disposed of the majority of our cargo and ground handling 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review on our operations, we operations in January 2010 and are making progress on disposing continue to be confident in the underlying strengths of, and growth of the remaining ground handling operations.
Consequently, operating opportunities for, our business.
profit of 1.0m 2009: 0.7m for the aviation services division for the financial year consisted primarily of our Meteor parking and security business which performed as expected in the year.
# Restated to exclude our ground handling and cargo operations.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
