Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 06 CHIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW Greene King has been providing its customers Rooney Anand Chief executive with authentic pub and beer experiences for over 200 years and central to this longevity is our ability to develop our business to reflect changing consumer preferences and economic conditions.
Greene King has delivered another strong We have consciously enhanced the value Summary of chief executives review performance.
For the 52 weeks to 2 May 2010, proposition to our customers over the last two we achieved record revenues of 984.1m, up years and while the UK consumer continues to Profit before tax was 3.8% up on last year 3.1% on last year, despite the difficult trading demand exceptional value, we will deliver it, at at 123.0m environment.
Operating profit of 211.3m was the same time maintaining our commitment to 2.3% below last year but profit before tax was generating healthy cash margins.
We have invested over 100m from our 3.8% up on last year at 123.0m.
Adjusted rights issue in high quality, freehold, retail earnings per share was down 18.7% at 43.4p, Strategy update outlet acquisitions from our competitors due primarily to the higher number of shares Greene King has been providing its customers and below par debt buybacks following the rights issue.
The board has with authentic pub and beer experiences for recommended a final dividend of 15.6p per over 200 years and central to this longevity is We have continued investing in our estate, share, 3.3% ahead of last year.
our ability to develop our business to reflect particularly in our leading pub restaurant changing consumer preferences and economic brands, which has delivered exceptional market and business overview conditions.
This has been particularly true in the returns in recent years Our performance was delivered in another year last three years as we successfully adapted to the of challenging market conditions.
Although the challenges of the smoking ban, the banking crisis Greene King Retail achieved record revenue of UK consumer was better off than in the previous and the recession.
589.2m, 3.5% above last year, and operating year following various government stimuli, bank profit of 106.4m, up 0.8% on last year lending remained low and the savings ratio grew.
We have a strong business which has been In addition, we had a tough winter, duty and VAT augmented in the last two years by two significant Having made excellent progress, particularly rises and the increasing consumer uncertainty initiatives.
Firstly, we have invested over 100m in the last six months, we believe Pub Partners over the election.
The overall eating out market from our rights issue in high quality, freehold, is now leading the sector on performance remained subdued and on-trade beer volumes retail outlet acquisitions from our competitors and stability again fell.
and below par debt buybacks.
To date, the average return on the capital invested in the Belhaven again delivered a record result.
Within this environment there were excellent acquisitions is 19.4%, as we use our operating Revenue was up 11.7% to 151.9m with achievements in all of our businesses: we delivered expertise and brand strength to drive material operating profit up 8.3% to 32.7m record revenues close to 1bn, strong Retail uplifts in sales and profit.
Secondly, we have like-for-like-sales growth, second half profit continued investing in our estate, particularly Brewing Company has once again strongly per pub growth in Pub Partners, own-brewed in our leading pub restaurant brands, which has outperformed the UK ale market over the volume growth and another record profit from delivered exceptional returns in recent years.
Our own-brewed ale brands Belhaven.
We successfully balanced our revenue achieved volume growth of 3.6% against a growth with effective cost mitigation and margin The success of these initiatives has enabled market down 6.3% management to protect our margins and we Greene King to emerge from the recession in a generated sufficient cash to reduce our debt, pay stronger position to take advantage of the further As throughout this document, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
an attractive dividend and increase our targeted opportunities for growth and market share gains investment in our assets, brands and people.
Whilst risks still remain, this success gives us confidence to accelerate the pace of We are operationally focused on delivering change and growth at Greene King towards a outstanding value, exceptional service and more retail and branded focus.
unbeatable quality throughout Greene King.
CONSISTENT FoCuS Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 07 3.
Increase core beer brand investment The main elements of our strategy over the next Our recent success Deliver continued profitable growth in our three to five years are: branded beer business through additional gives us confidence investment in Greene King IPA, the UKs leading 1.
Expand branded retail to accelerate the pace cask ale, Old Speckled Hen, the UKs leading Drive growth through expanding our branded, premium ale and Belhaven Best, Scotlands food-led, retail estate.
We are targeting 1,100 of change and growth leading ale brand.
outlets, from our current base of 888, through a towards a more retail combination of acquisitions and internal transfers from tenancy.
We see opportunities for growth Overall, our aim is to be the best pub and and branded focus.
in our destination pubs and restaurants, pubs beer business in Britain and we believe this retail with rooms and traditional suburban pubs.
expansion and brand investment strategy will help us achieve that over the next three to five years.
Improve quality and reduce size of It will generate faster, profitable sales growth, tenanted estate supported by enhanced purchasing and operating Generate sustainable and improved rates synergies, to deliver a step change in our focus on of cash returns from a higher quality, more retail and increase our exposure to the long-term customer focused, tenanted estate.
As part of growth of the eating out market.
This acceleration this process, we will reduce the estate from our in our retail expansion will be financed through current base of 1,584 outlets to c. 1,200 through our existing funding headroom, the remaining a combination of disposals and transfers to retail.
rights issue proceeds and the accelerated tenanted We will further leverage our purchasing scale and disposal programme.
We will continue to generate retail infrastructure to deliver higher returns for strong trading cash flows to maintain our ongoing our licensees and our shareholders.
investment requirements, meet our debt obligations and pay dividends to shareholders.
Our focus in Retail is about delivering outstanding value, exceptional service and unbeatable quality across the different segments of our business an approach that enables us to consistently deliver a compelling customer offer, whilst ensuring local fit.
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 08 CHIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW ReTAil Our operational focus in Retail is on delivering outstanding value, exceptional service and unbeatable quality vSQ across the different segments of our business.
52 weeks 08 09 09 10 Change Average number of sites trading 779 778 -0.1% Revenue 569.5m 589.2m 3.5% EBITDA 139.8m 141.9m 1.5% Operating profit 105.6m 106.4m 0.8% Operating profit margin 18.5% 18.1% -0.4%pts EBITDA per site 179.5k 182.4k 1.6% Greene King Retail Our operational focus in Retail is on delivering Greene King Retail achieved record revenue of outstanding value, exceptional service and unbeatable 589.2m, 3.5% above last year, and operating quality VSQ across the different segments of our profit of 106.4m, up 0.8% on last year.
Within both of our Retail divisions we have LFL sales were also strong at 3.5%.
This was tailored our offer by brand or operating template.
driven by the repositioning of the estate towards This approach enables us to consistently deliver food, in which we achieved LFL sales growth of a compelling customer offer, whilst ensuring local 8.8%.
As a result, food has grown a further fit where necessary.
We also achieved full year growth in LFL drink sales and second half Hungry Horse 147 outlets growth in machine income.
Although operating Hungry Horse has had another exceptional year, margins fell 40bps in the year, due to mix and in which the brand has grown from 119 outlets first half cost pressures, second half margins at the start of the year to 147 by the year-end.
were in line with last year.
A key element of our It has delivered LFL sales growth of 11.6% this operational strategy in Retail is to reposition the year, following growth of 8.4% last year and the business towards long-term growth categories average weekly turnover AWT grew 7.7% to and all of our target product categories achieved 18.3k.
We have further improved our value growth in the year.
On a per pub basis, food sales offer this year, with 2 for 8 meal deals in the were up 10%, wine sales were up 7%, soft drink week and a 2 for 10 Sunday lunch deal.
This sales were up 5% and coffee sales were up 2%.
has helped to drive cover growth of 28%.
Food is now almost 50% of the sales mix.
We have We direct the greatest share of our capital introduced new technology to ensure consistent investment programme towards Retail as we 15 minutes food service time, which has helped focus on driving profitable sales growth via the to push Hungry Horse mystery guest scores expansion of our food-led pub restaurant brands.
above 90% for the first time, and we have In the year, we invested 20.6m of expansionary continued to innovate our food offer with new, capital, a further 24.4m was invested in maintaining quality dishes such as the Hells Chicken Burger.
our pubs and restaurants and 9.0m was spent on repairs from the revenue account.
We invested Old English Inns 101 outlets 13.4m in 43 Hungry Horse outlets, taking the Old English Inns OEI has also performed total number of Hungry Horse outlets to 147, well this year.
Following our investment in and we invested over 2m in 12 Old English Inns beds, breakfasts and bathrooms within our outlets, as we step up the pace of our redevelopment accommodation sites, the introduction of a 2 programme.
The Local Pubs sparkle programme for 9.95 meal offer across the estate and the has now covered 160 outlets with an average redesign and redevelopment of the brand, OEI investment of 49k per outlet.
We have now has delivered strong LFL sales growth of 4.6%.
invested in 54% of the Retail estate in the last Total cover growth of 13.0% more than offset three years, still leaving a significant opportunity an 8.0% decline in average spend per head.
for further investment and brand expansion.
We added further value to our meal offer by including starters and desserts and to our function ENHANCING vAlue Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 09 room offer through our Grand Wedding the year included Fish and Chips your way, now 17.0%, up 1.5%pts on last year, and we package, starting at 999.
We improved service adding flexibility to the customer offer and free grew both covers and spend per head in the year.
standards by introducing a part-table service side dishes for customers who were not offered Our Mainstream Locals segment benefits from its operational standard and we improved the one when they ordered their meal, driving convenience to our customers with particularly quality of the specialist whisky and gin ranges.
strong community and high street locations.
We introduced additional value through a food Loch Fyne Restaurants 44 outlets Premium Locals 123 outlets Rhythm of the Week offering daily meal deals Midway through the first half of the year, Premium Locals achieved total sales growth and offering Carlsberg at 1.99 per pint during we completed the integration of Loch Fyne of 9.0% in the year driven by LFL sales growth, selected sports events and we completed a Restaurants LFR into the Destination Division.
a strong underlying performance in our London comprehensive upgrade of our television screens, LFR has performed in line with the UK restaurant pubs and the acquisition of eight pubs from both internally and externally, well ahead of the sector this year with LFL covers down and spend Punch Taverns.
LFL food sales grew 10.6% and World Cup.
In line with our other brands, we food participation is now 27%.
Food growth have selectively introduced additional value to was due to both average cover growth of 5.7% value Locals 120 outlets our menu to drive cover growth at the planned and spend per head growth of 4.5% as we During the year, we took the most successful expense of the average meal price, while ensuring introduced better quality and targeted menus elements of our Local Savers Every Day Low we continue to deliver the high quality standards and incentivised employees on selling up starters, Pricing promotion and extended them across and service our customers expect from LFR.
We improved our female the whole Value Locals estate.
For example, appeal through a more attractive product range we introduced known-value item pricing such Hardys House 37 outlets including Prosecco, sharing platters and our as Carlsberg at 1.79 per pint, Ruddles at 1.59 Hardys House is a suburban, destinational exclusive and award-winning wine list.
per pint and Blossom Hill at 5.99 per bottle.
food-led brand, located predominantly in the Machine income was much improved in the year, Midlands and the north of England.
As with our Mainstream Locals 193 outlets helped by the speed of our implementation and other destination pub brands, Hardys House Mainstream Locals achieved LFL food sales up the quality of our merchandising around the 70 grew its covers strongly, up 11.6%, with average and LFL drink sales down.
Food participation is jackpot introduction.
spend per head in line with last year.
Initiatives in Value has become part of everyday life over the past two years and our Hungry Horse brand continues to delight by offering outstanding value in a family friendly environment.
Last year we invested over 13m in 43 Hungry Horse outlets taking the total number of these popular pubs to 147.
Visit the Retail division online ww7.
co. uk greeneking greeneking0910 retail Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 10 CHIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW PuB PARTneRS The inherent strengths of Pub Partners include: our geographic bias to the South East: our preference for tenancies over leases: our high quality assets: our relationship with our beer brands and our corporate brand: and our high standards of recruitment and training.
52 weeks 08 09 09 10 Change Average number of pubs trading 1,445 1,372 -5.1% Revenue 155.2m 145.1m -6.5% EBITDA 78.1m 71.8m -8.1% Operating profit 70.9m 64.6m -8.9% Operating profit margin 45.7% 44.5% -1.2%pts EBITDA per pub 54.0k 52.3k -3.2% Pub Partners with built-in tie flexibility 53% : and a ten to On an estate with 5.1% fewer pubs, revenue 25 year assignable lease, free of all wine, spirits was down 6.5% at 145.1m and operating profit and minerals WSM ties 20%.
Average EBITDA of all agreements are free of any WSM tie and per pub was down 3.2% but, in the second half only 55% of our licensees use a machine tie.
of the year, due to better volume trends, tighter controls and the impact of the non-core disposal Building on these strengths, we are now around programme, average EBITDA per pub was 0.2%.
halfway through our turnaround programme for During the year, 8.7m was invested in the Pub Partners, having made excellent progress, estate, the majority in the second half, of which particularly in the last six months, and we believe 4.7m was maintenance capex and 4.0m was Pub Partners is now leading the sector on expansionary capex, including our investment performance and stability.
There are clear in Brulines i-draught technology.
An additional indications of the business beginning to stabilise 2.0m was spent on repairs through the revenue and this is directly linked to a number of key account.
An average of 1,372 sites traded over initiatives we have taken through the recession the period.
At the start of the financial year, and in the last six months, including: 1,391 sites were trading, nine were transferred Investing in Brulines i-draught technology, G to Retail and 65 were sold, of which 38 were Creating the Independence Pub Company G being rolled out across 900 pubs in our estate, closed.
The closing balance was therefore IPC to separate out those pubs that required which has been mutually beneficial for us and 1,355 sites.
a more flexible, focused and practical approach.
This has helped drive improved There are currently 256 pubs in IPC, down beer volumes for Pub Partners and it has been The inherent strengths of Pub Partners include: from 404 at its launch, of which 83 have been instrumental in helping our licensees better manage our geographic bias to the South East, which disposed, eleven are closed for disposal and product quality, improve yield management offers relative protection from economic 54 have returned to the core estate.
We will and limit staff issues.
Post deployment, volume downturns: our preference for tenancies over re-integrate IPC back into the core estate uplifts are 5% ahead of our expectations.
leases, which facilitated the changes required during this year.
to stabilise the business: our high quality assets: Investing in improving the calibre of our G our relationship with our beer brands and our Investing an industry-leading level of tenant G senior operations team, combined with the corporate brand, which ensures a consistently financial support, totalling 5.1m or 3.7k per introduction of PDAs across the operations high level of service and quality to our licensees: pub this year, split between our Crunch Time team, which has enabled a step change in the and our high standards of recruitment and price initiative to drive licensee volume growth ways of working, effectiveness and efficiency training, which aims to ensure all of our pubs through enhanced value to their customers, in the field.
are run by talented, professional licensees.
and selective rent concessions and reductions to improve licensee profitability and cash flow.
The benefits from these initiatives and the strengths The simplicity and flexibility of our agreements Further product enhancements to Crunch Time, of the model have not only delivered an improved is also an attraction to prospective licensees.
which we have now rebranded Love Your financial performance trend for Pub Partners, they We offer three substantive agreements: a one Local, have also been introduced, including an have also helped to improve our key licensee health year foundation agreement for first-time licensees updated range of value-for-money food offers.
An industry-leading 93% of the estate is 20% : a three year rolling tenancy agreement now on substantive agreements, with 74 temporary agreements at the year-end, the reduction over the PROVIDING QuAliTy Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 11 Ensuring the right fit is crucial when it comes to matching people with the right pub in our tenanted and leased business.
Our detailed induction programme plays a key role in an on-going development plan in which our specialist tenant trainers also share their knowledge and experience with new licensees.
Visit the Pub Partners division online ww7.
co. uk greeneking greeneking0910 pubpartners second half helping to reduce the level of tenant tenanted business with the strongest retail support required.
There was just one pub closed for skills in the sector.
We will drive significant reopening at year-end, against 30 12 months ago, improvements amongst our licensees, our bad debts have reduced 40bps in 12 months to offers and our pubs to enhance Pub Partners 1.1% of sales and the average tenure of our licensees competitiveness through a repositioning has grown to three years and nine months.
Even though Pub Partners is now leading the Accelerate the rate of disposals and transfers, G industry in terms of performance and key licensee across both Pub Partners and Belhaven, to retail health measures, we believe there are still two to reduce the overall tenanted estate from 1,584 specific challenges that Pub Partners is facing in outlets currently to c. 1,200 outlets, ensuring a common with the whole tenanted sector: the capability to deliver sustainable cash returns for ongoing regulatory pressures on the tied model both our licensees and our shareholders.
and the long-term viability of many tenanted and leased pubs, given their comparatively weak offer We believe a smaller, more retail-focused against managed pubs, branded restaurants and business can ensure a profitable long-term future the supermarkets.
We have therefore decided for Pub Partners, allowing it to take an active role to implement two specific strategies to further in the development of Greene King.
Our plan to cement Pub Partners position as the best only operate high quality, sustainable pubs run by tenanted and leased operator in the UK: customer-focused licensees and supported by better control and direction from Pub Partners, Use our new Code of Practice as a catalyst should see Pub Partners move back into G for organisational change within Pub Partners.
sustainable per pub profit growth over the Our aim is to create the most customer-focused next 12 to 18 months.
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 12 CHIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW BelhAven Belhavens continued success in Scotland is built upon its unique focus on the Scottish market, its high quality pub estate, a strong and stable management team, support and investment from Greene King and, most crucially, a retention of its Scottishness.
52 weeks 08 09 09 10 Change Revenue 136.0m 151.9m 11.7% EBITDA 34.9m 38.4m 10.0% Operating profit 30.2m 32.7m 8.3% Operating profit margin 22.2% 21.5% -0.7%pts Continuing to invest in our pubs as well as our people is a key part of our success.
The Old Post Office in Livingston, a brownfield development, turned the old post office into the new heart of the community as an Eating Inn.
Visit the Belhaven division online ww7.
co. uk greeneking greeneking0910 belhaven Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 13 Belhaven Eating Inn.
Both drink and food LFLs were positive, In the last 18 months, there has been more with food up 15% in the year taking food participation change at Belhaven than in all the previous years to 29% of sales.
Including the impact of acquisitions, of Greene Kings ownership combined, including total sales grew 20% in the year, driven by senior management transition, the closure of the strategically important categories such as food bottling plant and a critical back-office integration 28%, wine 29%, soft drinks 19% and project.
Yet, notwithstanding this, Belhaven again coffee 21%.
We made a total of fourteen delivered a record result.
Revenue was up acquisitions in the year including packages from 11.7% to 151.9m with operating profit up Punch and Mitchells & Butlers.
The operating margin was well and in line with our expectations.
marginally behind last year in the second half of the year and ended the year at 21.5%, 70bps Our tenanted and leased business in Scotland down on last year, entirely due to changes in the has delivered a solid performance.
Profits grew strongly in both retail volumes were down, the wholesale margin per and brewing with underlying profit per pub only barrel and rent were both up, leading to gross marginally down in tenancies.
The number of profits in line with last year.
We have shared pubs trading grew from 325 to 334 and, on many of the learnings from Pub Partners average, 331 were trading during the year.
experiences since the recession hit and Belhavens tenanted business is well prepared Belhavens continued success in Scotland for any further economic pressure in Scotland.
is built upon its unique focus on the Scottish Licensee health measures have remained stable market, operating a high quality pub estate in throughout the year.
a fragmented market, supplemented by quality acquisitions, selling the leading ale and lager Belhaven Best, Scotlands no.
1 ale brand, has brands both within the Belhaven estate and to again led a strong performance from Belhavens its free trade customers, a strong and stable brewing division.
Best volumes grew 15.4% in management team, the ongoing support and the year, whilst our other own-brewed volumes investment from Greene King and, most grew 28%.
We therefore made significant market crucially, a retention of its Scottishness in a share gains and increased the awareness of the market in which this is highly valued.
We grew the number of free trade accounts by 8% to over 2,100 and In retail, Belhaven achieved LFL sales growth of we again came first in the annual Dram customer 5.5%.
This was led by the strong performance from service survey.
our destination food-led pub restaurant brand, CONTINUING inveSTmenT Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 14 CHIEF ExECUTIvES REvIEW BReWinG ComPAny Our success can be measured by the fact that we produce three of the top ten ales in the on trade and three of the top ten premium ales in the off trade.
52 weeks 08 09 09 10 Change Revenue 93.9m 97.9m 4.3% EBITDA 25.4m 25.6m 0.8% Operating profit 21.2m 21.4m 0.9% Operating profit margin 22.6% 21.9% -0.7%pts Brewing Company quality given our historic and long-term commitment Brewing Company has once again strongly to best ingredients and traditional brewing.
Over outperformed the UK ale market over the 85% of our barley is grown locally and malted last 12 months.
Our own-brewed ale brands within two miles of the brewery: our water is achieved volume growth of 3.6% against a drawn from artesian wells below the brew market down 6.3%, according to the BBPA.
house: our unique yeasts are cultivated on site As a result, our share of the ale market rose and 98% of the hops we use are English.
Sales to external channels the only brewer to have Red Tractor status across account for 80% of our own-brewed volumes all of our brands.
and all channels achieved volume growth in the year, with particularly strong performances from Greene King IPA continues to expand its national Free Trade and Take Home.
Our volume growth footprint, whilst maintaining its traditional heartland translated into revenue of 97.9m, 4.3% above in the south east of England.
Our innovative Cask last year, and operating profit of 21.4m, 0.9% Revolution font is now installed in over 1,000 outlets above last year.
Margins fell 70bps due to mix and we are planning to double that number this and higher input prices from third party suppliers.
It is generating a strong return on investment and, on average, increasing Greene King IPA Our aim is to be the best branded beer company outlet rate of sale by 9% over traditional fonts.
in England by delivering the best value, service and The brands status as Official Beer of England quality to our customers across all trade channels.
Rugby has been extended to 2012 and we Our success can be measured by the fact that we continue to sponsor Sale Sharks, Wasps, produce three of the top ten ales in the on trade Harlequins and grass roots rugby across and three of the top ten premium ales in the off the country.
Additionally, we won Cask Brewer of the Year in the Morning Advertisers Supplier Awards, Old Speckled Hen, which last year celebrated and more recently, we earned six Gold medals in its 30th anniversary, continues to strengthen the prestigious Monde Quality Awards.
its position, particularly through its advertising campaign on the Dave TV channel.
It is the We are strengthening our position through brand that ale drinkers most want to see on the continued market-leading investment: our bar next time they go to the pub and on the support of England Rugby: our focus on local shelves next time they go to the supermarket, provenance: and our advertising on Dave TV and it achieved volume growth of over 7% this Channel.
We concentrate brewing in one historic year.
In Take Home it has reached a 12% value but highly efficient brewery in Bury St Edmunds share and the brand now accounts for two thirds and focus our brand investment in Greene King of our exports, growing particularly strongly in the IPA, the countrys no.
1 cask ale: Old Speckled important US craft beer market.
1 premium ale: and Abbot Publican Brands Report, May 2010.
Nielsen, MAT value, Grocery Multiples, 12 June 2010.
HPI Cardinal Brand Tracking, April 2010.
We are well positioned to capture the benefits of the increasing interest in provenance and BUILDING BRAnDS Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 15 ouTlooK Current trading and outlook on responsible drinking, the tie and alcohol duty.
We have continued to trade strongly in the first Given the possible impact of the emergency eight weeks of the new financial year to 27 June, budget on consumer spending, trading conditions particularly in our retail operations.
Retail LFL are likely to remain challenging.
However, we are sales are 6.0% and Belhaven retail LFL sales confident that our current trading momentum are 1.5%.
Pub Partners continues to stabilise and our plans for future growth, underpinned with average EBITDA per pub broadly in line with by our high quality assets, industry leading brands last year.
Brewing Company total volumes are and talented people, will ensure that we deliver 3.6%, own-brewed volumes are 2.7% and another successful year for Greene King and Belhaven Best volumes remain strong at 7.1%.
The overall Greene King performance in the first two months of the year has been encouraging and ahead of our expectations for the period.
Rooney Anand Looking ahead, we are hopeful that the coalition Chief executive government will be more supportive of our industry 30 June 2010 and look forward to working closely with them Britains leading premium ale, Old Speckled Hen, is just one of our stable of famous beers, which includes Greene King IPA and Abbot Ale plus a host of special and seasonal beers.
Continuing to invest and build our three core brands is central to our strategy for our beers going forward.
Visit the Brewing Company division online ww7.
