Chief Executives Report serving freshly ground Fairtrade Trading performance coffee.
Great quality coffee at a Despite the tough trading price some 40 per cent below that conditions facing high streets of branded coffee operators is across the UK in 2010 we grew total proving increasingly popular with sales by 2.1 per cent compared our customers.
This is now available with the equivalent 52 week period in 1,100 of our shops and we will in 2009, including a 0.2 per cent complete the roll-out in 2011. increase in like-for-like sales.
During the year we were delighted Trading grew more diffi cult in to receive a number of awards, the second half of the year, and including being voted Best Bakery particularly in the fi final quarter, not and Sandwich Chain in Best helped by heavy snowfalls across Magazines British Food Awards, the country in November and while our mince pies were named December.
Record numbers of shop the UKs best by Woman magazine.
Whilst UK consumers continue to openings and investment in experience a very testing climate, refurbishments, including Growing margins one certainty is that they will the roll-out of our new shop increasingly seek out great value, Our operating margin increased by design, is making the shopping for which Greggs has a very strong 0.5 per cent compared with that in experience even more reputation.
We have continued to 2009, which was affected by the listen to our customers needs and additional costs of a 53rd week.
accessible and enjoyable responded by providing them with Other key drivers of our improved for both new and existing exceptional promotions, such as performance in 2010 included: customers.
Our focus on great our breakfast meal deal offering supply chain savings from value ensures that we are well coffee or tea combined with bacon implementation of our strategy positioned for the harsh times or sausage in a roll.
At only 1.99 prevailing in the wider economy, improved scheduling of labour this represents outstanding value compared with other food-on-thewhile our drive to improve a reduction in shop waste go retailers and we have now sold ef ciency has continued better buying more than 10 million breakfast rolls to deliver pro table growth for since they were launched.
a full years benefi t from our the bene t of all stakeholders actions in 2009 to reorganise the We also recognised that there in the business.
business, harmonise our product was an opportunity to strengthen range and create a single brand.
our offer in the growing breakfast market and have now extended our Our shops breakfast offer to include porridge, croissants, pain au chocolat, fruit During 2010 we broke our previous smoothies, and cheese and bacon records for the numbers of both net wraps, and made this the focus of shop openings and shop refi ts.
our current marketing campaign We opened a total of 93 new shops, for Greggs as The home of fresh delivering a net increase of 68 after baking.
25 closures, and giving us a total of Another feature of the year was the 1,487 shops at 1 January 2011. strong growth of hot drinks as we rolled out more coffee machines 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We have a healthy pipeline of new of shops that can be supplied from In the coming year there is more shops coming through and expect our existing bakeries.
In 2009 we scope to improve our business even further and we have embarked to add approximately 80 net new outlined a five year plan to reduce on three major change programmes shops in the course of 2011. the cost of supply to our shops by in order to drive sales and reduce The current property market 10 million.
conditions have increased the of manufacturing into centres of availability of more attractive sites excellence and investment in more Capital expenditure and are encouraging landlords to efficient processes we delivered take a more realistic view on rents.
savings of 1.4 million in 2010, Our total capital expenditure in ahead of our original plan.
2010 was 45.6 million 2009: 30.3 We completed 135 shop million reflecting our accelerated refurbishments in 2010, including Construction of our new bakery at rate of new shop openings and 28 using our new shop design.
Balliol Park in Newcastle upon Tyne refits, and the commencement of In the current year we will extend is progressing well.
The new facility investment in our supply chain to these new design refits outside the will be open and fully operational in support future growth.
In 2011 we London area with plans to refit a the second half of 2011, increasing plan to increase capital expenditure total of 60 across the UK in 2011. standards, efficiency and capacity to around 60 million, as we further We have seen good returns on when compared with our old accelerate the rate of new shop capital for our refits in 2010 and we Newcastle bakery.
We currently openings, around half of which plan to increase the total number of anticipate that this relocation may are likely to be in the new shop shop refits to 160 during 2011. result in a 1 million one-off charge design, complete even more in 2011.
Building has also started refurbishments, and undertake Our supply chain at our new centre of excellence the major phase of investment in for confectionery at Penrith, which One of our unique points of our new Newcastle and Penrith is due to become operational in bakeries.
difference is that we make the September 2011. majority of the food we sell.
This investment programme reflects As bakers we are at the very our strong confidence in the future We have also secured land and heart of producing our food and prospects of the business, and will planning permission to construct a therefore much closer than most be funded from our own cash flow.
new bakery in Wiltshire to support of our competitors to the source of our future growth plans in the South origin of our products.
We use our Corporate Social West.
bakery skills and expertise to make Responsibility great tasting food that offers our New operating structure I am really proud that in 2010 our customers great value.
people have been outstanding 2010 was our first full year with our Supplying the majority of our own once again at going that extra mile new central structure in place.
food means we are closer to the to do more for those who are less This has enabled increased ingredients and recipes and are fortunate.
We are also blessed capacity to open new shops, passionate about the quality of the with fantastic customers whose greater speed in reacting to market products we make.
This difference generosity during very difficult times conditions, tighter cost controls, means that we know whats is remarkable.
For this I would efficiency savings and simplicity in like to thank our people and our happening with our food right running our business.
customers so much for everything through from wheat to eat.
We have benefited from economies that they do to make such a The flexibility and controls that result of scale in purchasing and have difference to other peoples lives.
from having our own supply chain reduced costs through harmonising As an example of this we raised are significant strengths that we work practices in our supply chain.
an amazing 904,850 for the BBC are continuing to build on.
Over the Our marketing campaigns have Children in Need appeal during course of 2010 we have continued increased in impact and cost 2010, and also made significant to improve our supply chain effectiveness as the adoption of a donations to the Haiti and Pakistan efficiency and this has allowed us to single national brand means that disaster appeals.
increase the number they now benefit all our shops.
9 Chief Executives report continued operate.
In 2010 we launched the The community first Foundation Week in our shops, The Greggs Breakfast Clubs which raised 66,000 in support of are now in their eleventh year of these initiatives.
I continue to be operation, providing primary school hugely impressed with the Greggs children in disadvantaged areas Foundation and the great work it with free, nutritious breakfasts does across the UK.
We supply fresh bread from our local shops for toast, Our food along with funding for cereals, fruit We removed all artificial colours, BBC Children in Need and equipment.
By developing HVOs hydrogenated vegetable partnerships with other companies oils and added trans fats from our we were able to exceed our target own products by the end of 2009. of reaching 150 Breakfast Clubs in Last year we removed artificial 2010, and by the end of the year flavours from the majority of our we had a total of 161, feeding more products and work is continuing than 7,000 children each day.
The to remove them completely.
We success of the Clubs now being have worked relentlessly to try supported by other organisations, and ensure that in making these using the Greggs model, has changes our customers do not encouraged us to set a new goal of Greggs Breakfast Clubs experience any change in the great expanding to 300 Breakfast Clubs taste of the products they love.
as quickly as suitable partnerships can be developed.
The environment The Greggs Operating Board We have made significant progress also made a fantastic effort to in reducing the amount of food raise money for charity, with all its waste sent to landfill and achieved members taking part in The Great a 36 per cent reduction in the year.
Bakery Bike Ride, which attracted Following the installation of smart nearly 100 participants and raised meters designed to facilitate better 90,000 in aid of Children in Need monitoring and control of our and Greggs Breakfast Clubs.
Our energy usage we have achieved Finance Director Richard Hutton, a reduction in overall energy along with Robin Leaver and Paul consumption as measured on a per Ryan, covered a remarkable 900 shop basis.
The Greggs Foundation has During the year we were honoured continued to provide support to receive a Gold award in the of 50,000 per annum to the Health & Wellbeing category of Community Foundations innovative The Food and Drink Federation LEAF project, which makes grants Community Partnership Awards.
to charitable organisations to encourage people to take action on The Greggs Foundation has global environmental issues and to continued its outstanding work, promote sustainable living.
giving a record 1.4 million in grants to charitable and community organisations in the areas where we 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Great Bakery Bike Ride always been important to Greggs 5.8 million through our profit including like-for-like sales of 0.4 and is deeply rooted in our culture.
sharing scheme, which has been per cent.
Whilst profits in the first I am grateful to all our people distributing 10 per cent of our half will have to bear the impact for their continued determination profits each year since its inception of additional bank holidays when to put something back into the in 1985. compared to 2010 we expect the communities where we operate, year as a whole to be one of further Outlook for 2011 and congratulate them on their progress for Greggs.
The year ahead will continue to Greggs has a clear vision: To be be challenging with rising global the number one for sandwiches These and other issues are covered commodity prices being reflected in greater depth in our Corporate and savouries from a united team in significant upward pressure on who are passionate about being Social Responsibility Report on many of the key ingredient costs pages 12 17. the best in bakery.
By virtue of all food producers.
However, we of its strong value positioning, Our people expect to continue making Greggs excellent products, outstanding even more efficient and as part of staff and clear strategy for growth, I am profoundly grateful to our this we are dedicating resources with increasing investment in our people for everything they do to to indentify and unlock further cost shops and supply chain funded serve our customers each day.
from our own cash flow I believe There could be no better illustration that Greggs is well placed for the of the extraordinary spirit and Total sales in the year ahead will challenges ahead.
I look forward to commitment of our people than the benefit from a growing contribution giving consumers greater choice by example of the shop manager in from new selling space as our opening more shops across the UK, Scotland who was so determined expansion programme accelerates, and to Greggs continuing to make to open her shop during the severe with the opening of around 80 a strong contribution to society as snow in December that she walked net new shops during the year, a whole through adherence to our 14 miles to get there and ended financed from our own strong long-established family values.
the working day by walking another cash flow.
In addition to the total 14 miles home.
At the same time sales growth I believe marginally workers who were unable to get positive like-for-like growth during Kennedy McMeikan home slept in our bakeries in the year is achievable.
Performance Chief Executive order to keep our supply chain in the year to date is in line with 16 March 2011 functioning for our customers.
our expectations, with total sales for the ten weeks ended 12 March I am particularly pleased that this 2011 increasing by 3.8 per cent, 11 year our staff are sharing a record
