Directors report Business review: chief executives strategic revieW ready to capitalise on the upturn 1.
Cash, profit and productivity maximisation Throughout the recession, we have In the first half of the year, the clear priority was cost control.
Where necessary, we reduced headcount and over the first half been unwavering in our commitment Group consultant headcount declined by 4%, bringing the total to build a stronger, broader based reduction from peak to 32%.
Later in the year as we saw markets stabilise and recover, we quickly moved from cost reduction into and more efficient business.
investment mode, initially in Asia Pacific and then into other important markets including Germany and Brazil.
Our ability to capitalise on this shift in the markets enabled us to increase revieW of 2010 operating profit by 23% in the second half versus the first half.
2010 was a year of two very distinct halves.
After a challenging 2009, we started 2010 with markets continuing to present At the same time, we maintained our focus on cash generation, some of the most difficult conditions on record.
The scale and delivering another strong cash performance for the year with pace of the decline in our markets during the downturn was 97% conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow.
In little more than 12 months our global 2.
Increasing market share permanent placement business halved.
Our UK private sector Recessions provide opportunities for strong businesses to fees declined by 58% from their peak and many parts of our reinforce their market position and this is what we have achieved international business suffered even more severely.
Against this over the year.
We have concentrated our resources on the more backdrop, our immediate goal was to defend our business as resilient parts of the market and developed our services to ensure robustly as possible and protect profitability by controlling costs.
they are relevant to our clients in an evolving marketplace.
This The second half of the year was very different as recovery in has allowed us to continue to grow parts of our business despite key markets started to gain momentum.
The recovery started in the prevailing economic backdrop.
Our Pharma business, Australia and Asia and, as the year progressed, broadened across for example, grew net fees by 35% versus last year as we rolled Europe and the Americas.
Our focus shifted accordingly and, for out these services across our international network.
Despite the the first time in over 18 months, we started to reinvest in building pressures on the UK public sector, our Healthcare and Education our consultant base to ensure we captured the recovery fully businesses also grew at 29% and 4%, respectively, as we made in each market.
It is very encouraging that these early signs further inroads into these markets.
of recovery have become more widespread and more firmly Around the world, several of our larger clients have sought ways entrenched in most of our markets and consequently we of consolidating their supplier base for their recruitment needs delivered a material rebound in profits during the second half, and looked to partner with organisations who can serve them finishing the year with a strengthening outlook in over 90% of across multiple job categories and sometimes multiple countries.
This client-driven evolution in the market plays to our strength in strategic progress in 2010 international coverage and sectoral diversification and we have Last year I set out four key areas of focus for the Group.
These developed our capabilities to best address these opportunities.
objectives were designed to balance the short-term necessities of As a result we have further enhanced our market-leading position, cash, profit and productivity maximisation with the longer-term for example winning multi-service contracts with Bank of America strategic goals of increasing market share, strengthening our and JP Morgan in the UK financial services market, the Audit brand and completing the roll-out of world-class IT systems.
Commission and Department for Business, Enterprise and I am pleased to say that we have made considerable progress Regulatory Reform BERR in the UK public sector, Goodyear in each area.
in China, JDSU across Europe and Asia, and Sony in Europe.
Our strategy and ability to capture the majority of all professional recruiting needs for major organisations such as these will be a key driver of growth and market share as recruitment volumes recover.
Finally, as mentioned earlier, gaining market share means investing in our consultant base.
By investing quickly in headcount growth in recovering markets around the world and redeploying consultants into more resilient markets, net fees grew by 8% in the second half versus the first half.
10 Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance remuneration report Governance Financial statements 3.
Complete roll-out of IT systems Technology is a key tool to allow our consultants to do a better, key characteristics that Will drive faster, and more expert job for their customers.
Our ability to hays long-term groWth best match a clients need with the very best person for the job is a function of our consultants skill, the calibre of candidates pure play specialist recruitment we attract and the quality of their systems to find that perfect 558m net fees 270 offices match.
Having the very best systems is an important competitive advantage and I am pleased to say we have now substantially market-leading positions completed the global roll-out of our new front-office systems.
Top 3 in our core markets No.
1 worldwide We have also substantially completed our UK back-office automation project.
The new system is live and provides attractive markets WorldWide automated timesheet, payment and billing processes as Strong long-term growth drivers well as real-time management information for driving our business.
We have taken considerable costs out of our UK business model replicates administrative functions, improved our customer service and, Self-funding growth low expansion risk importantly, put in place a system with real economies of scale which will deliver significant returns as UK volumes recover.
balanced portfolio 28 countries 17 specialisms temp & perm 4.
Strengthen our brand position Leading companies have leading brands and 2010 saw the launch strong cost control of our new brand positioning: Recruiting experts worldwide.
Market-leading CR% flexible cost base By exploiting our brand we aim to raise the profile of our business wherever we operate, differentiate ourselves from our competitors state of the art technology and better communicate our unique expertise to our customers.
Market-leading IT systems The real value of our brand though is in our ability to embed and deepen our expertise in everything we do to continually improve proven management the service experience for our clients and candidates.
The quality Underpinned by Hays DNA of our brand ultimately depends on the quality of the service our consultants provide and that is why a large proportion of our highly cash generative investment this year has been focused on further strengthening Low capital intensity surplus cash returned our training programmes.
This has ranged from standardising our induction and technical training for consultants, and deepening our sector expertise skills through to the launch of the ManagementDirect to develop our management and leadership capability in conjunction with the Chartered Institute of Management and leading international business schools.
The benefit of these investments will be realised through improved customer satisfaction which, in turn, will deliver increased market share and fees.
However, it is rewarding to see our efforts recognised and we have won several industry awards including Best Temp Interim Recruitment Firm for Hays UK Financial Markets and Best Use of Online Recruitment at the 2010 UK Online Recruitment Awards.
Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 11 Directors report Business review: chief executives strategic revieW This year will be about exploiting the opportunities in the upturn.
We have dealt with the recession well, now we must capitalise on the momentum we are seeing in most of the markets in which we operate.
Leverage the brand priorities for 2011 Last year we launched the brand.
This year we will entrench it Our unwavering objective is to build the pre-eminent global into everything we do across the world.
This means investment business in professional recruitment and we aim to do that in more training, the development of new initiatives to enhance regardless of the economic backdrop.
To achieve this, our our customer service delivery, promoting our expertise in the strategy revolves around four components: growing our business professional employment marketplace and the development by replication, improving operational effectiveness, developing of thought-provoking and expert insights into key skills and the best people in the industry and applying the Hays Way of employment issues in each of our markets around the world.
doing things consistently across the world.
This translates into Our entire business is based upon finding the right person for the following key areas of focus for 2011: our clients needs.
That is a hugely valuable service to provide 1.
Continue international diversification and we intend to be the undisputed experts in the professional The long-term opportunities to develop a number of international employment marketplace so all of our branding efforts will be markets are substantial.
Over the years we have demonstrated directed at this goal.
our ability to capitalise on the structural changes in these 4.
Attract, retain and develop the best people markets, growing our international fees by 38% in 2007 and 54% We are in an industry where the limiting factor on growth is not in 2008.
Five years ago we were a business dominated by our capital but people and their capabilities.
Attracting, developing UK operations with only a quarter of our fees earned overseas.
and retaining the best people is critical to our success.
That is why Today, 60% of our fees are delivered from our international we invested throughout the downturn to reinforce our training markets and we expect this diversification to continue.
programmes and we will continue to do so as our business Our goal is to more than double our international consultant recovers.
Our aim is to strengthen and broaden all aspects of headcount within the next five years and we are on track to our capability, from new consultants through to senior leaders, deliver that objective.
We are continuing to add headcount across and ensure we can pursue more growth opportunities in parallel Asia Pacific, Germany and Brazil and expect to reinvest in the during the next cycle of growth.
remainder of Continental Europe as the recovery gains traction.
bob lawson We also plan to expand into new geographies over the year.
As we announced in July, Bob will retire from the Board and In the US, we will open operations in New Jersey to service our step down from his role as Chairman in November.
On behalf pharmaceutical clients initially.
Following the tremendous success of everyone at Hays I would like to thank Bob for the great of our Brazilian business, we will commence our regional roll-out commitment and leadership he has brought to the Group over across South America with a launch in Mexico.
Bob oversaw the transformation of Hays from 2.
Drive productivity and efficiency gains a conglomerate to a world-leading specialist recruitment business Having installed the core systems, we are now focussed on and was also instrumental in developing our company from being harnessing the full capacity of our new technology to drive a principally UK business into an international group which now consultant productivity, increase efficiency and enhance operates in 28 countries and generates the majority of fees from customer service.
On a personal level I have immensely enjoyed working with Bob over the past three years and I would like to We are also working on enhancing our online presence and thank him for allowing me to benefit from his depth of knowledge providing our customers with a rich and user-friendly way of and experience, together with his wise counsel and good humour.
engaging with us via the internet.
The internet is already a very On behalf of all my colleagues, I wish him all the very best of luck important channel for us, but we aim to develop our online in the future.
content and transactional capability further.
Equally, our new state-of-the-art systems allow us to develop multiple platforms to communicate with clients and candidates in the way they choose.
Hence, we have introduced applications developed specifically for the iPhone and iPad and we will continue to adapt our online presence for mobile platforms where appropriate.
12 Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance remuneration report Governance Financial statements I am also pleased to welcome to the Group Alan Thomson who The key change is one of emphasis.
Whilst last year was primarily will become our new Chairman following the Annual General about limiting the impact of the recession and strengthening the Meeting in November.
Alan brings a wealth and depth of platform for future growth, this year will be about exploiting the international experience both from his current roles as Chairman opportunities in the upturn.
We have dealt with the recession well, of Bodycote plc, Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee now we must capitalise on the momentum we are seeing in most Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc and non-executive director of of the markets in which we operate.
Alan joins us at a very exciting time in our journey and will bring a major contribution to our business.
summary alistair cox Throughout the recession, we have been unwavering in our Chief Executive commitment to build a stronger, broader based and more efficient business.
Last year we ring-fenced and delivered on our key investment projects, despite tough trading conditions.
This LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at year our strategy remains substantially unchanged: to continue constant currency.
There were the same number of trading days in 2010 and 2009. our international diversification and to build on the investments Before exceptional items.
we have made in the areas of IT, marketing and people development.
Excludes cash impact of exceptional items of 4.1 million paid in the year.
summary of the group strategy groWth by replicating operational effectiveness new specialisms in existing locations leverage front-office technology build scale in existing locations to increase consultant productivity new territories in existing and employ new UK back-office new countries technology to increase service levels and efficiencies one hays around the World develop our online capability a globally consistent customer further develop Corporate experience Accounts capability a leading global brand best people in the industry recruit, engage and retain the best industry-leading training world-class leadership development performance based culture our strategy in action On the following pages, case studies provide examples of how we are developing our business by: building our presence in new specialisms in Germany: adding more teams in existing locations in Asia: rolling out our Pharma capability across our international network: and moving our business into new geographies in South America.
Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 13
