Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CHief exeCUtive offiCers review GrowtH tHroUGH diversifiCAtion in 2010, HiKmA ContinUed its trACK reCord of doUBLinG sALes every foUr yeArs.
tHis sUCCess rests on tHe HArd worK ofHiKmA emPLoyees GLoBALLy And HiKmAs diversifiedBUsiness modeL said darwazah Chief Executive Officer 12 Section Two: How are we delivering on our strategy?
2 oUr strAteGy for GrowtH % %% %%% strengthen develop extend increase Leverage Build on our our leading our global our reach and the scale our expertise world-class position in product diversity as a of our and capacity manufacturing the menA range partner of speciality in the Us and APi region in growing choice in injectables market sourcing therapeutic the menA business capabilities areas region strengthening our leading position extending our reach and diversity in themenA region through partnerships Our position as the leading regional company We continue to deliver a strong performance in the fast growing MENA pharmaceutical from our in-licensed products, which grew by market continued to offer excellent opportunities 14.7% in 2010, reinforcing our position as the in 2010.
We delivered a strong performance licensing partner of choice in the MENA region.
inour top markets, continued to develop our The development of our in-licensed portfolio product portfolio, made further investment isan integral part of our growth strategy and is insales and marketing and successfully akey lever for developing our capabilities in completed two acquisitions.
Across all our 17 MENA markets, we The strategic partnership with Celltrion remained focused on developing our local that we agreed in 2010 was a major presence.
By providing jobs, bringing technical achievement.
Through this partnership, we skills, raising quality standards and training staff, plan to introduce nine biosimilar products, we are helping to build global pharmaceutical including four in oncology, into the MENA industries in each of our local markets, while markets.
With Celltrions unique biosimilar at the same time creating new opportunities portfolio and our strong reputation for quality, for Hikma.
we will be in an excellent position to lead themarket in these important products in developing our global product range theMENA region.
in growing therapeutic areas Our product portfolio continues to grow with 22 new compounds and 38 new dosage strengths and forms marketed and sold in 2010.
A further 230 approvals across all regions and markets will enable us to maintain a steady stream of new product launches in 2011.
Our portfolio also continues to develop in new therapeutic areas, with new launches inoncology, central nervous system, diabetes and respiratory.
13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CHief exeCUtive offiCers review Continued strenGtHen oUr LoCAL PresenCe tHroUGH ACQUisition Tunis, Tunisia in march 2010, we took a controlling equityinterest in the tunisian pharmaceutical company ibnAlBaytar, enablingus to accelerate our penetrationofthe local market.
take advantage of some exceptional market Khalid Nabilsi, VP Finance, has taken over increasing the scale of our speciality injectables business opportunities.
While the level of competition asChief Financial Officer.
Michael Raya, inthe US remains high, we believe this Corporate Vice President and CEO West-Ward, The acquisition of Baxters Multi-Source Injectables business, agreed in October2010, marketwill continue to offer exciting assumed the responsibility of Executive opportunities and we are committed to VicePresident and CEO of the USA, with will be transformational for ourInjectables business, significantly enhancing the scale pursuing these opportunities.
responsibility for all theactivities of the Groupinthis region and RiadMishlawi, and scope of our global Injectables platform.
maintaining our world class MSIwill add a high-quality, complementary  Operations, assumed manufacturing capabilities the position of EU VicePresident andGlobal injectables portfolio including excellent critical Quality remains a key differentiating factor care products and DEA controlled substances.
These appointments reflect across our business.
In 2010, our commitment the increasing scaleand internationalisation Itwill position Hikma asthe second largest to upholding the highest quality standards generic injectables supplier by volume in the ofthe Group andwill support Hikmas inmanufacturing helped to create new continued growth.
USwith a combined market share of more opportunities in the very competitive US than 15%.
It will bring well qualified and market, both for our Generics and Injectables Looking ahead experienced operational and sales teams businesses, and in both the US and Europe for On the back of these strong results, we entered withexcellent technical skills and customer contract manufacturing.
We continued our 2011 with good momentum across all our relationships and will increase our high quality track record of successful regulatory inspections businesses.
The events of early 2011 inthe injectables manufacturing capacity and in 2010, most notably by receiving FDA MENA region have led us to be more cautious distribution capabilities.
approval for our oncology manufacturing on the short-term outlook for our Branded facility in Germany.
We are very optimistic aboutthe Leveraging our expertise and capacity in theUs market longer-term opportunities that economic strengthening our organisational structure reform can bring and our commitment to the For a second consecutive year, the performance In January 2011, we announced some important ofour Generics business has exceeded our MENA region has not changed.
Wecontinue changes to the senior management team.
to believe in the excellent long-term growth expectations.
Through our commitment to Bassam Kanaan, Chief Financial Officer, was quality and service, we have continued to potential of the MENA region and we will appointed President and Chief Operating continue to invest inbuilding our unique growour core business in the US and to take Officer for the MENA and EU regions.
market share from our competitors.
At the localpresence, both organically and throughacquisitions.
same time, we have been well positioned to 14 Section Two: How are we delivering on our strategy?
2 We are confident that we cancontinue to HiKmAs Key PerformAnCe indiCAtors deliver strong performances inour Injectables KPis definition 2009 2010 and Generics businesses.
Wehave made Revenue growth Percentage increase significant investments in these businesses 9.7% 14.8% ordecrease in the in recent years, we now have very experienced currentyears revenue management teams in place and we see compared to the prior numerous opportunities for growth.
We also years revenue have the integration of the MSIbusiness tolook forward to and the transformation Operating profit growth measures how 3.4x 1.7x revenue growth revenuegrowth thisbusiness will bring to both our global translates into growth Injectables and US businesses.
inoperating profit Overall, we are very positive on the potential for 2011 and for the longer-term prospects for the Group and expect to Total working measures the average 230 205 continue our track record of doubling Group capitaldays number ofdays to sales every four years.
convert working capital intorevenue Return on measures the Groups 10.6% 12.4% investedcapital efficiency in allocating capital to profitable investments said darwazah Chief Executive Officer New product launches new pharmaceutical 24 22 compounds launched across the Group 15
