REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chief Executives statement Th e results for both Argos and Homebase exceeded initial expectations as we traded through the year.
We have achieved further market share gains, growth and underlying operating cost in ation, our cost base has been reduced by 64m, or 3%.
demonstrated our commitment to remaining This is equivalent to cost productivity of highly price competitive and controlled costs approximately 135m or 7%, and has been extremely tightly to support both operating achieved while measures of customer service pro t and cash generation.
Our approach and operational standards have been maintained over the last year has also prepared us for the or improved.
year ahead, which is likely to remain dif cult The net result of consumer spending and for UK retail.
By continuing to invest and product cost pressures, largely offset by the constantly develop our multi-channel excellent cost management across the Group, leadership and differentiated formats, we was benchmark operating pro t down by just will retain our competitive advantage and 11m, or 4%, to 290m.
therefore remain well placed for the future.
Through our continued focus on cash generation, and building upon the successful The Group has achieved a good outcome in a track record since demerger, a further 130m of challenging year, delivered by our appropriate net cash was generated during the year.
Working approach on an operational, financial and Terry Duddy capital continued to be managed tightly, at the strategic basis.
Going forward, we will be Chief Executive same time as we have maintained or improved increasing our investment in the businesses, and measures of product availability for customers.
given the Groups strong cash generation, we will The closing cash position of 414m is also after also be returning capital to our shareholders by 87m of net capital expenditure that included way of a share buy-back programme.
Home continued investment in growth initiatives, and Retail Group, as the UKs leading home and payment of a maintained 126m dividend for general merchandise retailer, will continue to our shareholders.
demonstrate clearly its competitive advantage and its strong financial position.
Approach to the last 12 months Given the challenges and uncertainty at the Good outcome in a challenging year start of the financial year, cautious planning Household spending and consumer con dence assumptions were used by the businesses in have been severely hit.
Hard goods and those order to set targets for both stock levels and products more closely linked to the housing Hear Terry talking about the costs.
This did not constrain the outcome for the market have suffered the most.
In the year to Groups performance in year: both Argos and Homebase demonstrated February 2010, market data indicates that retail our illustrated review, the exibility of their operating models to sales declined by 3.7% in household goods available online at meet the better than expected demand.
The stores the ONS measure that estimates retail www.
com signi cant cost actions over the last 12 months sales across furniture, homewares, electricals reports to volume-adjust or gain further ef ciencies and DIY-related categories.
The aggregate throughout the cost base have also improved value of the product markets in which the the exibility of our businesses for the future.
Group operates declined by approximately The Group has remained absolutely 3%, to 58bn.
Home Retail Groups total sales committed to delivering customer value during increased by 125m or 2.1% over the same the consumer slowdown.
All UK retailers in our period.
Importantly, Argos and Homebase product markets have been impacted by the have held or increased market share in virtually weakness of sterling, but the Group targeted a all of their individual product markets.
level of customer price in ation that aimed to In addition to reduced consumer spending pass on the impact of cost of goods in ation in in our product markets, the year also brought absolute terms.
This cash gross margin approach signi cant challenges in terms of product cost resulted in our businesses remaining highly price pressures driven principally by the weakened competitive, although the gross margin rate value of sterling.
This in ationary pressure has reduced as a consequence.
been successfully managed while remaining Given customer trends through the highly price competitive for our customers.
downturn, Argos and Homebase have been To further offset these challenges, signi cant further adapting the customer offer in terms of cost actions have been taken across the Group.
product development and range architecture, Despite cost increases attributable to volume Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 9 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chief Executives statement continued pricing and promotional activity, and the wider Competitive advantage and financial strength customer service proposition.
For example, Home Retail Group is the UKs leading home and we strengthened own brand ranges, added more general merchandise retailer, with clear scale products to save consumers money on their advantage and well invested infrastructure built household bills, and made further improvements up over a period of many years.
We continue to to our multi-channel convenience.
Argos and expect a return to attractive growth rates in Homebase also continue to bene t from their spending in our product markets in due course, widespread customer appeal, broad product driven particularly by the long-term trend of offerings and relatively high purchase frequency.
consumers investing in their home environment and from the pace of technology and other Increasing our investment plans product development.
Argos and Homebase Looking forward, capital expenditure will increase are further strengthening their customer in the next financial year to 125-150m from propositions ahead of the market recovery, 87m in the year just ended.
While we will open investing in expanding choice, developing ranges fewer new stores, we see signi cant opportunities and enhancing product presentation in store, for further multi-channel, customer offer and in catalogues and online.
format developments: these include expanded Both formats are well positioned and clearly online product ranges and new tools and services differentiated from other retailers.
Argos will on the Argos and Homebase websites, as well as maintain its leadership as a truly multi-channel, the Argos brand refresh and store refurbishment value-orientated format across a wide range of programmes.
These opportunities will ensure product categories, distinct from the more our businesses are well invested and positioned service-orientated models of specialists or the to continue leading the way in delivering the more adjunct offerings of the supermarkets.
most appropriate home and general merchandise Homebase will continue to be differentiated with shopping experience of the future.
a more style-led offer across a broader range of home enhancement categories.
Share buy-back programme The Groups scale supports our price As a separately listed company, Home Retail competitiveness relative to most other retailers Group has demonstrated four successive years operating in the same product markets.
The of strong cash generation and has returned Groups skills and infrastructure, particularly in approximately 500m to shareholders by way of overseas product sourcing and multi-channel dividends over this period.
While the Board intends operations, will also leverage financial bene ts to maintain a prudent approach to balance sheet and synergies which are dif cult to replicate management, the strong cash position has created given the investment required and period of time the opportunity to continue investing in valueover which these competitive advantages have enhancing growth opportunities while also been established.
In particular, our highly returning capital to shareholders.
Over the next developed sourcing operations enable the Group 12 months up to 150m of shares are expected to deal more competitively with cost of goods to be bought back.
The Board will continue to pressures that all retailers in our product markets regularly review the Groups capital structure.
experience, as well as support improvements in our range architectures, particularly in the ability to provide great value own brands on a directly sourced basis.
Our businesses continue to adapt Our businesses continue to adapt well to the consumer environment and are delivering share well to the consumer environment gains in their markets.
Given our strong financial position, we are investing ahead of the recovery and are delivering share gains in their in the wider economy and, more speci cally, recovery in consumer demand.
Given our strong fi financial remain con dent in the Groups ability to deliver growth in shareholder value over the long term position, we are investing ahead of by maintaining our clear competitive advantage as the UKs leading home and general the recovery in the wider economy merchandise retailer.
and, more specifi cally, recovery in Terry Duddy Chief Executive consumer demand.
10 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010
