Chief executives statement Howdens is cash-generative: market Clearly we are pleased with Howdens go on being attractive for a long beating: vertically functioning: lowoutstanding performance over the time.
And that is what we have, cost: and it has growth prospects.
This is a resilient business, and because what Howdens does is it has proved consistently successful make money for builders, and that in delivering results that reflect the is an irresistible proposition.
strength of our business model.
As you can see from our accounts, This model is encapsulated in last year Howdens generated a net our mission statement: cash inflow of over 30m after payment of legacy property and to supply from local stock, pension deficit costs.
This was nationwide, the small builders achieved because we successfully ever-changing routine kitchen and delivered over 400,000 kitchens, joinery requirements, assuring no-callvia a network of nearly 500 depots back quality and best local price.
across the country, to the small builders who installed them in This has been the guiding homes in their local area.
statement of our business since it was founded in 1995 and it Last year, we opened 27 new depots, continues to serve us well.
and we are very encouraged by their early performance.
Howdens depots Howdens was designed from are locally managed.
Each depot is scratch with the needs of the responsible for growing its own 10 What Howdens does is make small builder in mind.
The first job of a new money for builders, and that is still our absolute focus.
depot is to open trade accounts.
Accounts are continuously The business today has some monitored, and any account not important defining features.
traded for 15 months is closed.
Howdens is cash-generative: market-beating: vertically This active management means we functioning: low-cost: and it has need to be constantly replenishing the growth prospects.
I am going to number of accounts.
Last year we discuss the business under each closed 30,000 accounts and opened of these five headings, and I will 50,000, bringing the net total to over also examine what it is that allows 200,000 credit accounts by the year us to deliver exceptional results end.
Most of our accounts are relatively and that is a defining culture.
small, and significant exposure to one customer is limited.
Our credit First, for the business to produce control department is very active, cash, it needs to have low costs and the cost of managing accounts, of property, of product and of including all debt recovery and bad processes.
But at the same time debts, remains only 1.5% of sales.
as having low costs, it needs to have a very attractive product, and more My second theme is why Howdens than a product.
It needs to have a can beat the market.
Since the very attractive proposition that will business started in 1995, we have Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 remained totally focused on Our new product introductions have We have a responsibility to providing what the small builder been very successful.
We develop our customers to help them wants, which is a constant supply new product by listening to what install working kitchens of product that is: builders and our designers tell us successfully and profitably.
about what works for them, and well designed: what they can sell to end-users, and easy to sell: then we move fast to introduce it.
attractive: We need to make sure our product good quality: sells in volume, because we never forget that we must generate cash, robust: not only to deliver margin and to relevant: power the growth of the business, available from stock but also to continue to pay down when required: the legacy liabilities.
on credit terms: and At the scale we have today, we at attractive prices that lead and influence the market.
allow the builder to run We have a responsibility to our a profitable business.
customers to help them install working kitchens successfully We have worked very hard to get our and profitably.
Every part of offer right, and we are continually 11 Howdens business and every improving our product.
Last year we person working in Howdens is extended what we call the product geared towards that idea.
families, introducing 12 new options during the year in order to maximise That means we have to have a the potential of our best-selling seamless operation, from sourcing ranges.
The families concept is of consistent raw materials through designed to make the builders life to low cost manufacturing and easier.
Range content is standardised, efficient distribution, ensuring which allows the designer to mix and constant availability so that we match colours, finishes, cornices and can provide the best possible accessories, knowing everything will service and value, day in, day fit, which obviously makes selection out, in all our depots.
easier for the end user to whom the Over the past five years, we have builder is selling the kitchen.
invested in improving our systems We should remember that the throughout our manufacturing, end-user can be an owner-occupier, warehousing and depots.
This has a private landlord, a small developer, led to much improved stock a council or a housing association, accuracy, which is of critical because the small builder goes importance, since Howdens is an where the work is: he serves all in-stock business.
We must have parts of the market.
stock available all the time.
Chief executives statement continued The concept of low cost is Our systems do not stop at stock per square foot, which is nothing interconnected with the value control.
We have the latest kitchen like retail rent.
Our advertising that Howdens offers the builder.
design software and a sophisticated budget, whilst it has increased to intranet which helps depot staff to support the builders selling efforts, find detailed product specifications, is still only a fraction perhaps 10% keep up-to-date with new at most of what a retailer would products, and sell more of our consider necessary to spend.
The product range to our customers.
only home delivery we do is when the builder pays for it.
We have no fitters, We continue to invest in Howdens no seven-day working, no showrooms systems.
They ensure stable, and very little stock write off.
Depot predictable, integrated operations stock is the responsibility of the staff that make many aspects of our in each depot, and if it goes missing business hard to replicate, and they it is deducted from the managers are readily scalable to support our bonus.
We have virtually no stock loss.
We feel confident that our model We are clear that ownership of works, so we are planning not to manufacturing has provided and change it.
We are going to do more will continue to provide us with of the same.
By doing so, we believe many opportunities.
We know we have more scope to grow than we must ensure reliable access we had originally envisaged.
We to lowest cost production, which 12 We feel confident that our have made a detailed study of the does not mean lowest price product.
model works, so we are range of performance we observe It means the best possible cost, planning not to change it.
in our existing depots, and we have and therefore margin opportunity, concluded that this range presents for product which consistently us with many opportunities.
meets our required quality and defined specification.
For a depot to be viable, it only needs around 300 accounts, and The concept of low cost is its breakeven point is well below interconnected with the value that 1m of sales.
The builders idea of Howdens offers the builder, ensuring expected travel time is telepathy, that the job can be done easily and but since were not telepathic yet, quickly and that the money can be we can translate that as less than collected from the end-user.
So we can conclude that not only is there room for us to Howdens is not a retail business, grow, but that people want us to grow.
which means we avoid a lot of the costs associated with retailing.
We are confident that there are many Our depot fit-out costs are currently areas of the country where we have running at around 170,000 per scope to open more depots and depot, which bears no relation to the more accounts.
For example, we average costs of fitting out a retail have recently opened depots in showroom.
Our rent is around 5 established towns like Newquay Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 and Windsor.
We are clear that we to sell and fit?
There are many areas of the country can move from 500 to at least 650 where we have scope to open Does it help him make money?
depots, at an average pace of more depots and more accounts.
How does it complement our around 30 per year, which we existing product?
know from experience makes for successful openings.
Can we guarantee consistent quality, availability and value?
The business also benefits from the Can we make and sell it in long maturity profile of Howdens volume to ensure lowest cost depots.
Depots typically go on production?
growing for at least seven years after opening.
During that time, the depot To support our product offering, has opportunities to grow sales per we will also be doing more work person, to increase margin, to open on understanding the benefits of more accounts and to benefit from verticality.
Manufacturing and its improved product performance.
infrastructure will require capital investment to support growth.
We We are continuing to develop new need to be sure that the decisions product in line with our successful we make support not only price, family strategy, and extending the availability and quality, but also family concept further with the our reputation for product choice, upcoming introduction of matching knowledge and innovation.
13 joinery doors, architrave, skirting and hardware, all of which is I hope I have made it clear that the exclusive to Howdens.
opportunities for growth in Howdens current business in the UK are very We are also actively developing substantial and will keep us busy our Lamona brand.
Recent tests for some time to come.
with appliance packs that is, the trio of oven, hob and extractor have As well as the routes to growth I proved very encouraging.
We are have described, there is a further looking to build on the strengthening way we can improve the position perception of Lamona and to expand of the business.
We will use our appliance offering in a continually some of the cash we generate to sophisticating market.
This year, we eliminate the legacy property issues.
will be introducing new sinks, taps, Where opportunities have arisen to lighting, flooring, worktops and eliminate this burden, we have taken waste storage solutions.
them, and will continue to do so.
Our principles for product We remain interested in options introduction will continue to be to develop the business further.
the same: However, we are clear that they must Is it wanted and needed possess similar margin and cash in the home?
characteristics to our core business.
Is it easy for the builder We are at a delicate stage as we Chief executives statement continued The spirit of Howdens is strong, start to emerge from a period of everyone the freedom to work out and resilient, and looking forward.
corporate reconstruction, the costs the best way of achieving it.
People of which continue to be material.
are interdependent, and can solve problems, both complex and simple, So we believe that the right strategic if they are allowed to collaborate course of growth for Howdens is a with each other.
combination of: We work through networks of finely more of the same: i. e. more balanced partnerships between depots and more accounts: individuals.
Each one of our depot continuing to strengthen our managers is in partnership with supply chain: hundreds of small builders: and each of those builders is in partnership with clearing the legacy property many, many people, be they counter issues: and staff, designer, van driver, end-user, developing options that can plumber, electrician and so on.
amounts to thousands of people, who So far, we have been able to balance in turn depend on our factory to make these apparently conflicting demands, enough of the right product, and on and will continue to do so.
our logistics to get it to the right place, to make sure that 400,000 At the start of this discussion, I said kitchens get installed each year.
I would talk about the culture of 14 Howdens.
What makes the business Partnership is a practical skill, and so special?
This is always difficult we have learned to harness it to to convey, but there are a few things drive the growth of Howdens.
So the spirit of Howdens is The first is that individuals matter.
strong, and resilient, and looking Not people as a group, but forward.
Together with all our individuals, with their own unique partners, we are securing what characters and experiences and has been achieved: developing our behaviour.
Individuals are important skills and competitive strength in to this business.
We learned this, tune with a sophisticated market: because in 1995 we started from looking for the possible: working to nothing, and that made us value understand what drives cash and everyone who was prepared to margin: and mapping the future of work with us.
We also learned that, in order for the Matthew Ingle business to flourish, everyone needs Chief Executive to be clear about the objective: everyone needs to be motivated to 2 March 2011 achieve it: and we need to allow
