Chief executives review WE  GROWTH, DELIVERFURTHERMARGIN  OF OUR STRONGBALANCESHEET 2010 WAS ANOTHER VERY ENCOURAGING YEAR FOR IMI, WITH ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OF 6% AND RECORD OPERATING MARGINS OF 16.7%, WELL AHEAD OF THE GROUPS HISTORIC LONG TERM OBJECTIVE OF 15%.
accelerate our investment in The 2010 results reflect the The global trends shaping our future research & development and significant benefits that have and providing higher than average thereby increase the percentage been derived from the gradual but growth opportunities for IMI include: of revenues generated from new fundamental reshaping of the Group, climate change - with opportunities products, launched in the previous which has been underway for many for IMI to provide solutions for three years, to 20% by the end years.
The focus on achieving leading cleaner energy such as liquefied of 2013. positions in niche global markets, with natural gas and nuclear, improved highly bespoke engineered products Overall we expect to invest an energy efficiency and better and a low cost manufacturing additional 45m, spread over the environmental control: base has created a significant and next three years, in new sales and resource scarcity - with sustainable improvement in the engineering resources to help us opportunities for IMI in process underlying quality and profitability achieve these goals.
improvement and automation: of the Group.
Margin improvement urbanisation in the emerging Looking forward, IMI is now well placed economies - with major The Group has been successful in to move on to its next stage of opportunities for IMI around driving margin improvement over many development.
Over the next few building design and mass transit years.
In 2010 we delivered a full year years we will focus on four key areas: infrastructure: and operating margin of 16.7%, ahead of 1.
Strategic convergence an ageing population - with its rising the Groups long term objective of aspirations for a more balanced and 15% for the first time.
Within this, IMIs preferred area of operation is healthier lifestyle and an improved the three Fluid Controls businesses best defined by the convergence of quality and longevity of life.
collectively achieved an overall three key attributes: operating margin of 18.3% and technology leadership in the precise 2.
Growth acceleration the Retail Dispense businesses an control of fluids in critical Having established a firm platform for operating margin of 11.8%.
Given this applications: development, we are now in a position strong progress it is now appropriate market leadership in global niches to increase investment in sales and to raise the long term margin populated by large successful engineering resource to accelerate objective for each of the three Fluid customers who value highly revenue growth.
More specifically we Controls businesses to 20%, whilst customised and differentiated intend to: maintaining the 15% margin objective products: and for Retail Dispense.
allocate a greater proportion of high exposure to the key global current sales and engineering We can expect continued progress in trends which we see shaping the margins over the next few years as a resource in favour of those end future and driving economic growth.
markets where growth is benefiting result of the following initiatives: from the favourable global trends as Today around half of IMIs operations expanding our use of pricing set out above: have a high exposure to all three of specialists across the business to these attributes.
These parts of IMI double our investment in sales and optimise the value of our products are characterised by higher growth, engineering resource in the key and services: higher margins and greater resilience.
markets of China, India and Brazil to improving product mix through the Over time we would expect to significantly increase our revenues introduction of new products at significantly increase this proportion from emerging markets over the higher margins, an increased focus through disciplined choices around next three years: and on high margin aftermarket sales customer selection, new product and selective exit from low margin or development and acquisitions.
commoditised product lines: and 10 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Martin J Lamb Chief Executive investing a further 15m in each of new niche opportunities for the In light of this performance, and our of the next two years to transfer combined business, as does Z&Js confidence in future prospects we further manufacturing to our growing emerging markets exposure.
are pleased to raise the final dividend established facilities in the by 29%.
Looking forward the Group will make lower cost economies of China, greater use of its strong balance We remain optimistic that the Group Mexico, India, Poland and the sheet to fund further value enhancing will continue to make good progress Czech Republic with the aim of acquisitions.
At the same time, the in 2011. increasing the percentage of low Group will continue to focus on cash cost manufacturing to over 55% generation with the aim of maintaining by 2014. cash conversion at over 90%.
Balance sheet utilisation Outlook At the end of the year we were IMI delivered a very strong set of pleased to complete the acquisition results in 2010 with record profits, of Zimmermann & Jansen Z&J, in margins and earnings.
We are now our Severe Service division.
Z&J has a well placed for the next stage in Martin J Lamb strong reputation for its engineering the Groups development and have Chief Executive expertise, has marketleading detailed plans to accelerate growth, 2 March 2011 positions and technologies and a deliver further margin improvement strong aftermarket business.
Its and make greater use of our strong activities in the petrochemical and balance sheet in delivering value iron & steel markets open up a number enhancing acquisitions.
