Strategy Performance Governance Financials Strategy Chief Executives Review The essence of our strategy is a continual focus on growing our topline, supported by effective costoptimisation and cashutilisation.
Alison Cooper Chief Executive 6 In this section 9 Strategic Review 10 Key Assets 16 Leveraging our Assets 22 Key Performance Indicators 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties I am pleased to be reporting a strong set of results in my first the legitimate market in our products.
We were pleased reporting period as Chief Executive, clearly demonstrating torecently sign an EU-wide co-operation agreement to the success of our strategy and our sales growth credentials.
strengthen our joint efforts with EU Member States.
My primary objective is to build on our strong track Through our proactive regulatory engagement we seek to recordand to continue to create significant value for our protect our business and to actively support consumers and retailers.
We support reasonable and practical regulation, but shareholders.
The essence of our strategy is a continual will continue to challenge disproportionate and unnecessary focus on growing our topline, supported by effective cost regulation that undermines the principles of adult choice and optimisation and cash utilisation.
We have been very successful at realising value creating We have particular concerns about the significant adverse business opportunities, as demonstrated by our track impact that the plain packaging of tobacco, which is currently recordof growth and we are continuing to apply this value being proposed in some markets, would have on illicit trade.
creation mindset to our sales growth agenda.
We have Legislation that required all tobacco products to be available made excellent progress during the year in realigning in the same easy-to-copy generic plain packaging would ouroperations with our enhanced sales focus and have leadto a considerable increase in counterfeiting, adversely delivered a strong performance in spite of economic and affecting governments, retailers and consumers, as well as excise driven challenges in some of our markets, notably the legitimate tobacco industry.
inSpain, the USA, Russia and Ukraine.
Our Growth Strategy Our Market Environment Our strategy continues to focus on sales, cost and cash.
Around a third of the worlds adult population choose to The fundamental earnings potential of our business smoke and this number has remained relatively stable remains strong, with price increases and cost efficiencies foranumber of years.
Declining consumption in mature complementing organic volume growth.
marketsis offset by growth in emerging markets as the adultpopulation in those markets grows.
In total, around We use our assets our brands, our total tobacco portfolio, 6trillion cigarettes are consumed annually.
our broad market footprint and our people to build sales and have three particular areas of focus when applying our Our market footprint comprises a balance of mature and strategy: consumer centricity, execution excellence and emerging markets, which ensures we are well positioned future foundations.
tomaximise the sales potential of our brands and unique total tobacco portfolio.
In 2010, 40 per cent of our cigarette You can find out more about how we apply this strategic volumes were sold in mature markets and 60 per cent were approach on pages 16 to 21 of this report.
We have strong positions in both mature and emerging The impact of current economic conditions is being felt by markets and have leveraged our brands and total tobacco both consumers and governments.
Tobacco is a significant portfolio to build sales and create value for our shareholders.
source of revenue for governments and excise duties We have grown shares in a number of markets including havecontinued to increase, particularly in mature markets.
inWestern, Central and Eastern Europe, in Africa and the In2010 we paid over 20 billion to governments in the Middle East and in Asia Pacific.
formofexcise duties and other taxes.
We have continued to invest appropriately to support our Our portfolio spans all price segments and is effectively sustainable sales growth agenda while maintaining our positioned for growth, aligned to consumers requirements ongoing focus on costs.
Our operational performance inboth mature and emerging markets.
As a result of excise hasbeen enhanced by effective management of our cash, driven price increases in mature markets, consumers have maintaining our improved working capital levels and further continued to seek value.
Rising excise duties combined with regulation have FY10 Performance Highlights furtherincreased the illicit trade of tobacco products which The success of our strategy is reinforced by a number of remains a significant and growing problem for consumers, performance highlights in the last year.
Our global strategic governments and the tobacco industry.
We have focused cigarette brands Davidoff, West and Gauloises Blondes onanti-illicit trade activities for a number of years and we made gains, benefiting from brand rejuvenations to ensure arefurther building our approach internationally to protect they remain dynamic and appealing to consumers.
7 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Chief Executives Review continued We drive sales growth across all markets with our global We delivered a strong fine cut tobacco performance, with strategic brands complemented by our regional and local excellent share gains in Central Europe.
We grew our net brand portfolio.
We balance our market share targets with revenues in the UK, Germany and the Rest of the EU and sustainable profit growth in mature markets, while our inRest of the World region.
investment priorities target Eastern Europe, Africa, the Our cash conversion was very strong at 97 per cent and we Middle East and Asia to further build our position in have reduced our debt by 1.5 billion with closing adjusted emerging markets.
We also have an excellent partnership track record, with Brand Equity several new partnership agreements signed in the year, Davidoff and West have been effectively positioned to building our market footprint.
We announced a licence capitalise on consumer trends, growing volumes by 3 agreement with KT&G for the manufacture and sale of percent and 2 per cent respectively.
Davidoff in South Korea, a manufacture and licence In Eastern Europe, we have grown volumes of Davidoff by agreement for West and Davidoff in Mexico and a cigar 20 per cent with particular success in the growing superslims collaboration framework agreement in China.
In addition, and kingsize superslims segments.
We continued to grow wesigned an import and distribution agreement for Davidoffs market share in many markets including in Davidoffin India.
Ukraine, Saudi Arabia and Greece.
People We grew volumes of West in the value cigarette segment Since my appointment as Chief Executive in May, I have anddelivered additional brand innovations with specialised spent time in each of our regions discussing opportunities filters and variants adding an extra dimension for consumers, tofurther develop and implement our sales growth strategy.
resulting in particularly impressive growth in Turkey and Taiwan.
The response from our employees has been extremely positive with our global team fully aligned behind our Gauloises Blondes has continued to consolidate its position enhanced sales focus.
celebrating its centenary in 2010 with a series of limited edition packs and new variants which were well received Logistics byconsumers.
We have further extended the brands reach, In logistics we delivered another positive result.
Our tobacco with a particular focus on Eastern Europe and notable early logistics business performed robustly, with price increases success in the Balkans.
and effective cost management key to maintaining our profitlevels in both our tobacco logistics and our other Complementing our strategic brands is our versatile portfolio logistics businesses.
of regional and local cigarette brands with consumer insights driving our brand and product portfolio choices at a market Our Responsible Approach level.
Our regional value brand JPS was a particular highlight We recognise the controversial nature of tobacco and we have grown volumes by 13 per cent and delivered andbelieve it is essential that tobacco products are significant market share growth in a number of our major manufactured and sold by legitimate, responsible European markets including in the UK and Germany and businesses.
Our commitment to managing our business inAustralia.
Other notable performances include Fine and responsibly has once again been recognised externally Excellence in Africa and Maxim in Eastern Europe.
byBusiness in the Community, with a gold award rating.
More details on our corporate responsibility performance Total Tobacco areincluded on pages 41 to 52.
Our total tobacco portfolio provides consumers with a comprehensive range of tobacco products.
Outlook: Our Priorities and Challenges Driving sustainable sales growth is at the heart of our By anticipating local consumer requirements we grew our shareholder value agenda.
We will continue to build sales total fine cut tobacco volumes by 8.7 per cent on a white across our balanced geographic footprint ensuring our stick equivalent basis.
We made very good progress in versatile brand and product portfolio remains relevant Central Europe, with volumes growing strongly by 54 per andappealing to evolving consumer preferences.
cent across the region and Paramount up by 67 per cent.
Another notable success during the year was the launch of Our focus on cost and efficiency continues as well as Ducados Rubio in Spain, the first expanded make your own effectively utilising the cash we generate.
We have the tobacco product in the market.
Launched in June, it has assets, the opportunities and most importantly the since captured 5.8 per cent of the Spanish fine cut tobacco capabilities and value creating mindset to succeed market.
In addition, we had another excellent performance andIbelieve we are well placed to continue to create with snus in Scandinavia, with volumes up 24 per cent.
sustainable value for our shareholders in the years ahead.
In cigars, despite the challenging environment we grew salesand profits with the continued recovery of our Habanosbusiness.
Market Footprint Our products are sold in over 160 markets and our balanced geographic exposure provides opportunities to maximise the Alison Cooper potential of our brands.
