BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review Group Chief Executives strategic review Andr Lacroix, Group Chief Executive Sales Powering ahead worldwide.
5.9bn Inchcape is a leading, independent, industries, is excellent.
Importantly, international automotive distributor much of the work our Companys 5.4% and retailer with scale operations in 26 spirited, committed and entrepreneurial global markets, 21 of which are in the employees have undertaken in 2010 fast-growing Emerging Market and Asiawill have a significant impact in the Operating profit Pacic economies.
years to come, making it one of the before exceptional items most important periods in our long and In the last two Inchcape annual reports vibranthistory.
we have described how the global financial crisis and recession affected our Longer-term, as we explore in this report, the global industry and economic trends 225.5m industry and how we responded with decisive management action.
Our focus are truly exciting for our Group.
28.7% on five operational priorities see page 8 Now, I would like to outline why I believe was designed not only to manage the Inchcape has been able to take situation we faced, but also to improve profit before tax advantage of the global economic our competitive position by growing our recovery in 2010.
To do so, I will describe before exceptional items revenues ahead of our competitors and and explain our approach to achieving by growing profit and operating cash growth in a global market.
This involves faster than revenues.
our unique business model, our vision I am pleased to report that in 2010 we and strategy and our operational 214.0m ended the year with profits ahead of our discipline on our Top Five Priorities.
At the same time, we have of this would be possible without the seen our market share grow in several of invaluable talent and passion of our our markets.
our market leadership position in 14 markets and we have increased our aftersales market coverage, improving our standing at the forefront of our industryworldwide.
For Inchcape, 2010 will be remembered as a year of robust earnings growth which saw us continue to power ahead as a global industry leader.
Looking to the immediate future, due to the uneven nature of the economic recovery, we remain cautious regarding the short term industry outlook in some of our markets.
Competitive pressure on price will continue, especially in countries where demand is weak and additionally we expect some margin erosion on new cars due to the Yen appreciation and the increase in input costs for manufacturers.
Consequently we expect some pressure on gross margin in 2011.
However given our strong track record and the industry recovery in most of our markets, we expect the Group to deliver a solid performance in 2011 and further improve its leading industry position.
I believe that our medium to long-term outlook, in what I consider to be one of the worlds most exciting and rewarding www.
com 5 V e h i c s l t r e a s P a l e s s G D r e r i s v o i l r i t w r d t a i e h t b Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued The Inchcape business model Proven business model in global premium car markets with strong performance in all cycles.
Growth and defensive Broad value drivers geographic spread Global brand Diversied partners multi-channel Strong brand business partnerships model Decentralised and empowered organisation Global scale with local agility A unique business model Portfolio of leading premium Multiple channels providing brands as core partners a professional and well-funded Our proven business model enabled us route to market for the worlds to deliver six consecutive years of record Next is our unique portfolio of leading, leading automotivebrands growth with strong returns until the start of premium automotive brands that are our the global economic crisis in 2008.
In 2009 core partners across the world, including Our retail route is a well known model: we achieved peak operating cash ow Audi, BMW, Jaguar, Land Rover, Lexus, a manufacturer appoints us to provide amidst the deepest time of the downturn Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, Subaru, Toyota retail representation which we offer and 2010 has seen us realise many and Volkswagen.
through scale facilities on a regional significant benets from an ever-improving basis.
Through these retail centres we Premium brands have been at the operational environment, enabling us sell new and used vehicles, offer car forefront of the recovery in automotive to report robust earnings growth as finance and insurance products and sales.
They are outperforming other a result of solid revenue progression provide aftersales servicing and parts.
segments in the majority of markets and and strong operational leverage with Our competitive differentiation is through they have continued to provide a strong marginimprovement.
the creation of a superior customer driver of revenue growth for Inchcape experience delivered through the There are five main constituents of our during 2010, as well as supporting proprietary processes of our Inchcape business model: a broad geographic profitability through their strong pricing Advantage programme.
These advanced spread with scale operations: a portfolio power.
And our manufacturer partners retailing techniques help us achieve a of leading, premium automotive brand are amongst the main powerhouses of tangible advantage over our competitors partners: multiple channels to market: innovation in our industry, making major and improve the competitive position of diversied revenue streams that include research and development investments our brand partners.
both growth and defensive value drivers: in breakthrough powertrain and and a decentralised and empowered environmental advances.
The distribution route involves a wider organisation, with local management range of critical functions that we carry Inchcape plays a key role in the who are close to their markets and highly out for our brand partners.
This includes automotive value chain for our brand responsive to changing conditions.
many activities that in other markets partners.
Our global infrastructure and would be carried out by the manufacturer the professionalism of our marketing Broad geographic spread themselves.
In effect, as the distributor, we and sales operations ensure that strong in the fastest growing operate as the manufacturers exclusive these initiatives succeed in the local master-franchise partner in a particular global economies marketplace.
territory to carry out all marketing and It is our wide geographic spread that Because our unique business model is sales activities from selecting marketmost precisely defines Inchcape.
Of the multi-layered in its structure, at first glance specic models, setting prices, ordering 26 global markets in which we operate, some observers of Inchcape may not new cars and parts and their subsequent 21 are among the worlds fastest-growing fully appreciate the depth and closeness distribution, to appointing and managing economies.
This is important to our future of our brand partner relationships, many the entire dealer network of which growth during 2010, for example, around of which have been in place for several we typically own 20% ourselves.
We 65% of our trading profit was generated decades.
I would now like to explain how also undertake national marketing in the Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacic the nature of these relationships give us activities, including brand advertising, and we currently expect this proportion to the benets of a multiple-channel route to public relations and customer database grow both as our business expands and market, comprising distribution, retail and management and full back-ofce as untapped potential develops.
a combination of the two that we call functions.
Effectively, where we run vertically integrated retail VIR.
distribution operations, we manage and 6 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 v i e s d u n r R t i e i v F f o i e e n D r n a s n c e e a c i n v r d e i S n s u r a n c e BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION st Customer 1 strategy The customer funnel A clear strategy to deliver organic growth and take advantage of external Customer insight is critical to driving growthopportunities.
revenues ahead of the competition.
Purchase Ownership Vision Customer data To be the worlds most customer centric automotive retail group Trafc Enquiries Leads Bookings Test drives Lead time Capture rate Capture rate Strategy Strategy Core Purpose Strengthen Expand To create the ultimate Customer-focused Consolidation in Identify customer experience for operational excellence high margin high focus areas & recognise in every site our brand partners growth areas progress Superior customer value st deliver every aspect of the customer This Group-wide Customer 1 approach Decentralised and empowered interface in those markets and our has proven to be highly successful over organisation leading consumer research provides our the last five years.
We have made major The final key element of our business brand partners with invaluable insights on progress in raising our customer service model is our decentralised management local market trends.
competitive advantage, delivering strong structure, which enables local returns and strengthening our industry There are also some territories typically management teams to use their in-depth leadingposition.
city-state markets such as Hong Kong personal knowledge of individual markets and Singapore where we operate within a globally aligned group structure.
Inchcape Advantage both as the exclusive market distributor For a global organisation like ours, At the heart of our successful Customer and the exclusive market retailer for our we believe that this is the best way to st brand partners.
Called VIR, this enables 1 strategy is Inchcape Advantage, our operate.
We have the scale that enables unique, systematic Group-wide continuous us to capitalise on important margin investments in world-class Group wide opportunities.
improvement programme and our most information systems, shared best practice powerful source of competitive advantage.
As franchise and retail partner to the and advanced business processes worlds leading automotive brands, our Customer insight is critical to driving together with in-depth local market revenues ahead of our competitors and global footprint gives us scale presence knowledge and the ability to respond swiftly across five continents whilst making our c. 12,000 interviews every month and decisively to fast-changing conditions.
keep us closely in touch with changing optimum use of our capital.
This gives us important advantages in our consumer behaviour.
It is clear that, postlocal markets, and, through them, across downturn, the car market is becoming our entire globalfootprint.
Growth and defensive value increasingly polarised between brands drivers Our organisational model provides both competing purely on price and those We enjoy the benets of diversied the benets of global scale and local offering added value to customers.
revenue streams, which are carefully agility which is proving to be the winning We are strongly positioned in the latter balanced to deliver strong margins formula to compete both in local markets category, providing superior customer during times of economic growth and and worldwide.
value through our proprietary Inchcape decline alike.
Our growth value drivers Advantage processes.
are sales of new and used vehicles, Vision and strategy alongside the finance and insurance Additionally this programme gives us Our unique business model is powered by Group-wide access to industry leading products that are associated with them.
a vision and strategy aimed, ultimately, at Inchcapes defensive value drivers are metrics, covering all aspects of the generating consistently excellent results customer journey in both car purchase aftersales, servicing and parts, which in for our shareholders.
an average year delivers around 50% of and aftersales and enabling us to take Our vision is simply to be the worlds decisions concerning inventory, market our gross profit.
most customer-centric automotive retail activity, promotions and more... and group.
Our strategy for success is based always ahead of the market.
on organic and external growth: to Combined, these elements of the strengthen our business, by delivering Inchcape Advantage programme superior customer value: and to expand, drive us to achieve customer-centric by growing and consolidating our operational excellence throughout our presence in high-growth areas of the retail networks, realising our Groups core world where we can realise high returns.
purpose: to create the ultimate customer experience for our brand partners.
com 7 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued Top Five Priorities Primary focus on organic growth through strong operational discipline on Top Five Priorities.
Differentiated strategy Commercial initiatives Growing Growing to grow revenues ahead market share aftersales of competitors Cash initiatives to grow profit and operating cash faster Improving Controlling Selective capital than revenue margin working capital expenditure Balanced focus on commercial initiatives and cash initiatives in every operation.
Operational discipline on our Top Cash initiatives Five Priorities Cash initiatives to grow profit and Much of our success in 2010 has been operating cash faster than revenue are driven by a focused performance due to our continued focus on organic growth management through a strong management approach, based on daily, weekly and monthly operational and operational discipline on our Top Five Priorities.
Commercial initiatives to financial metrics.
increase our market share and grow our We leverage the pricing power of our aftersales business have been balanced premium brands with margin accretive by cash initiatives to improve our margins, initiatives and tight controls on pricing closely control our working capital and to to ensure that we maximise our revenue be highly selective in prioritising capital growth.
Gross margin is controlled with expenditure projects.
careful mix management on each value driver based on rigorous benchmarking, Commercial initiatives while overheads are tightly managed Commercial initiatives to grow through a focus on constantly improving revenues ahead of our competitors are productivity, returns on marketing underpinned with superior customer investments and costs.
service and the proprietary operating Our focus on working capital remains procedures of our Inchcape Advantage resolute with proven processes in place programme throughout each part of to effectively manage the supply chain the customer journey, from consideration with no more than 1.5 months stock cover to purchase and car ownership.
And our capital expenditure Initiatives to drive customer trafc into on existing sites has been limited to the showroom dovetail into programmes brand and safety requirements with only to make the visit a special one, from the selective investment in new strategic sites initial welcome to a exible test drive in the faster growing emerging markets.
programme and a memorable car handover process.
Balanced approach to growth In aftersales too, bespoke programmes, It is this balanced approach that in 2010 such as vehicle health checks, express has allowed us to deliver a solid revenue service and oil and tyre programmes growth and to grow profit and operating ensure a differentiated customer cash faster than revenue, attaining a far experience, all delivered against a stronger outlook than any of our rivals backdrop of qualitative and quantitative and a business performance ahead customer feedback to provide deep of expectations.
We are committed to insight and strengthen our advantage.
continuing our focus on these Top Five Priorities to enable us to return to peak earnings and beyond.
8 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Five key global trends Inchcape is uniquely positioned to take advantage of exciting growth opportunities.
Technology will create value and drive replacement in advanced markets Uneven global market recovery Car parc growth in both the fast growing and the advanced markets Structural growth led by wealth creation in Asia-Pacific and Emerging Markets Strongest players will lead industry consolidation st five years source: JD Power.
While this differentiated Customer 1 strategy with a Exciting growth opportunities is an obvious driver of our continued strong operational discipline and people ahead growth through the sale of new and used with outstanding ability.
Looking ahead, we have identified five key vehicles, its significance for us is further global trends that we believe will have a Inchcape continues to power ahead, strengthened through the opportunities major influence on our industry in years worldwide.
it brings for the sale of finance and to come.
We are already focused on insurance products and for aftersales these positioning ourselves to leverage servicing through the whole ownership the opportunities and outperform life-cycle as the car parc increases.
The fifth of these trends is that the First, we believe that the global economic strongest, best funded players in recovery will be uneven.
That said, the Andr Lacroix, the industry will continue to lead its forecast for the total car market is exciting Group Chief Executive consolidation in years to come.
Motor as the global industry is geared for 33% manufacturers will continue to strengthen growth over the next five years Source: both their market coverage and quality Global Insight.
Thanks to our geographic of operations to compete effectively.
We spread, we are well positioned to benefit See online are well positioned to gain access to from this unevenrecovery.
com ar10 expansion opportunities, benefiting from Secondly, we believe the structural our long standing and close relationships growth in the industry will be led by with the worlds leading manufacturers, wealth creation in Asia-Pacific and a proven track record of effective brand the Emerging Markets.
With our strong stewardship across five continents and a portfolio of premium brands, Inchcape is strong balance sheet.
uniquely positioned to take advantage of the premiumisation of these markets Powering ahead worldwide as consumers increasingly aspire to Inchcape is extremely well placed to betterlifestyles.
capitalise on these exciting growth The third trend is that in the more opportunities.
Our global footprint and advanced markets, progress in proven business model in the premium technology will create value and car market uniquely positions us to return drive vehicle replacement.
Inchcapes to our peak financial performance premium brand partners are at the and then power beyond.
We have a forefront, with their leading-edge healthy exposure to the fastest growing development of hybrid and electric economies, with 21 of our 26 markets in vehicles and fuel-efficient technology for Asia-Pacific and the Emerging Markets.
both diesel and petrol engines.
We have long-standing partnerships with the worlds leading car manufacturers Fourth, research shows that the global and the vehicles we sell are in the car parc, comprising new and used premium category, which is leading cars, is set to grow by 18% over the next demand in markets worldwide.
