Chief Executives Review Our book businesses had a strong year with a number of deals in new, emerging market libraries ensuring we kept pace with a record breaking 2009 performance.
Peter Rigby, Chief Executive Academic Information AI Our academic division, which provides books and journals to university libraries and the wider academic market, accounts for 25% of Group revenue and 35% of the adjusted operating profi t. The division continues to perform well, demonstrating the resilient nature of its high quality earnings streams.
This division has delivered organic revenue and adjusted operating profi t growth of 4.7% and 4.5% respectively during 2010.
Our book businesses had a strong year with a number of deals in new, emerging market libraries ensuring we kept pace with a record breaking 2009 performance.
Ongoing technical developments in both print-ondemand and marketing activity supports the ever growing portfolio of books with nearly 5.5 million books sold in 2010 of which around 70% of the revenue generated was from the back catalogue.
The on-going strength of our journals business has been supported by an increase in online usage of over 25%, showing the strength of our product range and the success of the marketing teams.
This acceleration in usage emphasises the ever improving quality of our publications and will further increase the resilience of the business and strengthen its position in its niche market.
Digital delivery is increasingly important for both the books and journals and we work hard to remain delivery platform neutral.
100% of our journals are available digitally along with 32,000 of our books 2009: 22,000.
Geographically, emerging markets are an important growth area with India now the fourth largest books market for our academic information and there are promising growth prospects in China.
Emerging markets now represent 13% of the AI revenues compared to 11% last year.
We remain sensitive to the demands of an academic environment with signifi cant budgetary pressure and we have worked closely with our customers to secure 2011 revenue.
The journal renewal process has delivered in line with our expectations.
We believe this refl ects the weighting of our portfolio towards HSS and libraries 12 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 14 21 03 2011 17:33 We have taken the opportunity over the past two years to remove marginal product, consolidate titles and invest in our market leading brands and products, which will be the core of this divisions growth in 2011 and beyond.
We have continued to reduce our reliance on advertising which is only 6% of PCI revenue.
We will move forward with a stronger, higher quality set of assets in this portfolio.
The migration from print to digital and from single subscriber to corporate access continues to boost the performance of this division and will be continued.
The Citeline suite of products for the pharmaceutical market has performed very well with new product launches in 2010 and more planned for 2011.
Informa Healthcares online portal, informahealthcare.
com, was also enhanced in 2010 helping to drive a substantial revenue growth for digital books.
Lloyds need for quality content.
We will endeavour to build List has seen a 21% increase in subscription revenue on those subject areas such as environment and urban with the new launch of its online product.
Many other planning and regional studies where we have signifi cant product successes contributed to the ever improving strength during the course of 2011. portfolio within the IBI division.
Professional and Commercial Information PCI Towards the end of 2010, we took the decision to The PCI division which provides books, journals, fully integrate Datamonitor into IBI.
During the year database products, intelligence centres and other Datamonitor continued to grow its subscriber base similar products to the healthcare, pharmaceutical, and sales and has ended the year in a stronger position fi financial services, maritime, commodities, telecoms than it started.
Previously it had interacted closely with and legal sectors, accounts for 30% of Group revenue the rest of the Group but maintained a more expanded and 35% of the adjusted operating profi t. PCI consists infrastructure than most other acquired businesses.
of Informa Business Information IBI and Informa We believe that now is the right time to combine Financial Information IFI.
all of the divisions market leading products within the Healthcare, Financial and Telecoms sectors.
This As expected, during the year we saw the lag impact portfolio will present our customers with an even more on subscription income especially in the fi financial compelling sales proposition.
We have also taken the services sector, however, during the second half of 2010, opportunity to remove some of the marginal product revenues grew and we expect them to continue to grow in certain sectors and focus on the niche areas of in 2011.
We have taken the opportunity over the past information which can command high margins.
two years to remove marginal product, consolidate titles and invest in our market leading brands and products, which will be the core of this divisions growth in 2011 and beyond.
The PCI division delivers 88% of its products digitally, driving further growth from high value corporate sales and digital upselling.
Subscriptions account for 74% of the overall divisions revenue with a high renewal rate of 87% which is a testament to the strength of the product off ering.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 13 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 15 21 03 2011 17:33 Chief Executives Review continued The larger events portfolio has performed well in 2010 with the revenue from the top 200 events increasing by 16% 5% excluding IPEX.
IFI, which delivers high value subscription products by 16% 5% excluding IPEX.
The number of events to the financial sector, represents 22% of PCI revenues.
generating more than 0.5m has increased from 69 to We have continued to see a lag on subscription income 76 in the last 12 months.
This will be an area of focus in this area but have diversified the portfolio somewhat for the Group as we look to increase the number of through the acquisition of an emerging funds database exhibitions that we run, either through new launches which has strong growth potential.
or acquisition, or by seeking to increase the scale of our market leading conferences.
Across this division we are investing in platforms and distributions systems, restructuring or adding to our Our local language conference and training companies existing sales teams, expanding geographically and we in Germany and the Netherlands recovered well after believe that the prospects remain encouraging for 2011. a challenging 2009.
We removed a significant number of events year-on-year but were able to grow profits Events and Training by 28% between them.
We achieved a strong recovery Our Events and Training business, consisting of trade in Sweden and Denmark, in Australia where we added shows and exhibitions, large and small conferences and an exhibition business late in the year to our market training courses, accounts for 45% of Group revenue leading conference and training company and in the and 30% of adjusted operating profit.
This division has US where our conference business, led by its marketing benefited from improving economic conditions around division, grew its adjusted operating profits by 21%.
the world with organic revenue from core operations increasing by 2.7%.
With the benefit of operational Our corporate training portfolio showed a much gearing, adjusted operating profits have grown by improved performance in the second half of the year 8.1% to 93.5m and the margin has improved by with strong growth in the Far East and Australia and an 150 basis points to 17%.
improvement in its larger US operations.
Revenue in the key final three months of the year, excluding Robbins 2010 witnessed improved economic conditions in Asia, Gioia, grew by 11% which gives us cautious optimism Latin America, Australia, Germany and Scandinavia.
Robbins Gioia, the US Government contractor, US remained tougher but there were definitely signs stabilised over the final months of the year.
of an improved recovery towards the end of the year.
On a sector basis, our financial events recovered well, We have started 2011 well with Arab Health, held telecoms remained strong and we expanded our stable in January, achieving its highest ever revenue and of market-leading healthcare events.
Trade shows and rebooking a record amount onsite for 2012.
We also held exhibitions remained our most resilient products, whilst our market-leading Energy event in Germany and Middle average delegate numbers increased across our entire East Electricity, both of which have grown.
conference portfolio giving us confidence for the future.
Forward bookings across our exhibition business and In May we ran IPEX, our one quadrennial event.
This was the outlook for the conference businesses remains a great success and contributed strongly to this years positive.
We are intending to launch new trade shows results.
Other notable successes include Arab Health, and conferences in 2011, build on our market-leading which celebrated its 35th year in 2010, the World Antipositions in the Middle East and within the Healthcare Aging Congress held in March, the Broadband World sector, as well as expand into key geographies within Forum held in October and the SuperReturn Series the Far East and Latin America.
which was held seven times in different locations during the course of the year.
Peter Rigby The larger events portfolio has performed well in 2010 Chief Executive with the revenue from the top 200 events increasing 14 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
