L L A A F N N I O O N I I T T A A A N R R C I E E A P P L O O IN THIS SECTION CHAIRMAN AND Strategic perspectives 02 Business review 06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Review of operations 09 ANDREW SUKAWATY We aim to deliver superior shareholder value based on a Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer strategy of pursuing multiple paths to growth.
We underpin this by a rigorous focus on customer needs, as well as the ongoing ef ciency of our operations, the preservation of our position as market leader, and on a disciplined assessment of the financial returns.
OUR MULTIPLE PATHS TO GROWTH HELP US ACHIEVE OUR MISSION 1 2 Handheld voice Low data rate Managed services Services Capacity Government leasing & Military UAVs Our mission 1979: GLOBAL L-BAND Aero passenger To serve mission ESTABLISHED FRANCHISE AT C connectivity critical communications needs where terrestrial 2014: GLOBAL KA-BAND networks dont go or SATELLITES AND NETWORK are ineffective.
Aero passenger connectivity Government & Military VSAT services Maritime & Energy In the chart above we show how our strategic roadmap links with STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVES four focus areas across the business, working together to deliver shareholder value.
We are proud to be the leading provider of mobile satellite communications services, serving mission critical communications We have continued to lay the groundwork in the past year for needs where terrestrial networks dont go or are, at times, driving additional growth opportunities in the future to maintain ineffective.
Our strategy has evolved over the years as we have our leadership position over the next decade.
seen the number of data applications used by our customers increase, the size and cost of the terminals dramatically reduce We consider four perspectives when we plan for the future.
First and the spectrum ef ciency and throughput of our satellites and foremost is our focus on customers and their diverse needs greatly increase.
Second, we look internally at how we are positioning ourselves operationally to ef ciently and effectively service those needs.
Third, we look at our ability to embed and 02 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 I T T N E E D K K U R R S A A T M M R Y R R E E P M M O O O S T T I T S S I U U O C C N 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INMARSAT PLC BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and determines the nature and extent of the risks the Group should take to achieve its strategic objectives.
AND DRIVE OUR STRATEGIC SUCCESSES 3 Highly reliable comms for data transmission on the move We are driving growth in our CUSTOMER MARKET established BGAN, FleetBroadband Bundled value voice and SwiftBroadband services with new Competitive reliable handheld service applications, delivered to new industries, Premium services good value in targeted geographic areas.
Innovative services Highest reliability standards We will maintain our L-band network with OPERATIONAL satellites purchased on a rolling basis to Accelerated revenue growth in our core business and new services offer a range of new and enhanced Fixed-cost base through primarily wholesale approach and careful Inmarsat products and services.
capex planning Professionally rewarding, challenging and enjoyable place to work INDUSTRY Our position as the leading mobile satellite services With the launch of our IsatPhone Pro POSITION MSS provider global handheld phone we can now offer unrivalled voice quality and reliability for Being technology leader in MSS years to come.
Providing a broad range of leading innovative services Offering premium services at good value To deliver superior total shareholder returns by increasing Continued investment in the L-band FINANCIAL revenue growth on a largely xed-cost base through Alphasat and the development of the Global Xpress platform are designed Build sustainable cash returns to shareholders to accelerate cash ow growth as Prudent capex planning revenues increase.
sustain the leadership in our offer.
Finally, we do a full and government sectors.
With this investment we are targeting our disciplined assessment of what returns we can deliver to our existing customers and distribution channel with services many shareholders as we tackle the marketplace opportunities.
are already using or demanding for the future as their bandwidth needs grow.
With a focus on these four perspectives, we announced a new investment programme.
This programme has become our In our review of the multiple paths we are pursuing to achieve our next-generation Inmarsat-5 I-5 satellites and services which targeted growth, the Global Xpress programme is expected to we have named Global Xpress.
Global Xpress GX is targeting start commercial operations over two satellites in 2013.
In 2014, a US$1.4bn existing market opportunity.
This US$1.2bn capital we expect to have a global service operating over the three programme will launch new mobile broadband satellite services satellites.
These satellites are being built by the world leader signi cantly faster than our current available services.
We will be in this Ka-band satellite technology, Boeing Satellite Systems the first to offer true global mobile VSAT-type services.
This will International, Inc. Boeing.
We are targeting US$500m of open up broadband opportunities in the maritime, energy and annual revenues, five years after we offer a global service.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 03 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Whilst Global Xpress complements our L-band franchise, it can The Global Xpress network will be delivered in the Ka-band via the also provide an upgrade path to existing customers who may new series of Inmarsat-5 spacecraft being built by Boeing in the U. S. develop higher bandwidth needs, and affords them the opportunity to migrate over time from existing services to the new GX services.
Some customers may also choose to use both services simultaneously in the future through hybrid packages we plan to offer.
With Global Xpress we also intend to pre-sell some of the capacity, as most Fixed Satellite operators do today.
In the first demonstration of this we have signed Boeing as a distributor with a signi cant commitment for capacity on the Inmarsat-5 I-5 constellation representing 10% of the planned income in the first five years of operations.
Of course, we remain well-positioned to continue growing our core L-band franchise as well.
With three generations of satellite constellations in operation, another one currently being built Alphasat, which will operate in the L-band spectrum we continue to invest for the future here as well.
We have also recently launched new services such as our global handheld phone, IsatPhone Pro.
New low data rate services and the next generation safety services are examples of more to come.
We intend to maintain our L-band network, and will purchase new satellites for this network on a rolling procurement basis, which means that they will be replaced over time rather than ALPHASAT FUTURE in a concentrated investment period.
This allows a smoother investment and cashow pro le that bene ts our capital SATELLITE INVESTMENT requirements.
The chart on the previous page re ects the different market Lb a n d Inmarsat-5 opportunities we see for our business.
These all build upon a successful broadband business which has been developed over An important new addition to our Global Xpress will be delivered L-band satellite constellation will over our next-generation I-5 the last five years.
Our Broadband Global Area Network BGAN be the Alphasat satellite, being spacecraft, built in the US by business was first introduced to land mobile users and then built by Astrium, which is currently Boeing, the world leader in expanded into FleetBroadband services for maritime users and due for a late 2012 delivery.
We see more growth ahead for this platform as we bene t from more applications, penetrate new industries and target speci c geographic areas.
An important new addition to our L-band satellite constellation 2025 will be the Alphasat satellite, being built by Astrium, which 2023 is currently due for a late 2012 delivery.
This project involves 2018 us as the commercial partner for the European Space Agency ESA and our investment in this satellite will provide additional 2014 capacity and redundancy, so enhancing our L-band services.
We are already in advanced discussions with manufacturers for a range of new and enhanced Inmarsat products and services to work on the Alphasat platform and our existing L-band satellites.
With this investment we give our customers even further assurance that their existing services will be supported well into the next decade, protecting their investments something most INMARSAT-2 LAUNCHED 1990-92 of our competitors cannot currently match.
INMARSAT-3 LAUNCHED 1996-98 INMARSAT-4 LAUNCHED 2005-08 Two new offerings, which are supported on our L-band satellites ALPHASAT FUTURE LAUNCH 2013 are our global handheld satellite phone, the IsatPhone Pro, and our satellite low data rate SLDR services.
FUTURE PROOF Our latest generation of award-winning Inmarsat-4 satellites, supplemented by our new Alphasat I-XL satellite, will continue to deliver a range of L-band services to customers well into the 2020s.
04 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have seen our land voice revenues decline over the years and Our first global handheld phone, IsatPhone Pro, was launched in the introduction of IsatPhone Pro is our opportunity to reverse 2010 and joins our existing BGAN service in the land market.
this and grow voice revenues over the coming years.
The IsatPhone Pro is a small handset, with a ruggedised design and clear voice quality for the special remote environment market we serve globally.
It has the longest battery life in the industry and the lowest retail price for the handset.
Initial sales have been positive and we expect to take a 10% share in the established market within the next two years.
Although this market segment is already very competitive with offerings from regional and global providers, we believe the voice quality and reliability we can offer for many years to come is unmatchable by our current competitors.
In a recent independent survey, the IsatPhone Pro was rated the best-performing product in the market compared to handsets from two other MSS providers, and is being offered at the lowest price.
The SLDR services referred to above were first highlighted in last years annual report, when we commented about the opportunities we saw through expanding our services in the telemetry market which would drive more traf c onto our network without us having to incur any signi cant investment either capital or operational.
This vision has started to provide a revenue bene t as the number of applications using telemetry units has increased.
Our investment in SkyWave Mobile Communications SkyWave came at a good time in its development and for our expectations of market growth in that sector.
We also have seen development with a BGAN-based telemetry service which will be offered which would result in US$368.8m of payments for Phase I within through all of our Distribution Partners.
18 months and US$115m per annum with a 3% annual escalator for Phase II.
After signi cant planning for this, we are now ready Another important development in the year was in the area to make the required changes over the next few years to protect of satellite terrestrial hybrid networks.
In December 2007 we our customers from the effects of the terrestrial implementation.
signed an agreement to work with another satellite operator, Of course, we will incur costs, particularly in the first few years of LightSquared, to enable the rebanding and ef cient reuse of this development and these are more than adequately covered L-band radio spectrum covering North America.
It was intended by our income from the agreement.
However, assuming this would provide exibility and operational terms to support LightSquared completes its implementation, we do expect this the development and deployment of 4G ancillary terrestrial to represent a steady income stream for the future.
Also, we are component ATC services by LightSquared.
In August 2010 exploring similar hybrid activities through our S-band satellite we received notice from LightSquared triggering Phase I of programme in Europe and other activities in our existing L-band this agreement and in January 2011 we received Phase II notice.
As a business, we continue to explore optionality in our Payments are now to be made to us on a quarterly basis, business that can deliver incremental value to shareholders.
In January 2010, we successfully completed the acquisition of A BGAN-based telemetry service is being developed for the monitoring Segovia, which provides secure internet protocol IP managed of remote assets, such as electricity sub-stations.
solutions and services to government defence users.
Segovia is now part of the financial reporting group of our Stratos segment.
Our decision to acquire this business is to position us more deeply with key customers and offer integrated edge to edge solutions using our network and other technologies.
Segovia met our expectations in its first year in the Group, and our other operating government subsidiary, Stratos Government Services, saw strong growth in the year as well.
We continue to work closely with all our distributors to pro tably grow together in the diverse markets we and they serve.
As part of our ongoing strategic decision review, we look at opportunities to pro tably grow our business and manage the risks we face.
At the time of our IPO we laid out a roadmap with multiple paths to accelerate our growth.
Achieving the growth targets also demonstrated our ability to leverage our xed cost base to accelerate cash ow growth as revenues increase.
With an established and successful track record for strategic development, we are well positioned to achieve more in the coming years.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 05 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 9% COMPOUND DIVIDEND BUSINESS ANNUAL GROWTH INCREASE REVIEW 2010 was another strong year of revenue and pro t growth for 2006-2010 7.
Importantly however, 2010 also marks a signi cant milestone for Inmarsat as a publicly listed company the end of We achieved 9% compound We also increased our dividend annual growth in revenues during by 7.4% CAGR over the same our fifth year as a listed stock.
This is important because in 2005, this period.
five years from 2006. when we listed our shares on the London Stock Exchange, we set a target for ourselves.
That target was to take a company which had historically grown revenue at a 2% to 3% rate and accelerate that growth.
Initially we targeted a 5% to 6% compound annual GROWTH IN GROWTH IN growth rate CAGR and 18 months later increased that target to 6% to 8% CAGR.
EBITDA PRE-TAX PROFIT Five years on, we can now proudly report to you that we exceeded our goals signi cantly.
We not only achieved 9% 13% 28% compound annual growth in revenues during this period, but we also achieved 13% growth in EBITDA and 28% growth in pre-tax At the same time, we achieved And five-year growth, from a 13% growth in EBITDA, 2006-2010 in pre-tax pro t pro t. We also increased our dividend by 7.4% CAGR during this from 2006-2010. of 28%.
This is an impressive achievement for our staff and one for which they should be congratulated.
This tremendous result for our shareholders complemented the continued high satisfaction levels of our staff and a dramatic expansion of next generation In addition, to underline our con dence in our future, and to services for our Distribution Partners and customers.
In other highlight the strength of our balance sheet and cash ows, we words, in achieving this growth, we invested and laid the are recommending a full-year dividend of 22.69 cents US$.
This foundation for further progress.
will bring the total dividend payable for 2010 to 36.69 cents US$ per share, an increase of 10% on the total dividend paid in 2009.
Of course, we need to continue to look ahead.
In mid-2010 we We have also announced that we expect to sustain at least 10% announced a new set of five-year targets for Inmarsat and much dividend growth for the subsequent two financial years 2011 more.
Again, weve set a five-year revenue growth target for our and 2012.
Inmarsat Global MSS revenues of 5% to 7% CAGR through 2014 with 2009 as the base year.
With this growth, on our largely We have continued our focus of ensuring a healthy financial xed-cost base, we would expect a higher rate of pro t growth.
position for the Group and during 2010 we actively pursued several strategically bene cial financial transactions which have helped our balance sheet and provided competitive debt Signi cant work has been taking place to prepare our next-generation arrangements for us.
Further information on these are referred platforms to support the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System to in the CFO section on page 19.
GMDSS as well as aero safety.
Our healthy financial position has been supported again by good results for last year.
Group EBITDA for 2010 increased by 17% over 2009.
Our EBITDA margin has increased to 59% for 2010 compared with 57% for 2009, helped by the inclusion of revenue from our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared which started to be received in August 2010.
Total Group revenues for 2010 increased by 12.9% compared with 2009.
For our two operating segments Inmarsat Global reported a 10% increase in revenues to US$764.1m with Stratos up by 11.3% to US$716.8m.
After eliminating intercompany sales of US$309.3m, total Group revenues were US$1,171.6m.
We maintained tight control of our costs during the year, with total Group net operating costs for 2010 increasing by only 7%, with the increase principally related to Segovia which wasnt part of the Group in 2009.
Our strategy remains focused on providing services to meet mission critical needs where other networks generally dont go on land, at sea and in the air.
Our commitment to safety services at sea and in the air also remains, with signi cant work occurring to take our Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS and aero safety to the next generation platforms, ensuring the availability of these services beyond 2020.
06 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The IsatPhone Pro is a small handset with a ruggedised design and clear voice quality for the special remote environment market we serve globally.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 07 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We continued to support critical humanitarian and emergency 2010 Awards activities during the year.
In the earthquake disaster in Haiti, our terminals were deployed through organisations we support We are delighted to have recently received a number charitably, such as Tlcoms Sans Frontires and the ITUs of high-pro le industry and consumer awards, including: Framework for Cooperation in Emergencies programme, together with numerous aid and other NGO bodies.
In the oods in Pakistan and Australia and in countless other situations, we were there with our distribution partners providing vital support Inmarsat crowned Best Telecoms Company in Britain and monitoring system performance and capacity 24x7.
As in Management Today magazine named Inmarsat as Best previous years, we have had another year of the highly reliable Telecoms Company in its prestigious Britains Most Admired performance that our customers have come to expect from Companies Awards, beating 2009 winner Vodafone.
us with an overall satellite and network availability of 99.99%.
This has been another highly successful year and our work Royal Academy honours Inmarsats engineering innovation has been recognised by a number of independent bodies.
The 41st Royal Academy of Engineering MacRobert Award for A highlight in June 2010 was the recognition of our engineering Innovation was presented for the pioneering development expertise with the award of Britains most prestigious prize for of the I-4 satellites and BGAN family of services.
The 41st Royal Academy of Engineering MacRobert Award was presented to four of our senior managers in the business: Eugene Jilg, Franco Carnevale, Alan Howell and 505 Emergency Calling wins Safety At Sea International award Marcus Vilaa.
The award recognised the pioneering The free FleetBroadband 505 Emergency Calling won the Safety development of the Inmarsat-4 satellites and the Broadband At Sea International Award for helping seafarers in distress Global Area Network BGAN family of services.
In the UK to connect directly to a rescue centre anywhere in the world.
publication Management Today, Inmarsat was cited as Best Telecoms Company in its prestigious Britains Most Admired Companies Awards.
Other notable awards included being voted BGAN recognised for outstanding achievement for the second consecutive year by Samena as the Best Satellite BGAN won the CommsMEA 2010 Most Innovative Non-Voice Service Provider of the Year in recognition of our leadership and Service award, recognising Inmarsats outstanding achievement excellence in the telecoms sectors of South Asia, the Middle East in the telecom sector in the Middle East and Africa.
We have continued our work with industry and government Best satellite service provider for second year on the future growth of the UK space industry.
The Right Inmarsat was awarded Best Satellite Service Provider by Honourable David Willetts, MP, Minister of State for Science Samena for its leadership and excellence in the telecoms and Universities, visited our of ces in November 2010 to present sectors of South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.
a new government report highlighting the growing strength of the UK space sector entitled Size and Health of the UK Space Industry.
The report shows that the British space industry has FleetBroadband 150 lifts electronics innovation award grown by nearly 8% through the recession and is now worth over Sail Magazine, which reports cruising and sailing news, picked 7.5bn to the economy and that against the backdrop of dif cult FleetBroadband 150 as the most innovative new electronics economic conditions, the space industry has maintained its product in its annual awards.
momentum, as it recorded an average growth signi cantly ahead of the national GDP growth of 0.3%.
Helene Bazzi, one of our senior managers for the Middle East and Lord Browne of Madingley presents the Royal Academy of Engineerings Africa, receives the CommsMEA award for Most Innovative prestigious MacRobert Award for Innovation to the Inmarsat team Non-Voice Service.
behind the development of the I-4 satellites and the BGAN family of 3G broadband services.
08 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC DELIVERY Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, operational, industry position and financial strength continue to drive the business forward.
CUSTOMER MARKET OPERATIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS already been welcomed by many partners and their customers, INMARSAT GLOBAL who have expressed interest to use this higher capacity We own and operate three satellite constellations comprising capability when it is available.
We also encounter competition from other MSS satellite operators.
We look to combat their 11 satellites, which have more than 160 years of in-orbit life.
Operating at geosynchronous orbit approximately 36,000km activities through the reliability of our services, supported by our Inmarsat-4 satellites which are expected to be operational well 22,500 miles above the Earth, our satellites are positioned in nine orbital locations, so offering seamless coverage of our into the 2020s.
We also have the Alphasat satellite being built which will provide network resilience and additional capacity services around the world.
Celebrating the 20th year of service for one of the Inmarsat-2 satellites during 2010 was a great over Europe and the Middle East.
We will be planning for our Inmarsat-6 satellites in due course.
The longevity and reliability achievement, as its operational life was designed to be only ten years.
of the services we provide to customers is an important factor in their decision-making to choose Inmarsat.
As a wholesaler of satellite airtime, Inmarsat Global sells its Over the last year or so in particular, we have seen an services through distributors who engage directly with the customer or through their own channel of service providers.
increased migration from our older services to our broadband services.
We have seen, as expected, traf c initially falling The acquisition of Stratos in 2009 provides us with a direct distribution channel although we remain committed to a whilst customers understand and test the more signi cant capabilities of our broadband services.
We believe that once primarily indirect distribution model, which is supported by a fair channel management policy.
awareness and usage becomes more familiar and they become more reliant on these newer services, we will see an increase We have continued to invest in our business to support our in traf c volumes.
distributors and service providers through a variety of ways.
For our distributors we have increased the funding we make We regularly review how we price our services, seeking to understand what the customer needs, and have introduced to our Connect Programme which co-invests alongside them and supports their marketing activities.
The Connect Accreditation new pricing packages to drive usage of our broadband services across all our sectors of land mobile, maritime and aeronautical.
Programme we established last year is well embedded in how we work with our service providers.
We now have Where there are opportunities to do so, we look for additional 57 bronze, 22 silver and 25 gold accredited service providers and their feedback is that their deeper relationship with revenue generating activities.
Examples of these are in our satellite operations division, where the skills we have in Inmarsat has provided customer bene ts such as improved training and greater access to Inmarsat staff to support their operating our own satellites have been successfully translated into providing similar services for the control and launch of business activities.
We started operating the first of these for UK-based Avanti Communications, with another agreement We face increasing competition from other satellite providers and we have been working hard with our partners to ensure in place to also operate their second satellite.
In 2010, we also provided launch services for both Astrium and the Indian Space they remain focused on distributing Inmarsat services.
VSAT operators continue to target the higher data rate end of our Organisation for a number of spacecraft.
Our decision to launch our own Ka-band satellites has ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 09 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED MARITIME MSS REVENUE 2010 MARITIME REVENUE 2010 In 2010, revenues from services FB500, FB250 the maritime sector were and FB150, we added more US$360.6m, a marginal than 10,000 FleetBroadband increase over 2009.
This is more than services grew by 4% with double the number added voice revenues reducing as in 2009 and is the fastest expected.
There is migration growing maritime service away from our older maritime in Inmarsats history.
services, especially Inmarsat-B FleetBroadband 150 was also which is due for closure at the recognised in early 2010 in Maritime 50% Other 50% Voice 27% Data 73% end of 2014, to our Sail Magazines annual awards FleetBroadband services as the most innovative new which have cheaper tariffs electronics product.
This accounts for In September 2010 it was some of the reduction in announced that AP Mollerrevenues, particularly for voice Maersk, the worlds largest revenues.
Ship owners and shipping company, had vessel captains scrutinise con rmed an order to more opportunities for cost control than double the number of and we have seen a trend vessels it operates with of moving to using voice over FleetBroadband connectivity.
internet protocol VOIP This retro t order of an services and email rather than additional 200 vessels to the making traditional voice calls.
existing 170 already equipped, During 2011, we will launch represented commercial FleetPhone for the maritime shippings largest ever market, as part of the commitment to Inmarsat IsatPhone family of products, maritime services.
The roll-out and expect to capture some of the service is going well of this voice market again.
and almost all vessels are now equipped.
During the year Our FleetBroadband services there was strong endorsement are now accepted and of FleetBroadband through More than 10,000 FleetBroadband terminals were added in 2010, making it the fastest growing maritime service in the endorsed in the maritime industry awards and its use in Companys history.
The MSUA, which challenging maritime events is a non-pro t organisation such as the Velux 5 Oceans promoting the interests of round-the-world solo yacht mobile satellite users race.
We are also delighted worldwide, gave an Innovation to have been selected again Award for our FleetBroadband by the organisers of the Volvo service, recognising the Ocean Race to provide the bene ts of this service to communications throughout the maritime market.
the round-the-world challenge FleetBroadband 150 has made for the 2011-12 event.
For the a strong start, having only first time we are acting as Race been launched in mid-2009, Partner.
All raceboats will have and is successfully targeting the use of FB500, FB150 and the leisure and shing markets Inmarsat C. Our handheld which are new market satellite phone IsatPhone segments for us.
In 2010, Pro will be included as part across the range of three of the safety kit.
10 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC DELIVERY Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, operational, industry position and financial strength continue to drive the business forward.
CUSTOMER MARKET OPERATIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL During 2011 we will We added over 10,000 Our FleetBroadband Maritime data revenues launch a new FleetPhone FleetBroadband terminals services are endorsed continued to grow.
Compact FleetBroadband 150 now makes possible the use of deep-sea FleetBroadband featured in Discovery Channels TV documentary series, technology on smaller vessels such as shing trawlers.
Deadliest Catch, starring Sig Hanson, skipper of the Northwestern.
Since the launch of GMDSS remains important FleetBroadband, we have for us.
We are committed explored how to enhance the to extending GMDSS on service offering to customers.
FleetBroadband in the future We recently announced our so that we can continue to Easy-to-install FleetBroadband 150 terminals are ideal for coastal intention to launch a dynamic provide mariners with the merchant and small leisure vessels.
telemetry service on all reliability and security they FleetBroadband services need in a distress situation.
to enable cost-effective Our 505 emergency calling transmission of constant service, which has already low-data communications.
been used over 100 times It will support a range of since its launch in autumn applications, such as engine 2009, introduced a new management systems on innovation in safety deep-sea tankers sending communications.
The short Inmarsat has signed as real-time data to shore-based code dialling facility provides Race Partner to the specialists and also provide direct access to Maritime Volvo Ocean Race 2011-12. vessel monitoring systems Rescue Co-ordination Centres for sheries protection.
Receiving a prestigious International Our heritage as the only Safety at Sea Award provider of satellite recognising the 505 service communications services for was a great accolade.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 11 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED LAND SERVICES MSS REVENUE 2010 LAND REVENUE 2010 for our BGAN service in the 176kbps streaming rate which Middle East and Africa from is suitable for talking head both CommsMEA 2010 shots and low movement for the Most Innovative scenes.
This lower streaming Non-Voice Service, and rate is ideal for broadcasters the Digital Studio Industry who have greater budget Leadership Award in early constraints as it still delivers 2011 for Satellite Services good quality video to their Provider of the Year viewers at a lower price.
voted on by professionals Combined with the Land 21% Other 79% Voice 5% Data 95% and organisations in the introduction of the 176kbps broadcast industry, recognise service, we also developed the continuing interest three new propositions for in our BGAN service.
disasters and military activities our distribution partners and Revenues from our land and these can cause spiking solution vendors which can be mobile sector were We have seen our partners of use of our services and so combined with a customers US$153.7m, an increase of some volatility in traf c usage.
use BGAN in more creative existing infrastructure to 4.9% compared with 2009. and innovative ways enhance its value or if the Data service revenues grew Our BGAN service celebrated including support for elections infrastructure does not exist, just over 6% to US$146.4m in Brazil and the Philippines, its 5th birthday during 2010. to offer options for last-mile with voice services continuing Since launch it has seen good enabling votes to be cast, connectivity to deliver content to trend down as expected collected, counted and subscriber growth, increasing into the studio.
as our Mini M service comes 46% in 2010.
With the rapid announced in record time.
We were able to play a part in take-up of our BGAN service, Forging a close relationship we have seen a corresponding the excitement of the rescue with our partners and Our land mobile business is of the Chilean Miners with decline in our older data customers is vital to help diverse, with revenues coming service, GAN, and so have news crews using BGAN to educate and share best from many different broadcast events as they announced the closure of this practice and experience about segments.
Government, service to be by the end of happened.
BGAN was used our services.
In August 2010, media, oil and gas exploration to help map the oil slick in the 2014.
We have already started we were involved in the and aid agencies are all key to see migration away from Gulf of Mexico following the promotion and education of sectors for us.
Our user explosion on the rig in April GAN and expect this now to the IsatPhone Pro and BGAN groups are susceptible to accelerate.
The data sent back services during the Africa events such as natural via BGAN allowed incident Endeavor 2010 summit which command staff to view was attended by 30 African updates as they happened nations.
The aim was to and liaise more easily and promote interoperability quickly with the relevant among African nations.
ability to give training on equipment at the Summit We have been innovative in will help facilitate their future working with partners and communication needs.
media customers to provide an additional suite of BGAN We also created a video services they can use, offering showing that setting up a price points to suit all types of BGAN terminal and situation and size of business establishing a broadband operations.
Our premium connection takes only three BGAN X-Stream service is minutes this was a helpful available worldwide offering marketing tool for partners a guaranteed minimum when explaining how satellite symmetrical video streaming technology can be easily We continued to broaden the appeal of BGAN to media rate of up to 450kbps.
We used in day-to-day business users by introducing a new 176kbps low-cost, entry-level streaming service.
also introduced a new activities in remote areas.
12 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC DELIVERY Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, operational, industry position and financial strength continue to drive the business forward.
CUSTOMER MARKET OPERATIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL IsatPhone Pro was launched at We have been innovative in BGAN X-Stream is the only Our land revenue gures the end of June 2010 at a price working with partners and global service guaranteeing grew 5% during the year, with point and with performance media customers to provide a minimum symmetrical data revenues increasing 6%.
leadership which we felt were an additional suite of BGAN video streaming rate of powerful messages.
IsatPhone Pro is being targeted at users in the oil and gas and utilities The ability to communicate via IsatPhone Pro with employees in the eld, sectors, where remote stations take operatives beyond the reach of no matter how remote they are, gives operations centres the ability to terrestrial networks.
react to events and issues in real-time.
IsatPhone Pro was launched The use of low data rate at the end of June 2010 at satellite communications for a price point and with SCADA supervisory control performance leadership and data acquisition and High-end terminals are capable which we felt were powerful telemetry activities has of operating with the premium messages.
An independent increased and we believe that BGAN X-Stream service to offer study of our phone, this continues to be a good video streaming of up to 450kbps.
comparing it to leading market sector for us.
A recent handheld satellite phones successful implementation from Iridium and Thuraya, of a SCADA network based validated the claims for our on BGAN was deployed for phone.
The study reported a major oil eld services that the phone worked company to monitor and everywhere and is the most control hundreds of A range of docking stations rugged, has excellent voice unmanned sites.
The SCADA is now available for use with quality and a reliable network network monitors critical the IsatPhone Pro.
connection, plus has the technologies such as electrical longest battery life of the submersible pumps and three satphones tested.
As temperature gauges with the anticipated, the revenue customer being able to contribution from IsatPhone monitor all the controls from Pro was not material in 2010. a central operations centre.
Working closely with our We are developing this appointed distribution market sector through our partners and their channels, relationship with SkyWave and we are focused on gaining our other distributors.
New market share and growing services are being developed our subscriber base and to run over the Inmarsat-4 revenue contribution over satellites which we expect to the coming years.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 13 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED AERONAUTICAL MSS REVENUE 2010 AERONAUTICAL REVENUE 2010 Our SwiftBroadband service enhancements, we have has seen strong revenue developed a new service growth during 2010 and called SB200 which will its widespread industry provide standard IP data, acceptance has been re ected circuit-switched voice in a corresponding growth in telephony and streaming active channels of 140% IP data up to 16kbps.
SwiftBroadband SB200 service is a lighter, enables cockpit, cabin and smaller system and antenna operational applications which will reduce the purchase Aeronautical 14% Other 86% Voice 4% Data 96% through one installation using and installation costs.
With a single antenna in the aircraft.
this development, smaller We have continued to develop aircraft will be able to access During 2010, revenues the links between the and evolve the service to SwiftBroadband technology.
from the aeronautical sector ight deck and air traf c meet the requirements of Were starting to see smaller were US$101.0m, increasing control and showed speci c markets and users.
aircraft already bene ting by 33% from 2009. excellent growth for this We have introduced new from lighter SwiftBroadband mature service of 15%.
streaming classes together technology, such as Australias Our Classic Aero services, Our Swift64 service, which with a dynamic Quality of Victoria State Aircraft Unit which are used by airlines, is a high-speed data service, Service which allows onboard which uses the technology in business jets and military experienced a healthy applications to use the its new planes to tackle re aircraft for operations and increase in the number bandwidth more ef ciently.
ghting using real-time safety-critical services, provide of channels being used.
In addition to these communications.
LEASING MSS REVENUE 2010 During 2010 revenues from offset by non-renewals and leasing were US$111.7m, reduction of some aeronautical increasing by 8% compared and maritime leases.
As noted in last continued to experience some years report, as the volume customers wanting to secure of our leasing business longer-term arrangements increases so does the need with us so that they have the to secure renewals as knowledge of guaranteed contracts mature.
We have access and where this been successful in doing this happens we see the migration Leasing 15% Other 85% although dependent on the of traf c from one sector, business needs of the such as maritime, to leasing.
customer, so we do not Our BGAN service offering assume that all contracts is being enhanced in order will be renewed or extended.
to address the customer need In 2010 we bene ted from for assured or guaranteed an increase of additional access on our latest generation government contracts and satellites and this new service had a net revenue bene t is expected to be available from aeronautical leases, with for trials during 2011. some contract extensions 14 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC DELIVERY Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, operational, industry position and financial strength continue to drive the business forward.
CUSTOMER MARKET OPERATIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL The SB200 service is a lighter, Our Swift64 service, which is We were delighted to Our aeronautical revenue gures smaller system and antenna a high-speed data service, be the industrial lead in a grew 33% during the year.
which will reduce the purchase experienced a healthy increase consortium working with and installation costs.
in the number of channels the US Defense Advanced being used.
Research Agency and the European Space Agency on the SB-Sat programme.
Use of SwiftBroadband the US Defense Advanced technology helped Oman Air Research Agency and the win Technology Implementation European Space Agency of the Year at the Annual on a project for a data-relay Aviation Business Awards satellite system using 2010.
The award recognised modi ed SwiftBroadband the pioneering introduction terminals called the SB-Sat of inight mobile phone programme.
The modi ed and Wi-Fi connectivity using terminals will be used on Low SwiftBroadband.
More airlines Earth Orbit LEO satellites are starting to offer in ight to deliver telemetry and mobile communications operational commands as well using SwiftBroadband and as relaying mission data via new adoptees to announce our Inmarsat-4 satellites and commitments have been Inmarsat ground network.
Emirates, the Brazilian airline Using modi ed Inmarsat TAM Airlines, Air Asia, technology, the LEO satellites Qatar Airways and bene t by having always-on Singapore Airlines.
data communications without them having to pass over a The new SwiftBroadband 200 service offers smaller aircraft a combination of Standard IP, circuit switched We were also delighted to ground station to maintain telephone and Streaming IP data at up to 16kbps.
be the industrial lead in a connectivity.
consortium working with GOVERNMENT Our government customers the report to the work we use Inmarsat services across all have done with the African our sectors and we continue nations providing education to support both military on the bene ts of our BGAN and civilian operations on a and IsatPhone Pro satellite worldwide basis.
seen our revenues uctuate as We work closely with first government activities change responders in civilian around the world and have departments to provide seen reduced traf c levels in first-hand experience of using 2010 from such users in the BGAN and how its capabilities Middle East, re ecting this can bene t them in times of volatility.
It is therefore dif cult crises.
We have also embarked to predict usage patterns for on a programme to develop these areas.
As governments Software fide ned Radio SDR consider their spending plans for use on our BGAN system.
for building their own satellite This technology will allow systems and balance this need instant deployment of BGAN The international response by governments and NGOs to against overall public spending, to new and existing tactical the Haiti earthquake was co-ordinated using BGAN voice and broadband connectivity.
we can provide them with communications platforms.
We commercial capacity, so are actively engaged with major ensuring they meet the defence contractors to complete requirements for their certi cation so that troops communications needs.
We in theatre will be able to use have referred earlier in this new system in the future.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 15 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED This first category is the services in the maritime sector The increase in 2010 revenue STRATOS MSS business, which is in advance of our Global is primarily due to the inclusion sub-divided into revenue Xpress offering.
This is a of Segovia revenues from On 12 January 2010, we for Inmarsat Global airtime hybrid L-band and Ku-band acquisition on 12 January 2010 acquired the business assets of services and then into Other service that provides both the and increased microwave Segovia.
Segovia is a leading MSS revenues.
The second global service of our maritime revenues.
Partially offsetting provider of secure Internet category is the broadband services with the higher the increase was a decrease Protocol managed solutions business which now includes bandwidth of VSAT.
in VSAT revenue as a result of and services principally to the Segovia.
The majority of the expiry of certain contracts, United States Army and other MSS revenues are Inmarsat In 2010, the growth in the the sale of certain customer U. S. military services and Global airtime sales, which are Inmarsat Global airtime contracts in Germany government agencies.
We approximately 78% of total MSS services came primarily and a decrease in revenue acquired Segovia to strengthen revenue, representing around from increases in the use from equipment sales.
our relationships with these 60% of total segment revenue.
of the aeronautical Swift 64 key government customers service, particularly strong The Broadband division, across land, maritime and MSS services FleetBroadband activity and excluding Segovia, is aeronautical environments as During 2010 MSS services with good growth also in experiencing lower demand and well as bring enhanced services represented US$557.4m leasing.
This growth was an increasingly competitive to the government sector of revenues, an increase partially offset by a decrease trading environment.
We are pleased that of 1% compared with 2009. in the land mobile sector.
management has already the management team in place taken a range of actions, and is before the acquisition continues Stratos has distribution Other MSS services for planning further initiatives to to operate the Segovia agreements with Inmarsat Stratos primarily consist improve results.
The WiMAX business, reporting to Stratos Global covering the provision of mobile terminals and frequency spectrum licences at the executive level.
We have of services provided through equipment sales, mobile we acquired for certain areas been delighted with how this its LESs, the provision of telecommunications services of the Gulf of Mexico in late business, and particularly its services offered over the sourced on a wholesale basis 2009 have enabled Stratos to management, have settled Inmarsat-4 satellites and the from other MSS providers, LES promote its capability to offer into the Inmarsat Group and provision of lease services.
services provided to certain radio access service in the worked across the businesses The price and volume of the distributors and other ancillary Gulf of Mexico at broadband to achieve success.
various services sold by services.
Other MSS services, speeds, competitively priced Stratos has been in uenced by in general, have lower gross against VSAT alternatives and Stratos, as a major distributor, several factors, including price margins than Inmarsat Global with low latency which provides services directly to competition both from other services.
The decrease in provides an enhanced the customer, or through a Inmarsat distribution partners the revenues of Other MSS experience compared to VSAT.
and competing MSS and VSAT revenues was due primarily We believe the investment It provides Inmarsat Global services, as well as the to decreased LES services in the licences will provide non-broadband services, such migration to new lower-margin provided to other Inmarsat Stratos with opportunities as GAN, Inmarsat C and Fleet, broadband services.
In addition, distributors, partially offset to further develop its services through its terrestrial network, the promotion of some of their by increased sales of mobile in this geographic area.
including land earth stations former service providers to terminals and equipment.
LESs located in Australia, becoming new Inmarsat Segovias expertise in designing, Canada, the Netherlands distribution partners as well as Broadband services deploying and operating and New Zealand.
It also changes in the mix of services Broadband revenues increased mixed satellite and terrestrial offers xed-site remote they sell or lease have all by 75% to US$159.4m in 2010. networks in the militarys telecommunications services adversely impacted Stratoss challenging deployment and over xed satellite systems revenues and margins.
Stratoss The Stratos Broadband training environments, coupled and through its owned and achievement in retaining business, in addition to with its secure, dedicated IP operated microwave facilities.
its market share of Inmarsat the Segovia business noted network infrastructure, have In addition, Stratos provides Global services and the above, provides VSAT services, placed it at the centre of the customised turnkey remote pro tability of its MSS business primarily to the oil and gas U. S. Department of Defenses telecommunications solutions, cannot be underestimated.
sector, microwave services DoD transformation and value added services and Furthermore Stratos has been to oil platforms in the Gulf modernisation initiatives.
The equipment and engineering a major contributor to the of Mexico, equipment supply trend within the DoD towards services.
early sales of our IsatPhone and engineering services.
end-to-end solution acquisition Pro service and has introduced The Stratos VSAT network versus piecemeal component The Stratos segment includes a new service, FleetBroadband enables integrated data and acquisition is expected to Segovia and we report Plus, to meet the growing voice telecommunications drive demand for Segovias revenues in two categories.
need for higher bandwidth between remote xed sites managed solutions and and land-based of ces.
services in the coming years.
16 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC DELIVERY Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, operational, industry position and financial strength continue to drive the business forward.
CUSTOMER MARKET OPERATIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL We believe the launch of Our existing broadband Our strategy, staff and We expect signi cant our Global Xpress programme services continue to partnerships will continue financial bene ts from will offer even greater customer attract new users which to drive the business forward.
During 2010 we brought to market a new business stream our INMARSAT handheld satellite phone IsatPhone Pro.
We are working to ensure we target opportunities to develop this business opportunity.
OUTLOOK We also made a signi cant decision to invest in building three Ka-band satellites and launching our Global Xpress programme to deliver further revenue opportunities.
Although we will have some incremental operating costs for this programme, we dont expect to see any trend changes in our underlying costs, cash ow and pro tability.
Although we expect land mobile and aeronautical revenues to have some volatility, we believe our BGAN and SwiftBroadband services will continue to attract new users and traf c which will drive growth.
Balanced with these developments, we expect the ongoing strong growth of FleetBroadband to continue to constrain revenue growth given the lower price of data services as usage levels build.
We expect to see growth in Inmarsat Global MSS revenues during 2011 although believe it will be weighted to the second half of the year.
The Group will also have signi cant financial bene ts from the payments received from LightSquared under the Cooperation Agreement.
The professionalism of our employees across the Inmarsat group is a signi cant contributor to our success as a business.
There is a relentless desire to improve what we do whether through the innovation of our services, how they are delivered and the opportunities to evolve the business further.
We believe our strategy and direction, supported by our worldwide staff and good collaboration with all our partners, will continue to drive the business forward so creating further shareholder value.
ANDREW SUKAWATY Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 17
