Chief Executive Officers Review Delivering sustainable growth Our strategy Our mission is to add value to our customers processes, products and brands through providing quality and safety services.
We concentrate on industry sectors in which we have the critical size to provide our customers with global world-class services which are based on a deep understanding of their current and evolving future needs and challenges.
Our organisation Our divisions are organised to focus on specific industry sectors and continuously strive to improve their capabilities and procedures in delivering customer centric services.
In addition, our Intertek as One programme is strengthening the operational and sales synergies between all Intertek business units on a country by country basis.
We continued this programme throughout 2010 and also increased our cross-selling.
We also gave our Executive Vice Presidents new regional responsibilities for Intertek business and operational development.
This will focus our efforts and success in terms of transnational networking, sales and operational improvements across all countries in that region.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer Our customers industries do not stand still: therefore we continually adapt and develop our organisational structure to best meet their evolving needs.
Thus from 1 January 2011, we reorganised our operational structure to improve the alignment of our business lines Valued Quality.
with those of our customers and renamed certain divisions to better describe their core activities.
The key changes are: Oil, Chemical & Agri OCA is renamed Commodities and In a world of increasing incorporates Minerals: Analytical Services AS is renamed Chemicals & Pharma and quality, safety and incorporates Health & Environmental formerly in IS : Industrial Services IS is renamed Industry & Assurance and sustainability expectations, incorporates Food formerly in Consumer Goods, Agri formerly in OCA and Upstream formerly in AS.
we see higher product Our Half Year Results for 2011 will be reported in the new structure variety, changing sourcing and all prior period comparative figures will be restated to show a like-for-like comparison.
patterns and greater supply Our highly motivated people are chosen for their understanding of local culture as well as their industry expertise.
that our people are our core assets and invest continuously in them.
Our excellent staff, industry leading response times and high value solutions differentiate us in the marketplace.
In response to these Global reach challenges, our brand As supply chains and sales patterns continue to change we have established a network of laboratories and offices located proposition represents where our customers need them.
By providing a central Intertek relationship for all our clients testing, inspection and certification the value we add to our needs globally, we help remove the need to engage multiple vendors in different markets.
Our close relationship with our customers businesses customers and our reputation for quality enables us to develop partnerships with many globally renowned companies where we through the quality we take over and operate our customers in-house testing facilities or quality processes along their supply chain.
Companies can outsource deliver and our speed their laboratory activities to Intertek and be confident that the service they receive will be both high quality and more cost effective.
08 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com Customer-first strategy helping unite previously dispersed facilities to a building designed Our strategy is to be the premier high value service provider in our to help reduce energy, water usage, carbon emissions and waste industry sectors and we will continue to build a full service portfolio but also to provide clients with one convenient location offering to offer our customers one-stop shopping solutions and give us unified services.
the opportunity to leverage excellent customer relationships across Looking forward a broad portfolio.
Our reputation as an international support partner In addition to our global presence in over 100 countries, Intertek with integrity and consistent standards of service gives clients peace has an established presence in many of the worlds fast growing, of mind that Intertek can test to the quality, safety or environmental emerging markets.
We test, inspect and certify the flow of goods levels demanded by the markets they operate in.
and commodities from the markets into global trade.
As these Besides focusing on delivering strong organic growth rates we emerging markets evolve into more sophisticated consumer markets, will continue our well defined acquisition strategy to strengthen the opportunity for our business there is also evolving and growing.
our position in evolving market segments and the important We will provide more services to emerging local brands in the regional markets of the future.
We will do this with small to domestic market as rising middle class populations demand medium sized bolt-on acquisitions but we are also well prepared higher quality, safety and environmental standards from their to be an active consolidator in the industry.
Market drivers As our customers are increasingly looking for a strong and reliable The drivers of growth in our business remained robust in 2010. partner to help them meet their quality, safety, environmental and Global trade volumes improved in 2010 over 2009, meaning that regulatory challenges, Intertek will continue to expand its services the 30% of our business which relies on this also performed better.
and outsourcing options, helping clients to better manage The constant creation of new products and technologies drives the impact of ongoing changing legislations on their products, demand for our services.
Increasing concern by consumers and operations and supply chains.
governments about the quality, safety and environmental impact Through these value-adding services we will strengthen our of products also drives demand for our work.
We continue to client relationships as we become more integral in their business develop complementary new services that will support our clients and on hand for future support services, actively working together present and future needs and increase our market share in certain to help prevent health, safety, environmental damage and regions and geographies to drive growth in the business.
Intertek enables companies to concentrate on their core business and reduce their fixed costs by outsourcing more of their quality and safety needs to us.
The majority of the quality and safety services performed in the world today are still performed by Intertek The marks of quality companies in-house.
Our ability to provide more outsourced laboratory services to our clients also feeds our growth.
We continue For more than 100 years, Intertek has to acquire businesses that complement and enhance our service guided clients through the challenging portfolio and these supplement our organic growth.
Offering the broadest seven excellent companies in 2010 which brought us new skills, range of certification and accreditation sales and business development opportunities in growing markets.
marks accepted in markets around the world, Environmental focus Intertek can help clients to succeed in new Our commitment to sustainability is reflected not only in our operations but also through investing in services that enable and existing markets, meet evolving regulatory our customers to become more sustainable.
By helping our requirements and win new customers.
clients develop more green and sustainable products through socially responsible supply chains we make the greatest impact on sustainability.
In addition, as green and renewable technology development continues to expand, higher volumes of testing and new bespoke laboratory technologies are needed to evaluate and support ongoing innovation and products in this area.
Over the last 18 months, Intertek has opened several new, energy efficient laboratories and innovated new testing methodologies and certification systems for clients in industries from alternative fuels and energy storage to bio-textiles and medical products.
In November 2010, we strengthened our expertise in renewable energy services with the acquisition of Metoc, a global provider of engineering and environmental consultancy services.
We also recognise our responsibility for improving our own operational sustainability.
In May 2010 we moved a number of our Mexico operations to a new green centralised facility, Intertek Annual Report 2010 09 Chief Executive Officers Review Intertek in action Our global network USA New electric vehicle recharge technologies We certified innovative new charging devices for General Motors Chevy Volt electric vehicle.
Our ETL Mark shows its compliance to North American product safety standards.
Revenue distribution Americas 33% Asia Pacific 38% EMEA 29% Locations Case study Mexico Brazil New Green HQ Supporting Oil & Gas Our new 91k sq ft facility in operations Mexico City, has state-of-theWe help oil and gas operations art environmental features in Brazil, through providing that will support trade growth inspection, quality control, in the Mexican consumer regulation compliance goods, energy, food and programmes and agriculture industries infrastructure services.
10 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com Sweden Environmental certification UK at leading car maker Making clothing slash-proof We helped Volvo Dealers Netherlands Romania Our textiles team helped Association to certify Safer plastic packaging Infrastructure laser scanning UK company PPSS to launch Volvo dealers in Sweden We help companies make We scan new oil and gas new slash-proof clothing against environmental plastic packaging safer for infrastructure in Romania technology used by police and quality management human health and comply to analyse their integrity for and security personnel.
Tunisia Oman Qatar India China Connecting solar farms Growing demand for oil and Inspecting new Industrial quality to the European grid gas services in the Emirates electrification networks assurance in Shanghai We are helping Nur Energie We are increasing our We inspect the quality Interteks inspection to develop a solar power tower inspection and lab analysis of transmissions as new services helped in the plant in Tunisia that will have work for local and international electrification networks are efficient construction a cable running across the oil and gas companies in the installed across India under of Shanghais leading Mediterranean and into Europe.
region to support their a national programme.
This will be the first major solar global trade.
export project in the world.
