Chief Executives Statement We improved our performance and grew our order book, and When each of us has an at the same time increased our investment in the Group in spite openmind, and is personally of the worst economic climate in decades.
We have established responsible and committed, a strong foundation and this makes us confident for the future.
we become abetter company I am particularly pleased with our ongoing success in winning and each employee becomes new large contracts in emerging markets, which will underpin our future growth.
Around 40% of our order book at the year even morecompetitive.
end was represented by emerging markets.
Ulf Henriksson Our success was based upon being prepared for an economic Chief Executive downturn and being agile in responding to it.
We disposed of and reduced our exposure to those businesses and markets that we felt were likely to be most affected by a recession, such as our commercial building systems and the low-end appliance market.
We invested in research and development to produce software, products and solutions that created a clear point of differentiation from the competition, with an emphasis on helping our customers to improve their performance.
We worked with our customers for our mutual benefit to manage the potential impact of the volatility and unpredictability of commodity prices.
We tailored our capital investment and restructuring to maximise our productivity gains in preparation for the recession.
Our success is also a consequence of the business model that we have had in place for the Group since 2005.
This has given us a Group that is better able to perform across the economic cycle and which maximises value through: Leveraging our global diversity we deliver products and services to around 180 countries.
Leveraging our industrial range we sell to all industries except finance and insurance.
Unlocking our peoples ability to make it happen.
Together these actions created the foundation that enabled us to bridge the recession.
Strategy The demand for our products and services is driven by the need for productivity as a result of: economic growth, urbanisation and population growth: the need to reduce waste and to increase efficiency: and the desire to respond quickly to an environment that is changing faster than ever.
Our strategy has remained broadly unchanged for five years, though we are agile in changing the way that we implement it to adapt to market conditions.
As a Group, we have based our strategy upon five principles: 1.
Being a thought leader when we have a seat at the table where customers make decisions by giving them a different point of view and solutions to enable their success.
| 12 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2.
Being a technology leader through the development of The Group industry-leading technologies for our customers that enable We also had another good financial performance with them to improve their businesses and operations with operating cash conversion of 107%.
Our balance sheet remains excellence in service, engineering and delivery.
strong, which is reflected in the investment grade rating from 3.
Being focussed on achieving higher margins by targeting Standard & Poors.
faster-growing countries and market segments with a high Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based return on operating capital employed.
These include countries upon our large order book and our current view of economic like China, India and Brazil and industries like nuclear power conditions.
We expect the Group to continue to deliver improved generation, rail infrastructure expansion in emerging markets, performance in the current year, with the phasing of profit and midand high-end appliances.
Being global, diverse, open and agile in our approach, thinking and abilities so that we unlock the potential of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR our people, our large installed base, our technology, our Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of economic long-term customer relationships and our customers need success, environmental stewardship, diversity and social for global support.
Being a value-driven company by living the Invensys Values.
We believe that by acting as a responsible global corporate Each of our divisions applies these principles to its own strategy.
citizen, we will not only minimise business risk but also enhance All this is supported by making bolt-on acquisitions that deliver our reputation as a business partner.
new technologies or market access and by leveraging our Our CSR report, which starts on page 24, contains detailed global capabilities of research and development, global supply descriptions of our achievements.
We have also published our chain, continuous improvement, legal, human resources and second Sustainability Report, which is available for download finance across our divisions.
Performance Our people Our divisions I am delighted with the commitment and excited by the At Invensys Operations Management, we have made progress capabilities of our people.
The recession has made us stronger in executing our strategy to help our customers to be more and has tested our ability to make things happen with limited efficient and empowered.
Throughout the world, we are winning resources and support.
To put it another way, our people do large and complex oil and gas and power projects.
InMay 2010, what they say they will do.
we were awarded a contract for the control and safety solutions for two further nuclear reactors in China following thecontract Many customers speak with me about our people in the for four reactors in December 2008.
Although we continued to context of lifelong relationships through good and bad times experience a decline in demand, particularly in North America but with a shared commitment to success.
and Europe, the order pipeline of prospects is growing.
When each of us has an open mind, and is personally responsible Operating margins returned to double digits in the second half.
and committed, we become a better company and each At Invensys Rail, we have made progress in executing our employee becomes even more competitive.
I stand for giving strategy to help customers increase capacity at the same time every employee opportunities to become even more capable, so as lowering their cost of ownership.
We continue to improve our that they have more freedom to choose the life they want to have.
market position in core regional markets and are expanding into The Invensys Values and our focus on our customers bring us new targeted regional markets for example inthe resignalling together and create a framework for success.
I believe that our of three metro lines in So Paulo due to our technology and people and our culture are our strengths.
The pipeline of order prospects is large and I am looking forward to continued success as a leading technology provider for the rail and transportation industry.
At Invensys Controls, we have executed our strategy well.
Despite a reduction in revenue, profitability has improved due to new product launches, restructuring and investment.
We are seeing signs that the overall consumer market is beginning to Ulf Henriksson recover, especially in the United States, and the operational Chief Executive gearing within the business will further help performance as volumes recover.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13
