Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Chief Executives review The first stage of AMECs journey is now done.
EBITA of Our health and safety performance was strong yet 271.8 million in 2010 was more than triple that in 2006 lost time incidents were 50 per cent above 2009 at and the 2010 EBITA margin of 9.2 per cent compared 0.06 per 200,000 exposure hours.
We seek to learn with 4.1 per cent in 2006.
This hard work by our 22,000 from every incident and we continue to explore new employees has positioned AMEC as a credible ways of keeping safety top of mind in everything we do.
long-term partner for our customers.
This commitment is recognised by our employees, as evidenced by our recent survey.
Our markets and our customers expectations have not stayed static during this period.
We are becoming The results of this, our third global employee survey, a more global organisation, as we follow the expansion were mixed.
Engagement levels remained good, plans of our clients.
There is continuing pressure on though down on 2009.
This may be a reflection of the margins and increasing flexibility and responsiveness global economy but our customers value the skills of is demanded, if we are to serve our customers well.
AMECs people, so we continue to invest in It is our job to manage this while creating additional development, including through the AMEC Academy value for all our stakeholders.
The next stage of our journey is growth, towards our Our carbon emissions reduction target see KPIs, Vision 2015.
We are striving to build a high-performing page 14 is only one small part of our sustainability company while the global economy is recovering.
agenda, as we see commercial advantage to be gained We must remain cost competitive, continuing to learn from supporting our customers own initiatives.
from our STEP Change programme.
We need to widen For example, we have been working with National Grid our customer reach, focusing on key segments, on a carbon capture and storage project in Scotland prioritising markets, reinforcing the strong delivery and on INEOS Bios first commercial scale advanced inherent in our brand and broadening our service bio-energy facility in the US.
We have to demonstrate Operational The changes made to the Group Management Team, Excellence and AMECs agility, in the speed of our in particular the appointment of Neil Bruce as Chief response to our customers challenges: the flexibility Operating Officer, will continue to support this growth.
in the way we deliver: our approach to innovation and Though sad to see Michael Blacker and Roger Jinks collaboration: and the engagement and skills of our announce their retirements, I am delighted to welcome employees across all of AMEC's sectors.
Hisham Mahmoud and Eleanor Evans to AMEC.
And We continue to strengthen and develop our customer finally, I have personally gained much from Jock relationships.
During 2010 we entered into a global Green-Armytages knowledge and insight and, on your agreement to support BP for their onshore facilities behalf, would like to thank him for his unstinting developments around the world: have been working service to AMEC.
to support EDFs architect engineer operations on their Despite uncertainty on the pace of economic recovery, UK nuclear new build programme: and have continued the latest IEA World Energy Outlook points to continued to deliver on the Kearl expansion project for Imperial increases in demand for energy.
AMEC is well Oil in the Canadian oil sands.
Further examples can be positioned to take advantage of this and has a clear found on pages 17 to 30. strategy for growth see page 6.
Our priorities for 2011 In 2010, underlying revenue growth was 8 per cent, are simple: to grow while maintaining margins by and we made a number of acquisitions including Entec continuing to deliver to our customers and invest in Holdings Limited.
Such growth needs to be aligned our employees.
with AMECs values and we set high standards against Samir Brikho which to measure delivery.
Chief Executive 3 March 2011 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 5
