ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14 Operating performance and Divisional summary Chief Executives statement Further strategic progress The Group has delivered a robust financial Groups average yield.
Administrative performance in a year that saw sentiment expenses before amortisation have in our markets move from recession to risen by 11% to 19.9 million, but the recovery.
Most of the events that took majority of this increase relates to place reflect the effects of the recession, transaction costs and overhead increase with only those taking place in the final associated with new acquisitions.
quarter of the year reporting significant Excluding these acquisition-related improvement over last years equivalent costs, administrative expenses before events.
The effects of last years recession amortisation have increased by circa 6%.
are evidenced by the expected 11% reduction in like-for-like volume sales.
Operating profits before amortisation and Average exchange rates of the Euro, our transaction costs were 36.6 million, which principal invoicing currency, were 5% represents a net operating margin of 32%.
Russell Taylor stronger against Sterling over the year Chief Executive Officer and this helped to mitigate the effect of Trading summary 2010 the sales shortfall on reported revenues.
As last year, the principal factor affecting the performance of individual events was Actual revenues for the year were where and when they took place in the 113.5 million 2009: 116.7 million, year.
The Russian economy began to show which in like-for-like terms is a reduction positive signs in Moscow shortly after the of circa 6%.
The biennial pattern of the beginning of the calendar year and has Moscow International Oil & Gas event gathered momentum since then.
In Central which did not take place this year Asia the signs of recovery lag Moscow by together with the impact of the recession six months and Ukraine, which suffered accounted for a 10 million reduction the worst of the recessions, has yet to from last years revenues.
In Turkey, Azerbaijan newly acquired businesses in the year and Uzbekistan the effects of the global were circa 8.0 million.
Approximately recession were moderate compared to the half of this came from new shows in impact on Russia, Central Asia and Ukraine.
Turkey previously owned by our former associate company and comprise relatively Events taking place in the first quarter of low priced large events.
The addition this financial year reflected the full impact of our new Indian exhibition business of the recession and were set against and a portfolio of Aquatherm events in comparative performances from October to Ukraine and Central Asia account for the December 2008 which enjoyed top of the balance of new acquisition revenue.
market conditions for our business.
Events We have continued to taking place from January to April enjoyed invest by acquiring The Groups gross margin has fallen to a mix of influences as their booking 49% from last years high of 52%.
This periods included periods of recession and complementary partially reflects ITEs biennial pattern, but also the beginnings of a recovery, and for businesses and is also a consequence of the new lowevents taking place after May the pattern yielding Turkish events in the portfolio was increasingly one of the recovering further strengthening which contributed 3.8 million of revenue, economy.
By September 2010 the events our market leading but at markedly lower yields than the had almost all of their bookings cycle made in an improving economic background.
events and brands Operating performance Overview and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Events held Space sold in the year 2 16 7 491,000m Brands Sectors have also responded differently to in September 2010, the World Food ITEs performance against its strategic the recession.
Construction, represented portfolio is still more than 20% smaller objectives is set out below: by the Build brand remains our largest than the comparative 2008 portfolio.
sector accounting for 39% of the Groups i To continue to strengthen and build revenue and has over the last two years The revenues and profits of the Groups on its existing market leadership been the most severely affected of ITEs business for this financial year are ITEs existing positions of market sectors.
Since 2008 the sector has fallen comparable to the results from the last leadership are based upon the strength in size by 26%.
Mosbuild, the dominant pre-recession year, 2008.
However in of its international sales network, its Moscow construction exhibition, took place the interceding two years the Group has market leading brands, established in April but was a net 16% smaller than the absorbed a 29% like for like fall in sales local offices and longstanding equivalent event in 2009, which itself had volumes from its core portfolio, and relationships with venues.
been 14% down on the 2008 peak result.
replaced the profits and revenues through Likewise Interstroyexpo, the international a combination of new business acquisitions, International sales reach construction event in St Petersburg, is favourable currency movements and cost ITEs International sales reach differentiates now running at about half of its 2008 reductions.
Accordingly as the Group it from its local competition in Russian size, and Balticbuild St Petersburg and enters 2011, the underlying base of the and CIS markets.
Through its subsidiary Kazbuild Kazakhstan are reduced to exhibition business is stronger than in sales offices the Group has built a circa 30% of their former peak sizes.
Oil 2008 and there is scope for a cyclical specialist skill base in promoting sales & Gas, represented by the IOGE brand recovery towards previous activity levels, into ITEs Russian and CIS exhibitions.
is ITEs second biggest sector accounting if economic circumstances continue In 2010 international sales accounted for circa 12% of revenue and replicated at to improve in the next few years.
for 35% of total metres sold in the year: seven events across our territories.
These through its London office 20%: its German events are beginning to recover with the ITEs strategy office 5%: its Chinese office 3% and its recovering oil price.
The portfolio was ITEs primary business objectives are to: Turkish office 3%.
International sales, 24% smaller in 2010 than its equivalent r create sustainable growth in having performed well in 2009, reflected peak in 2008.
ITEs travel exhibition brand headline earnings per share: and the recessionary slowdown this year.
accounts for circa 12% of Group revenue r create and maintain sustainable and is dominated by the Moscow, Turkish positions of market leadership ITEs market leading brands and Ukrainian events, all taking place in in the exhibition business ITE has established strong brand identity the spring season.
A substantial proportion in emerging markets.
in certain sectors of exhibitions.
In of their customer base comes from particular the Build brand in construction, government and regional authorities.
The ITEs strategic priorities for achieving these the Oil & Gas events brand, the ITE Travel 2010 events performed exceptionally well objectives are: exhibition and World Food brands all and collectively were only 13% lower than i to continue to strengthen and build have strong reputations and identities the 2008 peak events.
However, looking on its existing market leadership with customers, earned through forward there is now more pressure on ii to expand its business model into more than 15 years of sustained good many government budgets, particularly in other sectors and or geographies performance.
The Group is working to the Southern Mediterranean and Western where there is the potential to establish more recognised brands.
ITE now European holiday destinations and the create strong market positions runs Aquatherm events, under licence, trading environment for this sector next iii to grow and improve its portfolio in four of its markets and its security year is more challenging.
World Food of international exhibition brands portfolio is being expanded and will be is ITEs major food brand and accounts iv to invest in the development of represented in three markets next year.
Despite a management talent in ITE.
positive result from World Food Moscow ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 16 Operating performance and Divisional summary Chief Executives statement continued ITEs sales expertise, The actions taken during brand strength and local the last 18 months have office presence give it strengthened the Group a unique position in the and positioned it to Russian and CIS markets benefit from growth Building local presence ii To expand the business model iii To grow and improve its ITEs brands have built their reputation into other sectors and geographies portfolio of international brands through sustained delivery of successful where there is the potential to The Group has always had a presence exhibitions to customers.
The foundation create strong market positions in the heating and ventilation markets of this are ITEs local offices, which like its In existing markets the strategy targets through its own Heat-Vent brand.
exhibitions and brands, have been in place new sectors and regions where businesses Acquiring three shows with the rights to for over 15 years and today employ over can be acquired or developed and where use the Aquatherm brand in three more 650 people outside of the UK who manage there is potential for the participation of of its territories in addition to the Moscow local market sales and the details of staging international exhibitors.
In new markets event gives ITE the support of a strong an exhibition.
Critically they own and ITE is targeting the development of well-recognised international brand in manage the databases of visitors necessary exhibition businesses where there is clear this sector.
The existing construction for making an exhibition successful for opportunity for strong future growth.
events taking place in Kazakhstan and our customers.
ITEs local office skills in Azerbaijan have already benefited from Russia and CIS are a differentiating factor In November 2009 ITE acquired a this association.
The Groups management from other international organisers and small business in Delhi, India, running has been actively developing initiatives to a barrier to entry for new organisers exhibitions that serve the paper industry improve the strength of its existing brands.
wishing to run events in these markets.
and the mining, metals and metallurgy industries.
India does not yet have a iv To invest in the development Maintaining venue relationships mature exhibition industry and definitive of management talent in ITE ITE has established special relationships international exhibitions have not yet ITE has benefited over the years from with the venues that host its exhibitions.
ITE has entered the the commitment, loyalty and expertise Historically ITE has supported the India market with an aim to establish of its employees.
The exhibition industry development of venue facilities which in its brands and give it the best chance is not an established profession and so turn has helped the Groups exhibitions of winning a leading market position training and development is mostly on to grow.
Through this ITE has established as the exhibition industry develops.
the job and the responsibility of local the rights to run its main exhibition In February 2010 ITE acquired 100% offices.
As ITE grows it is important to themes in its chosen venues at the time of ownership of exhibitions in Turkey which maintain its culture and the Group has now its choice.
ITE has continued to work on serve the food, engineering, furniture and started a process of identifying, training maintaining its strong relationships over promotional gift industries.
These are all and developing selected individuals to the year and has successfully extended new sectors for ITE in Turkey.
There is a ensure continuity of quality management its forward venue bookings for key real opportunity to bring the Food show is generated internally in the future.
In Turkey the Group has secured into the World Food brand and to leverage the position of its new events with a relationships with international exhibitors.
