16 Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Dr Paul Davies Chief Executive JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 17 17 Our performance Accelerate the appraisal and We continue to focus on the 2010 was a challenging year for development of non-producing proven strengths that form JKX with drilling delays in Ukraine fields and reserves in our existing the backbone of JKX: an and construction delays on our portfolio, specifically at established presence in eastern Russian project.
Notwithstanding Rudenkovskoye in Ukraine and and central Europe: extensive these setbacks, the Company made Koshekhablskoye in Russia.
experience of local operating significant progress on its key Continue to optimise production conditions: production projects.
from the producing fields in and sales in buoyant local Average oil and gas production for Ukraine.
marketplaces: and locallythe year decreased by 11% to 10,324 based and managed operating Increase activity on our existing boepd 2009: 11,665 boepd due subsidiaries led by skilled and exploration and appraisal portfolio primarily to the unscheduled delay committed teams.
in mobilisation of a second drilling rig to our development licences in Maintain flexibility to acquire Poltava, Ukraine.
The effect of this additional interests in our focus production shortfall was essentially area, to increase production and offset by the rise in both oil and diversify geographically.
gas realisations, leaving revenues The fundamentals of our business broadly flat for the year at $192.9m and our markets are sound although 2009: $196.5m.
Operating profit we are experiencing some delay in before deduction of an exceptional turning upside into reality.
The installation and hook-up of the gas facility at Koshekhablskoye is The exceptional impairment now proceeding at pace.
Despite provision of $74.6m to the carrying on-schedule delivery of the key value of our Russian project components of the plant from is largely the result of delayed Sharjah to Russia in January, we are Production volumes boepd net-back convergence of Russian experiencing some slippage in the domestic gas prices to those of -11% hook-up and commissioning European gas markets and its schedule.
Consequently, we are impact on overall project economics.
12,579 revising our target for first gas to 11,665 We are now forecasting European 11,146 11,012 this autumn.
We continue to see 10,324 net-back parity for 2017. excellent forward value in the Russian gas market and, once Milestones and progress production is underway at In last years Annual Report, I laid Koshekhablskoye, we will turn our out two key goals by which we would focus to extending our Russian measure our performance.
These operations to exploit opportunities were to: elsewhere in what we regard as a 06 07 08 09 10 Reach in excess of 20,000 barrels region rich in potential.
of oil equivalent per day production In Ukraine, we drilled well R-103 on during 2011. the deep Rudenkovskoye tight gas Increase production at field as planned, and the Net cash from Rudenkovskoye from 2% of JKXs encouraging initial results support operating activities $m Ukrainian production in 2009 to our plans for the multi-frac -7% 25% in 2012. stimulation of the well later in the year.
Hook-up and commissioning of 126.5 126.5 We remain on target to achieve the 119.9 117.7 our LPG plant is underway at first milestone but have moved the Poltava and we are currently second milestone to 2013 to reflect scheduling to start initial deliveries 75.6 the current schedule for the by mid-year.
LPG continues to be an multi-frac operations planned for increasingly important energy the Rudenkovskoye field.
source in Ukraine and 2010 again We remain confident in our longsaw a sharp rise in the number of term prospects and are committed vehicles powered by LPG.
06 07 08 09 10 to our strategy, including the four Our operations in Hungary, where near-term objectives outlined in last we are a non-operator, have years Annual Report: 18 Chief Executives statement progressed well with production Our people will once again be at increasing in Hajdunanas supported the heart of our ambitions.
In the by the tie-in of the Gorbehaza-1 countries where we operate we have discovery.
Gas has been tested in the teams of highly skilled individuals, Tizsavasvari-6 and Nyekpuszta-2 most of them drawn from local exploration wells and further communities and many of them appraisal is planned in 2011.
In the UK, we have farm-in to the Turkeve licence has an experienced senior team that had mixed results with only one has been complemented in recent discovery to date.
weeks by the appointment of Sir Ian Prosser as Chairman.
A former Managing our risks Deputy Chairman of BP, Sir Ian has Risk is intrinsic to our industry and in-depth knowledge and experience we expend considerable resources of international business, and expertise in managing it.
During particularly in the oil and gas sector.
2010, we ensured that robust risk At JKX, we are committed to grow as management processes were in a Company and our ability to attract place, with oversight at Board level.
somebody of Sir Ians calibre speaks volumes about our capability Outlook and intent.
We have the people, the strategy and I welcome Sir Ian to the Company the resources to deliver a stepand am looking forward to working change in performance during the alongside him during what I believe coming 12 months.
will be an exciting, productive and We are confident that we will ultimately rewarding year.
I must commence production in Russia this also express my appreciation to our autumn and I look forward to this outgoing chairman, Peter Fraser, operation becoming an important who for the last 13 years has chaired contributor to net cash inflow.
this Company and supported me We are working hard to increase through every challenge we have production in Ukraine and this will faced.
play an important role in helping us reach our key objective of producing 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day during this year.
Start-up of our Ukrainian LPG facility by mid-year will also contribute an important value-added cash flow stream to our operations at Poltava.
