08 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review Chairmans and For footnotes turn to page 21.
Chief Executives statement For more detail about our financial performance turn to pages 18-21.
For more detail about corporate governance turn to pages 35-54.
Introduction Following a comprehensive Board review of 2010 2009 % 2010 Group performance $m $m Change strategy, the recently announced acquisition of Revenue 5,063.1 4,927.1 2.8% PSN and disposal of the Well Support division are EBITA 344.8 358.4 3.8% key strategic moves to significantly enhance our EBITA margin 6.8% 7.3% 0.5%pts focus on our core Engineering, Production Facilities Profit before tax 254.6 264.8 3.9% support and Gas Turbine Services activities.
Basic EPS 32.4c 32.1c 0.9% Adjusted diluted EPS 39.7c 41.8c 5.0% Following the expected second quarter completion Total dividend 11.0c 10.0c 10% ROCE 24.8% 26.3% 1.5%pts of these transactions, Wood Group will be well set to Cash generated from operations 394.5 545.5 27.7% grow its position as Revenue for the year was slightly up on 2009 but EBITA fell $13.6m to $344.8m.
Overall, our business focused on customer operating A world-leading engineering business with expenditure opex continued to deliver a good performance, although strong market positions in upstream, subsea and results were affected by the slow recovery in certain power markets.
pipelines In our capex-related Engineering activities, the relatively low bidding activity during 2009 carried forward into 2010, but picked up as the year The worlds leading production facilities support went on.
In Well Support, the higher average drilling rig level in the USA provider contributed to better volumes and profitability.
The worlds leading independent industrial gas Cash generated from operations was strong at $394.5m, following turbine aftermarket provider the exceptional 2009 performance.
Reflecting our continued confidence in the longer-term outlook, we are declaring a final dividend of 7.6 cents, With global exploration & production E&P spend which will bring the full dividend for the year to 11.0 cents, up 10% forecast to increase in 2011 and the global economy on 2009. continuing to recover, we anticipate a period of good Markets market growth over the next few years.
Global E&P spend is set to increase as oil & gas operators seek to extract additional hydrocarbons from existing assets and invest in exploiting increasingly challenging reservoirs.
In the oil & gas market, it is expected that the number of installations, both on and offshore, will Revenue by division continue to grow and, as the installations and reservoirs mature, asset Engineering & Production Facilities integrity and production enhancement spending will increase.
Well Support We are well positioned to support our customers around the world and, following the Macondo incident, we are seeing more client interest in our Gas Turbine Services asset integrity, process safety and performance assurance services.
The power market has been less active in 2010, particularly in North America and Europe, driven by excess generation capacity and generally poor economics for the electricity generation sector.
However, the longer-term fundamentals for gas fired power generation remain strong Revenue by region and we have recently won contracts in our Maintenance and Power North America Solutions businesses which reflect some recovery in the market and Europe provide a significant increase in Power Solutions backlog.
Middle East & Africa We believe the clean energy sector will grow over the longer-term, Asia Pacific albeit more slowly over the next few years.
We have some early contracts in this sector and our skills and expertise are well suited Central & South America for the future growth.
Energy Supporting Energy At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 09 : Right Sir Ian Wood, Right Allister Langlands, Chairman Chief Executive To read about our directors turn to pages 36-37.
Strategy implementation worked to build a great company.
We believe that GE Oil & Gas will We have announced two decisive steps to implement the Boards be an excellent new home for Well Support.
The combination will be strategic decision to enhance the Groups focus on its core Engineering, complementary in capabilities and technologies, and should benefit Production Facilities support and Gas Turbine Services activities.
In December 2010, we announced the proposed purchase of PSN, And once again, our very warm thanks, on behalf of the Board and who have over 8,000 personnel providing life of field support to oil & Senior Executives, to all Wood Group people around the world for their gas facilities through brownfield engineering, modifications, production commitment and dedication to satisfying our customers needs and enhancement, operations management, maintenance management and consistently achieving continuous improvement.
We are continuing to abandonment services.
Upon completion, PSN will merge with Wood invest in the training and development of our people and are increasingly Groups Production Facilities business to create Wood Group PSN, seeing the benefits of a global workforce.
We are also pleased to which will have 22,000 people in over 30 countries across the world support and encourage our people to become involved in community covering all the significant oil & gas development regions.
support activities around the world.
In February 2011, the Group agreed to sell its Well Support division to Risks and uncertainties GE Oil & Gas for $2.8 billion, which, we believe, fully recognises the Risks and uncertainties are inherent features of the oil & gas and power divisions strong performance and future prospects.
services industries and present challenges that cannot be completely eliminated.
However, we assess risk carefully and seek to mitigate these Following the expected second quarter completion of the PSN to ensure that we can keep our people safe, serve our customers and, acquisition and disposal of the Well Support division, Wood Group will at the same time, achieve acceptable returns.
be well set to grow its position as 4 Safety A world-leading engineering business with strong market positions Since 2004 we have seen year-on-year improvement in total recordable in upstream, subsea and pipelines case frequency and in 2010 maintained this trend with a further 6% The worlds leading production facilities support provider reduction.
This reduction was achieved through a series of proactive The worlds leading independent industrial gas turbine aftermarket initiatives with a focus on the higher risk areas of our operations.
Our provider commitment to achieving the highest standards of safety in everything we do was recognised through a series of industry awards around the Looking ahead, we will further develop these market-leading positions world.
Continuous improvement is a key measure of our success and is by extending services and broadening our international presence given the highest priority.
through organic and acquisition-led growth in important new markets including Angola, Brazil, Canada, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.
Outlook This has been an exciting and decisive re-positioning period.
Return of cash Our enhanced focus on our market-leading positions in greenfield Having considered the expected net proceeds from the disposal of engineering, production facilities support, and the industrial gas the Well Support division together with the forecast operating cash turbine aftermarket increases our capability to add value to our clients flow of the continuing Group, including associated working capital activities.
We are well positioned to take advantage of the improving requirements, the continuing Groups capex profile, nearer term market conditions and will continue to pursue our strategy of targeted acquisition opportunities and the recently announced acquisition of PSN, geographic expansion and extended services through organic and the Board intends that Wood Group will return cash to shareholders of acquisition-led growth.
Overall, we anticipate good growth over the next not less than $1.7bn.
Details regarding the return of cash are expected few years.
to be communicated to shareholders following completion of the disposal of the Well Support division.
The Board and people Michel Contie was appointed to the Board in February 2010.
On completion of the PSN acquisition it is intended that Bob Keiller, the CEO of PSN, will also join the Board.
John Ogren will retire from our Board in May this year after almost 10 years service.
His wide knowledge of the oil & gas industry has been absolutely invaluable in Sir Ian Wood, Allister Langlands, developing our growth strategy for North America in particular and we Chairman Chief Executive thank him warmly for his invaluable advice and counsel.
A special thank you this year and best wishes to all our management and employees in Wood Group Well Support with whom we have
