CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 2009 10 was a challenging year for Johnson Matthey but I am ECT is now well placed to continue to benefit from ongoing pleased to say that we rose to those challenges and the group recovery with a lower cost base and two new highly efficient performed well.
Revenue was flat at 7.8 billion and sales and low cost manufacturing facilities.
The first of these is in excluding precious metals were 5% up at 1.9 billion.
Underlying Macedonia to supply catalysts for both light and heavy duty profit before tax was 5% down at 254.1 million.
vehicles in Europe and the second in western Pennsylvania, The year started in the depths of a global recession which USA to supply heavy duty diesel catalysts to meet the US 2010 certainly impacted our first half.
However, the economic climate legislation that came into force on 1st January this year.
We now gradually improved throughout our second half aided by have a total of 14 emission control catalyst manufacturing facilities government efforts to stimulate the economy, particularly around the world.
through various car scrappage schemes, and continued Chinese Our ProcessTechnologies business continued to perform investment in the development of their energy resources and well throughout 2009 10 with strong growth in its sales to infrastructure.
As a result, the year ended with a very creditable ammonia and methanol markets which more than offset a result, with underlying profit before tax only 5% down on decline in sales to oil refineries, which suffered a fall in demand 2008 09, which had been a record year for us.
I would like to pay for transportation fuels due to the economic downturn.
During tribute to our management team who, despite being exposed to the year the business launched Apico, a new highly advanced unprecedentedly volatile and difficult market conditions, stepped methanol synthesis catalyst which brings a number of important up to the many challenges that they faced in their businesses benefits to our customers around the world.
We are confident and produced such good results.
We very quickly went from a that it will make a major contribution to ProcessTechnologies situation where many of our businesses were running hard to growth in 2010 11 and for many years ahead.
keep up with strongly growing demand for their products to one Our Fuel Cells business continued to increase its sales of rapid and dramatic market contraction.
It is to their great despite the impact that the recession had on several of its credit that they took the right decisions, quickly and efficiently.
smaller customers and the outlook for this year is encouraging.
They did this without being told to do so, something that I Precious Metal Products Division was impacted by lower believe reflects a great strength in Johnson Matthey.
prices and subdued demand for platinum group metals, Given the economic backdrop, our Environmental especially in the first half of the financial year.
However the Technologies Division performed well in 2009 10.
Its Emission divisions performance improved in the latter part of the year.
ControlTechnologies ECT business was hit quite hard at a Its manufacturing businesses, including our platinum group relatively early stage of the recession as a result of plummeting metals refining business, were slower to feel the effects of the vehicle production, especially in North America, Europe and recession than our ECT business and were also slower to begin Japan.
However, its light duty business came back steadily to emerge from it.
However, their performance showed signs of throughout the second half of the year aided by the scrappage improvement towards the end of the year.
By contrast, our gold schemes and also by dramatic growth of demand in China.
and silver refining business had a very strong year driven by the high gold price and buoyant demand for investment bars.
Fine Chemicals Division had a mixed year.
Its active pharmaceutical ingredients manufacturing businesses in the UK and the USA performed well and the division received the one-off US $12 million benefit from the launch of the first generic byTeva Pharmaceutical Industries.
version of ADDERALL XR However, its contract research business continued to feel the effects of the recession on venture capital funding for new drug Neil Carson development by many of its smaller customers.
We have Chief Executive therefore taken action to restructure operations at its facility in Massachusetts, USA which has led to 1.6 million in redundancy and other costs and an 11.3 million impairment charge in respect of redundant assets in 2009 10.
Our investment in expanding our market presence and manufacturing infrastructure in Asia, particularly in China, has served us very well in this recession.
We currently have four manufacturing plants in China with a fifth, to manufacture plate type catalysts to control NOx emissions from coal fired power stations, in the process of being commissioned.
We are also pleased that we have a linked yet relatively diverse portfolio of businesses in catalysts, precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology that helped us to weather the storm of recession.
4 - Johnson Matthey In last years annual report we announced that in response Emission ControlTechnologies is expected to perform well in to the market turmoil we intended to reduce our capital the early part of the year as the impact of government scrappage expenditure to around 1.2 times depreciation.
This has still schemes coming to an end may take some time to feed through enabled us to pursue growth opportunities in our businesses, to our business.
Its performance should also benefit from some despite the recession.
In 2009 10 we spent 134.4 million stock building by our customers.
ProcessTechnologies is also 1.2 times depreciation on capex projects.
These included the expected to continue growing steadily.
As a result, Environmental construction of our Chinese plate type catalyst manufacturing Technologies Divisions operating profit in the first six months of facility along with the completion of our emission control catalyst 2010 11, particularly in the first quarter, should be significantly manufacturing plants in Macedonia and western Pennsylvania ahead of the first half of 2009 10. and our facility in Clitheroe, UK to manufacture our Apico Precious Metal Products Division supplies products and methanol synthesis catalyst.
services to a wide range of industries, some of which have recovered from the recession more quickly than others.
The divisions results benefit in part from the strength of platinum Sustainability group metal prices and the platinum price in the first two months We have continued to focus on sustainability efforts across our of 2010 11 has averaged $1,677 oz, which is approximately 45% business this year and sustainability remains a key element of higher than in the same period last year.
However, prices have our strategy for future growth.
The groups Sustainability 2017 been highly volatile, especially over the last few weeks.
The Vision sets out our aspirations and targets in this area.
It is also performance of the divisions manufacturing and refining directing our efforts for improving the resource efficiency of our businesses are also much stronger than this time last year.
Taken operations and for designing the next generation of products to together, the results for the division in the first half of 2010 11 enable our customers to be more sustainable and competitive.
should also be significantly ahead of the same period in 2009 10.
We have continued to realise considerable savings through our The performance of our Fine Chemicals Division is more sustainability programme and a significant proportion of profit predictable as its key markets are less impacted by volatility in this year was generated by environmentally beneficial products.
We expect that its businesses will continue However, growing our business through sustainability is not only to grow steadily but the divisions results in the first half of about our operations and products.
Protecting the health, safety 2010 11 will be impacted by the absence of the one-off benefit and wellbeing of our employees has always been a key priority in 2009 10 associated with the launch of the generic version of in Johnson Matthey and it is their contribution that will underpin.
ADDERALL XR the growth of our business in the years ahead.
In 2008 09 we The groups performance in the second half of 2010 11 saw a disappointing increase in our lost time accident rate.
We is harder to predict, not only because of the uncertainties have taken action this year to revitalise our accident prevention surrounding the global economy, but also due to factors that processes and I am pleased to say that our rate of occupational more directly influence our business.
These include uncertainties accidents involving lost time has fallen to its lowest reported level.
over the impact on vehicle sales as government vehicle scrappage We have continued to make steady progress towards the schemes come to an end, when and how quickly the important Sustainability 2017 aspirations in 2009 10 although much of the North American heavy duty diesel market recovers and the progress to date has been achieved by incremental improvements strength of continued growth in demand for our products in in operational and process efficiencies, the so called low hanging China.
Notwithstanding these uncertainties, we are confident fruit.
We have recognised the need to focus further on the step that the group is well positioned to take advantage of a global change opportunities that will drive accelerated progress towards economic recovery.
our 2017 targets and add real value to Johnson Matthey.
The longer term drivers for the group remain very much in place with ever tightening emissions standards around the world.
Outlook The demand for energy security globally and the drive to reduce the environmental impact of chemical and industrial processes This time last year, the group faced considerable uncertainty also plays to the strengths of Johnson Matthey.
Together these given the global economic turmoil that surrounded us.
Whilst give us confidence in the future.
Over the last few turbulent there is greater economic optimism today, substantial uncertainties years we have continued to invest in research and development still remain, as illustrated by the recent volatility in European and in expanding production capacity where we see markets.
Quite how these will affect consumer confidence opportunities for growth.
We have a strong remains to be seen.
The group continues to expect to make balance sheet, a proven business model and are well placed to good progress in the first half of 2010 11, where underlying return to growth.
profit before tax should be significantly higher than the same period of 2009 10.
In the first six months of 2010 11, Environmental Technologies Division will benefit from relatively easy comparatives as it was particularly affected by the global slowdown in automotive demand in the first quarter of 2009 10.
Neil Carson Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Case Study Environmental Technologies Division Emission ControlTechnologies, Macedonia Johnson Mattheys new 34 million European emission control catalyst plant in Macedonia uses world class manufacturing technology to produce innovative catalysts for light and heavy duty vehicles in Europe.
The new facility, which has created around 150 new jobs, has initial capacity to produce four million units per year to serve the rapidly growing demand for emission control products in Europe.
