veRtically integRated ouR unique stRength Kazakhmys is one of the few fully integrated copper producers in the world.
This allows us to exercise control over every stage of the process, from mining ore through to the production of finished copper metal.
Our operations are even supplied by energy from our own power plants, which are fuelled by our own coal mines.
This fully integrated approach helps make us one of the lowest cost copper producers in the world, and provides us with the flexibility to serve a variety of end markets.
2 17mines smelting and feeding ore to refining plants 10 concentrators mining and concentrating smelting and refining Kazakhmys operates 17 copper mines across Kazakhmys operates two smelting and refining Kazakhstan which, in 2010, produced 32.9 million plants, where the copper concentrate is first tonnes of copper ore with an average grade, smelted in furnaces to produce copper plates, or copper content, of 1.09%.
or anodes, which have a copper content of around 98%.
Kazakhmys operates both underground and open pit mines, and employs a variety of extraction The anodes are then sent to the electro-refinery methods depending upon the mine and to produce copper cathode.
The cathodes have geological conditions.
In addition to copper, we a minimum copper content of 99.95%.
We also produce significant quantities of zinc, silver and operate facilities for producing copper rod, gold, which are sold as by-products.
The mined which is principally sold in the Chinese market.
ore is crushed and then processed in one of the Groups 10 concentrators.
17 mines 10 concentrators 32.9 million tonnes of ore 335 kt copper in concentrate average grade of copper in ore 2 smelter refineries 1.09% 303 kt copper cathode 4 Integrated logistics power stations and services power support services and logistics We operate our own coal mines and power plants A key aspect of our integrated business model to supply heat and electricity to our operations and is operating our own support services.
In 2010, our three engineering teams which manufacture the captive power facilities produced 5,684 GWh of key parts and materials we require, through to electricity, 62% of which was used internally.
We construction companies to build the infrastructure operate three coal mines which have combined we depend on.
We also operate our own transport network, Separate to our captive power facilities, including around 1,100 km of railway Kazakhmys owns 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1, infrastructure, for transporting material across the largest power station in Kazakhstan.
This network is linked to Kazakhstans the plant produced 11,065 GWh of power, the main national rail trunk lines.
The Group owns majority of which was supplied to the Kazakhstan over 100 locomotives and over 800 wagons.
energy market, and around 8% was sold to This provides us with the independence and Russia.
Our combined power facilities make flexibility to respond quickly to opportunities us the largest power provider in Kazakhstan, and developments as they arise.
with over 20% of the domestic market.
output from ekibastuz gRes-1 Railways 11,065 GWh 1,100 km output from captive stations locomotives and wagons 5,684 GWh 900 ideally positioned FoR the signiFicant gRowth oppoRtunities oF centRal asia Our location in Kazakhstan allows us to serve the worlds two largest copper markets and to be flexible in our response to customer demand.
Kazakhstan also has a number of key advantages for future development.
The land is naturally rich in resources, with a wide range of commercially attractive deposits, and strong and reliable transport links.
a Kazakh business Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in the world, similar to the size of Western Europe.
It has a strong track record in attracting Foreign Direct Investment, which amounts to over $120 billion since independence in 1991.
Europe Kazakhmys is one of the largest and most influential companies in Kazakhstan, with annual revenues that 2nd largest global represent around 2% of the countrys gross domestic product.
We are also one of the countrys largest taxpayers and employers with over 60,000 employees.
copper market Kazakhstan Balkhash Complex 40-50% of our current number of Kazakhmys employees copper output and all of Zhezkazgan Complex our precious metal Black Sea production 61,000 employees China The largest global copper market 38% of global consumption and home to our biggest customers A senior engineer visiting one of our sites in the East Region.
Focused on operating responsibly Kazakhmys strives to be responsible in all of its operations.
This includes providing a fair, safe and healthy workplace, protecting the environment and developing the communities in which we operate.
We believe this approach will directly enhance shareholder value, by increasing access to capital and lowering operational costs.
Operating responsibly will also maintain our reputation and assist the continued cooperation of local communities, as well as helping us attract and retain the best employees.
total social spend $200 million additional contracts with local suppliers $30 million Preparing pipes to take water to Satpayev.
Europe 2nd largest global copper market Kazakhstan Balkhash Complex 40-50% of our current copper output and all of Zhezkazgan Complex our precious metal Black Sea production China The largest global copper market 38% of global consumption and home to our biggest customers
