Chief executives review Paul Sheffield, chief executive KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 6 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw 1.
OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER 3.
HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON We are committed to delivering quality and professionalism in the following ways: ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS MODEl Our integrated business model, combined with our resources, expertise and experience, allows us to offer a quality single solution for customers at every stage of the building, property, infrastructure and services life-cycle.
1 OuR COMBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER Our flexible, customer-led solutions enable us to meet our clients requirements and to add value to their property infrastructure through a variety of combined, high-quality services that are both bespoke and seamless.
2 HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON Our vision is to be the most highly respected company in the industry.
To achieve this we pledge to offer our customers the best quality of service, to maintain our robust approach to corporate responsibility and to drive sustainable, 3 profitable growth.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 7 ONE iNTEGRATED BuSiNESS mODEl Our four divisions work together to deliver services across the entire built environment process.
Our integrated approach covers planning and investment, development and design, construction and infrastructure works, as well as building maintenance and facilities management.
1 At the end of the property life-cycle, we undertake refurbishment or complete regeneration.
CONSTRuCTiON p16 SuPPORT SERViCES p22 PARTNERSHiP HOMES p26 DEVElOPMENTS p30 Planning, whether for local authority For both public and private sector Development is what we do.
As an consent or in project planning itself, customers, we have the track record independent property developer, in is the first series of hurdles to any and resources to help plan, manage joint venture with other operational building or infrastructure project.
and discharge investment financial partners, or as part of major The Developments division, through requirements, whether for third-party regeneration or mixed-use its property development arm, commercial, industrial, retail, schemes.
The Developments division has strategic property planning at residential or local authority property combines with the Construction, the heart of its operations, whilst requirements.
The Developments Partnership Homes and Support the Partnership Homes division division via its property, project Services divisions to offer customers undertakes planning solutions for all investment our business for PFi a complete property development of its residential schemes across the projects and asset partnership and infrastructure service for any uK.
Our in-house expertise in design business teams can offer a range scheme in the uK.
and build is backed by our 3D and 4D of possible property development modelling and visualisation tools.
solutions to maximise customers asset values.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 8 PlAN iNVEST DEVElOP C CH HiiE Ef f E EX XE EC Cu uT TiiV five ES S R RE EV ViiE Ew w 1 1.. O ON NE E iiN NT TE EG GR RA AT TE ED D B Bu uS SiiN NE ES SS S M MO OD fide El l 2 2.. O Ou uR R C CO OM MB BiiN NE ED S D ST TR RE EN NG GT TH H: O : ON NE E K KiiE ER R 3 3.. H HO OW W W WE W E WO OR RK K: O : Ou uR R V ViiS SiiO ON N With 32 regional offices and the Already maintaining over 240,000 We have an enviable track record Turning full circle in the property experience and expertise provided by homes across the uK and providing in refurbishing, converting and life-cycle, we have the experience some 5,200 employees worldwide in facilities management services modernising existing building stock, and capabilities to completely our construction businesses, major to a wide range of both private whether inner-city commercial regenerate brownfield sites or projects unit and civil engineering and public sector customers, we and retail units, local government redundant buildings, including business, we can construct just are better placed than most of buildings, mixed-use schemes or demolition, remediation of about anything anywhere in the uK our peers to provide the complete residential projects.
We are also contaminated land, planning, and overseas.
When allied to the range of both reactive and planned recognised as one of the leading ground and civil engineering, expertise of our Partnership Homes maintenance services as well as contractors for refurbishing and design & build services for division, these resources and track waste collection and recycling, street renovating listed and historic commercial, residential, retail record of building across every major scene and grounds maintenance.
buildings, with many examples and or industrial redevelopment.
market sector ensure that we can These services, together with the across the uK.
Whether full turnkey management meet any customers requirements.
design, installation and maintenance and delivery or individual of full-scale M&E projects, give packages, we can provide any us capabilities in all maintenance redevelopment solutions.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 9 CONSTRuCT MAiNTAiN REFuRBiSH REGENERATE OuR COmBiNED STRENGTH: ONE KiER Whatever a customer requires at any stage of the built environment life-cycle, one or more of our businesses can bring them solutions, individually or combined, locally or nationally.
Our network of regional offices and our strong local relationships ensure that we 2 can supply both the skills and the resources to meet customer demands, any time, anywhere.
CONSTRuCTiON p16 Key customers Key facts Regional building contractors Ministry of Justice Offices across uK 32 Major projects NHS Construction Network Rail Employees expatriate & Civil engineering united utilities locally employed working 1,287 infrastructure EDF Energy on overseas contracts Mining Sainsburys Overseas local authorities Average number of 3,945 Technical services Overseas Abu Dhabi employees during the year Jamaica Saudi Arabia Hong Kong Key contracts Key facts SuPPORT SERViCES p22 Sheffield City Council Building Maintenance Offices & depots Homes for islington Reactive & planned 25 in the uK North Tyneside Council local authorities & housing associations Stoke-on-Trent City Council Facilities Services Homes being 240,000 Hull City Council Facilities management & maintenance maintained Barnsley Metropolitan M&E installation & maintenance Borough Council Street Services Employees 5,781 Harlow District Council Waste collection & recycling Harrow Council Street scene & grounds maintenance Plant internal & external plant hire Key core skills Key facts PARTNERSHiP HOMES p26 Total homes delivered in-house design & Mixed-tenure affordable homes 1,060 planning capability Private homes Expertise in Code for Private homes 499 Sustainable Homes Skills to integrate Social housing 561 mixed-tenure sales HCA Developer Partner status 5,700 Plots in land bank Affordable housing specialist 303 Employees Regeneration expertise Key projects Key facts DEVElOPMENTS p30 PFi schemes in portfolio Ordnance Survey HQ, Property 13 Southampton Commercial, offices, retail, industrial, Properties serviced Network Rail joint venture mixed-use 6,700 within Sheffield City station developments Project investment Norfolk & Suffolk Police Delivering private finance initiatives Properties sites investigation centres Asset Partnership Services 26 under development Sheffield City Council local authority property management & non-residential development Railway stations 8 property portfolio in development Employees 101 10 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw 1.
HOW WE WORK: OuR ViSiON FullY iNTEGRATED SOluTiONS Kier has the ability to offer customers a completely integrated turnkey solution to the built environment by providing the full range of investment property development or PFi, planning and design, construction, including M&E design and installation, infrastructure provision, building maintenance, soft and hard facilities management and regeneration, by combining the appropriate resources of our four divisions.
Key projects: Solum Regeneration Kier & Network Rail JV: Ordnance Survey HQ at Adanac Park multi Kier business unit delivery through Kier Property: the Kier Project investment PFi Norfolk & Suffolk Police investigation units: Reading Central a Kier Property & Kier Regional delivered project.
STRATEGiC AlliANCES Kier combines the resources of its various business units to deliver coordinated and consistent services bespoke to key market sector customers and the specific needs and specialisations of their sector requirements.
These strategic alliances are usually delivered nationwide or regionally through framework agreements or other forms of partnering with customers.
Key alliances: Airports, custodial, education, health, retail, leisure, power, rail, water, public services, greening & carbon reduction retrofitting.
ONE KiER Our solutions to meet customers requirements are manifested in ADDiNG VAluE several different business unit in partnership with customers, any part of the Kier business combinations each of which delivering an existing project or service is able to provide represents one single, coordinated added value to customers by bringing in other parts of the and consistent Kier service.
Group both upstream and downstream in the property process.
in this way our offering can be broadened by bringing planning, investment, general construction, housebuilding, FM and or other resources to help a customer whose needs may change, expand or diversify.
Recent service contracts leading to value-added additional services to meet customer requirements: Kier North Tyneside building maintenance project: Kier Sheffield llP with associated Kier Asset Partnership Services in Sheffield.
EVOlViNG NEW SERViCES Kier has the financial strength, the ability and the resources to adapt its offering of services to meet any customers requirements in the built environment.
Whether through acquisition or through creating and developing new areas of expertise and resources within the Group, we are proactive in providing solutions where a customers need has been identified.
Recent examples of new Kier services: Kier Waste acquisition of Pure Recycling facility and waste services.
Kier Energy innovations retrofitting carbon reduction solutions in the built environment.
Kier Public Sector Services bundled services to support local authorities.
Kier Compliance Services fire, safety and environmental regulatory compliance.
KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 11 HOw wE wORK: OuR ViSiON By providing our customers with the highest possible quality of service and through sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is to be the most highly respected company in the industry.
By maintaining our core values and remaining focused on improvement & 3 delivery, our vision will become reality.
HOw managing responsibility Corporate governance p52 Business ethics Business risks p44 www.
co. uk responsibility ethics The Code Macro-economic climate Compliance with the code Board of directors Contract & build Duty to report non-compliance Board evaluation land & property development acquisition Health, safety & environmental Audit Committee investment protection Remuneration Committee People Equal opportunity & workplace diversity Nomination Committee legal & regulatory Human rights internal control Health, safety & environmental Business ethics & legal compliance Relations with shareholders information technology Conflicts of interest Pensions Brand management improper payments Counterparty Compliance with laws prohibiting Availability of finance & bonding facilities Our brand the Kier name and anti-competitive activity Reputation reputation is of fundamental value Supplier relations and has taken much time and effort from Corporate responsibility p35 dedicated staff to establish.
We are integrated financial control committed to protecting, nurturing and Environment & climate change enhancing the Kier brand through the Our business model delivers a solid return Workplace health & safety delivery of our corporate vision and values.
Cash generated Workplace employees & training By maintaining our core values and from Construction & Support Services is Marketplace customers & supply chain remaining focused on improvement and invested in strategic acquisitions including Community engagement delivery, our vision will become a reality.
property developments and private Considerate Constructors Scheme finance initiatives.
Our core values: Be enthusiastic, open & honest Be proactive, committed & safe Be a team Be Kier wHAT Professionally delivering quality wHO Nurturing stakeholder relationships What Kier and its constituent parts do as a business Who we work with and for is of vital importance to is to provide a full range of quality services to plan, Kier.
We value customers and aim to deliver the invest in, build, manage, maintain and service the highest quality of services in all we do and therefore built environment nationwide and overseas.
We build our supply chain partners, subcontractors and upon relationships with customers by offering our suppliers alike, are key to enabling us to deliver the services through individual business units or a best quality of product and service.
We could not do combination of businesses customised to best meet this without our other key component in the mix of the specific requirements of each customer.
stakeholders our employees, their quality and professionalism.
Finally, all these stakeholders combine to give value to our shareholders and society at large, our broadest stakeholders the public and the communities within which we work.
12 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 Chief executives review Continued Key highlights Revenue Profit before tax Net cash balances after the amortisation of intangible assets and before exceptional items 2,099m 55.5m 9.7% 175.2m 2009: 2,146m 2009: 50.6m 2009: 92.5m Earnings per share Cash inflow after the amortisation of intangible assets and before exceptional items 115.5p 17.7% 82.7m 2009: 98.1p Overview The year to 30 June 2010 has been another before exceptional items and on the same basis successful one for the Group.
underlying profit before earnings per share were 17.7% ahead at 115.5p tax is ahead of last year, revenues are at similar 2009: 98.1p benefiting in part from a 6% reduction levels to last year and cash generation has been very in our effective tax rate following the agreement of strong, closing the year at a record level.
certain issues with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Our integrated business model continues to this year.
The trading result for the year was supported by provide Kier with many unique opportunities brought Chief executive Paul Sheffield about by our financing and planning skills as well strong cash generation.
Overall there was an inflow provides quarterly video webcasts as our strong track record of construction delivery of 82.7m resulting in record year-end net funds of discussing the Groups performance.
175.2m 2009: 92.5m, reflecting the sale of These are available on our website.
co. uk the uK Supreme Court asset which generated over financial performance 30m, together with a strong cash performance Revenue for the year at 2,098.7m was slightly from the Construction division and a further below last years 2,145.6m.
Support Services and unwinding of our cash investment in the Partnership Homes division.
Partnership Homes both achieved growth in revenues and in Construction uK revenue grew marginally offsetting a decline in overseas revenues as a conseGroup structure and strategic developments quence of a contraction in our overseas markets.
Our integrated business model is supported by four divisions: Construction, Support Services, underlying operating profit for the Group, after the amortisation of intangible assets, was 12.8% Partnership Homes and Developments.
The Groups ahead of last year at 56.5m 2009: 50.1m, again management structure and segmental analysis for achieved from growth in Support Services together reporting purposes are based on these four divisions.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on growth with Partnership Homes which benefited from land disposals in the year.
areas in each of our divisions, enhanced by the Exceptional items amounted to a net gain of many opportunities that arise through our integrated 2.2m for the year 2009: net charge of 27.3m model.
By drawing on our strong relationships with both private and public sector clients, Kier is able as follows: a gain of 16.0m arising from changes announced to offer integrated property solutions through the in the recent Budget which apply to local authority provision of a range of services including investment, pension schemes and in our particular case planning and design, construction, infrastructure provision, building maintenance, soft and hard to the South Yorkshire Pension Fund in which employees of Kier Sheffield llP participate: facilities management and regeneration: combined a 4.2m gain arising from the sale of two PFi services which few other single organisations are investments: offset by equipped to offer.
Our Developments team, which includes financial a provision of 18.0m in respect of a fine levied by the Office of Fair Trading following its invesand planning expertise, is a key catalyst for genertigation into the construction industry.
We have ating integrated opportunities across the Group.
appealed against the amount of the fine.
its relationships with local authorities continue to provide the Group with the potential to consolProfit before tax for the year was 9.7% ahead idate and develop council-owned properties for the of last years at 55.5m 2009: 50.6m after benefit of both clients and Kier.
The division will the amortisation of intangible assets and require more cash investment in the short-term 14 KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 CHiEf EXECuTiVES REViEw 1 1.
Sainsbury laboratory Complex, Cambridge Kier Build Pictured: Kier Group chief executive Paul Sheffield on site at the university as opportunities for further development arise.
pressures which they are facing by providing of Cambridges Sainsbury laboratory with Kier Build operations director However, we will continue our strategy of pursuing innovative funding and development solutions and louisa Finlay left and project largely non-speculative development by ensuring assisting them in their desire to bundle several manager Nick Mann right.
we secure pre-lets or pre-sales prior to the services into one contract.
The last few years have seen our housing in Construction, conditions remain challenging, business refocus more heavily on social and principally as a consequence of financial restrictions affordable housing provision.
Kier Partnership on our public sector clients.
However our strong Homes has the capability, through its relationships and diverse business model enables us to pursue with public sector bodies and housing associations, a range of opportunities, particularly those in areas to deliver social and mixed-tenure dwellings across of non-discretionary investment, such as: the country.
Whilst its origins were in private develpower, where we are market leader in the opment, as a result of which the land bank contains provision of civil engineering works: around 5,700 plots, the selling and marketing skills utilities: and required for mixed-use development combine well waste, a strong and growing market including with our ability to identify innovative planning as recycling and power generating opportunities.
well as financing solutions to deliver these developments.
The opportunities arising out of our Other growth areas include: position on the Homes and Communities Agency retail: HCA delivery partner panel should also yield further r ail, including opportunities arising out of Crossrail: substantial regeneration prospects.
The restrucinternational projects, where we are rebuilding tured model is likely to provide annual revenues our business from a low base in Saudi Arabia, in the medium-term of around 300m at blended Abu Dhabi and Hong Kong: and operating margins of around 7% and a lower working mixed-use developments, across all Kier divisions.
capital requirement than is necessary for a pure private housebuilding business.
in the meantime in Support Services, where we anticipate our land bank is a valuable asset, becoming more achieving annual revenues in excess of 500m so as planning restrictions bite further, which we by 2012, the economic environment in which we will develop or sell over time in order to unlock our find ourselves is providing opportunities for our cash investment.
business, particularly in outsourcing contracts.
Our bidding teams are busier then ever helping our local authority partners to address the budgetary KiER GROuP PlC ANNuAl REPORT AND ACCOuNTS 2010 15
