Making Ladbrokes favourite Below are the six critical success factors which the business has prioritised in order to realise its strategic ambition and grow shareholder value Building diin n ng g g g upon u u up our retail strength Optimise machine performance, operational efficiency and cost reduction.
Margin enhancement and leverage intelligence from OddsOn!
Focusing on cus s s siiiiiin n n ng g g o Establis bllliiiiis s s shing a h h h h h hiiin brand and strong digital consumer capability Evolve the brand based Develop best in market products.
upon integrated approach to Most effective customer marketing, placing customer acquisition and retention.
experience and insight at the Widen distribution through heart of our offer mobile leadership Deliv eliv v five e e e ering r r r riiiing Maint int t t t ta a a a aining iiiiiin n nin technological regulatory excellence leadership Invest in technology solutions Continue to play a lead to increase control over and role in ensuring changes differentiation of product to tax and charges are commercially equitable Dev five elop o llllo o o op p p p our pricing, trading and liability management Create competitive pricing, trading and liability management to improve product range and optimise margin Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 08 Chief Executives review Richard Glynn Chief Executive Why did you want to join What were the most significant Ladbrokes?
things you found when you joined Put simply I wanted the best job in the sector and Im the Company?
delighted to have been given the opportunity.
When I think I undertook a thorough assessment of the business when back to when I was in my twenties my friends and I would Ijoined.
I wanted to look at its strengths and weaknesses all go to Ladbrokes when we wanted to place a bet.
It was and make an honest appraisal of where we were and where a growth company and an innovator.
In recent years it we needed to be.
I have to say that while I have identified has become less competitive.
However I believe it has many things that can be improved there are also many significant core strengths and upside potential and with things that have impressed me and even surprised me a clearer focus, some targeted investment, a lot of hard about this Company.
I knew before I came that Ladbrokes work and more decisive execution, we can restore had a strong brand, a strong balance sheet and a reputation Ladbrokes to its industry leading position.
for working effectively with regulators.
This is a big opportunity because there are some very clear Ive been impressed at the strength of the Retail estate and achievable things that we can do that will make a big andthe continued focus on operational efficiency and difference to this Companys position in the marketplace.
costcontrols as well as the many talented people here who This year we have been able to make a start on some of havewelcomed the opportunity to contribute to a genuine these things and this has already helped us to achieve some change in our culture and approach.
Their impressive level good results.
Whilst we have now broken ground, the next of knowledge and a willingness to work hard is coupled with two years will be crucial as we develop our technology, a tangible desire for success.
If I didnt know it before I marketing capabilities and business intelligence, came, I am now convinced that the core ingredients needed foundations that will enable us to compete more to reignite this business are all here.
I did find a lack of effectively in a fast-changing marketplace.
strategic direction, underinvestment and a siloed approach What has been clear to me for some time is that Ladbrokes to doing business that was holding the Company back.
has been over-reliant on its brand and has not invested However we have worked, and continue to work, hard to enough to enable it to compete.
I believe that with a much address these historical weaknesses and to outline a clear clearer strategic approach and the right investment to path to making the business great again.
enable it, we can make Ladbrokes favourite.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09 Business review i Building upon our retail strength Chief ii Focusing on brand and consumer Executives iii Maintaining regulatory leadership review iv Developing our pricing, trading continued and liability management v Delivering technological excellence vi Establishing a strong digital capability In some areas we are more advanced than others for example in Retail we have done some excellent work to control costs and optimise the profitability of the estate.
The contract with Global Draw, announced earlier in 2010, to supply new machines to our UK shops began in January What do you think are your key 2011.
We expect the new machines, their enhanced content and an improved operational focus to drive material challenges at Ladbrokes?
improvements to machine profits in 2011.
The most recent success of the business has primarily been Our brand is strong, but we have been underinvested in driven by an operational focus on retail betting and gaming.
it over recent years and it has lacked consistency.
We Whilst our Digital business has grown significantly since nowneed to make it more relevant to todays consumers.
launching in 2000, it is currently not as competitive as it We also know that Ladbrokes has a strong regulatory ought to be in a rapidly evolving marketplace, particularly reputation and we will continue to focus on this area when you consider our brand heritage.
There are several to ensure that regulation is sensible and proportionate challenges which we must meet head on in order to in those markets where we currently operate and may change this.
choose to operate in the future.
In order to address them we first needed to restructure the The final three areas are interlinked and rely on us investing siloed nature of the business.
Operationally the Company in systems, skills and technologies to maximise the has historically been divided by product with a lack potential of the business across all channels and across ofalignment meaning an inconsistent and at times our existing markets.
We have put in place acompletely new management structure with roles and By building an optimised pricing, trading and liability responsibilities focused on delivering to the customer, management system we can offer an improved range of regardless of the channel.
products, including wider and deeper Bet In Play markets.
Itwill also enable us to maximise our margin.
Having set the structure it was crucial that we brought in theright people to enhance our existing talent base.
During This relies on having the best trading platform available and 2010 we appointed: Gary McIlraith, Director of Digital that means investment in technology.
Technology is also Channels, International Development and Strategy: Nick core to our Digital business where we are already focused Rust, Managing Director of Retail: Stephen Vowles, Director on improving our understanding of the customer and of Customer Experience and Andrew Harley, Group Human expanding our product offer.
Mobile is a good example of Resources Director.
We now have a strong senior team this and we have recently launched a range of smartphone focused on delivery of a clear vision, supported by an apps: Sports Bet, Kick Off and Blackjack, prioritising experienced and knowledgeable Board.
Weve brought marketing spend in this area to support our ambitions.
inpeople with the right skills to make this a business that E-excellence is about the skills that we require to ensure responds to the customers needs whichever channel they this technology delivers to its utmost potential through choose to interact with us.
better customer relationship management, better search We are now well positioned to tackle the other challenges engine optimisation and an improved ability to recruit and facing the business.
Together these elements make us an e-enabled business What approach are you taking to with the potential to compete much more effectively athome and crucially in the international marketplace meeting these challenges?
where we may need to partner with brands or tender With the structure and people in place Ive set some very forgovernment licences to secure the best opportunities.
clear objectives for the business.
Ive called these our critical success factors and have summarised them as: Executive structure Richard Glynn Chief Executive Stephen Gary McIIraith Andrew Brian Richard Ames Vowles Digital Nick Rust Harley Wallace Consumer Retail Customer International & Group HR Group Finance Operations Experience Strategy Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10 ii Having the best online products.
We are constantly Can you explain your expanding the range of sports events and markets online strategy?
available to customers and regularly introducing new and exciting casino games.
In 2011 we plan to have circa Ladbrokes has seen strong growth in the online gambling 27,000 Bet In Play events available and will continue to sector over the past ten years to the point where Digital innovate to ensure Ladbrokes customers have access 1 2 nowaccounts for over 30% of Group operating profit.
to the best betting and gaming products available in However during this period we have also seen the emergence the market.
of many new competitors in the online space and therefore need to invest and further develop in order to become more iii Customer closeness.
I want Ladbrokes to have a competitive.
Our online strategy is focused as follows: better understanding of its customers than any of our competitors.
In this way we can deliver products better i Reinforcing our reputation as a leader in sports tailored to their needs and an improved customer betting.
Whilst many of our customers enjoy playing our experience.
Ladbrokes is a trusted brand, which is world-class Casino, Poker, Bingo and Games, many of especially important to online customers.
We will build them came to us first to bet on their favourite sport.
Our on this strength and give customers more reasons to heritage and expertise in sports betting gives us a head choose Ladbrokes in the future.
start against newer market entrants but we have to continue to innovate, in areas such as Bet In Play and iv Developing our online marketing capabilities.
mobile sports betting, to stay ahead.
The online world has become increasingly competitive and the skills needed to attract and retain customers more sophisticated.
In the last year we have invested significantly in increasing our online marketing capabilities and expect this to improve our profitability going forward.
Establishing a strong digital capability Digital now represents over 30% of Group 1 2 operating profit.
We will make further investment over the next two years to develop a market leading offer and enable further growth 1 Continuing operations excluding High Rollers 2 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Business review Chief Roll out of the Executives review new Global Draw continued machines will be completed during the first half of 2011 After a detailed trial and evaluation process of all national operators Ladbrokes agreed a four year You seem to have fallen behind contract with Global Draw for the supply of new some ofyour competitors in UK gaming machines to our UK Retail estate.
Global Draw is the market leader in this eld, supplying Retail.
What steps are you taking and operating over 18,000 server based gaming machines in over 4,000 venues worldwide.
of the new machines began in January and will be The financial performance of the UK Retail business is completed during the first half of 2011. measured by looking at the level of OTC revenue, machine The new Vision cabinet, which will be exclusive revenue and operating costs.
Whilst our level of OTC gross to Ladbrokes, is an evolution of the successful win per shop is competitive, we see clear opportunities to Nevada dual screen terminal, with additional functionality derived from the brand new increase our gross win percentage.
Indeed we are already Videobet platform.
Specic features include new taking steps to improve our pricing, trading and liability promotional and marketing tools to enhance management, all of which will help to do this.
tournament mode and allow specically targeted We also recognise that our existing machine performance has campaigns focused on individual games managed centrally or locally.
The platform is fully integrated fallen behind in the market but we have well defined plans to with Ladbrokes BS2000 EPOS, and loyalty address this.
As I have already mentioned, we have changed card systems.
our machines supplier and we will complete a rollout of the The agreement allows us to offer customers the brand new Vision cabinet during the first half of 2011.
In best of both worlds with the ability to play the preparation for this we have appointed a specific management most popular games from the established team whose sole focus is on improving operational Barcrest terminals and slots games, as well as performance and the training of staff ahead of and during the new Global Draw products, including market therollout process.
We have very clear performance targets in leading 20p Roulette, Blackjack, and a range of this area and aim to align our machine profitability to that of our popular slots games created by Reeltime, Games Media and third party providers.
closest competitors over the next two years.
The evidence is already pointing to good rates of growth in 2011.
We will have access to an extensive range of new games throughout the duration of the agreement The control of costs in Retail has been a key focus and from a variety of games designers, with new B2 there have been tremendous strides in this area over the B3 Category C products and a mix of exclusive past 18 months.
Whilst we expect our costs to increase content being introduced every year.
dueto a change in VAT and our machines arrangement, Ladbrokes is confident that the combination of a wecontinue to prioritise cost control particularly within new Global Draw cabinet, a wide range of proven successful content displayed on a menu and thecontext of existing economic uncertainty in the UK layout already familiar to existing Ladbrokes andhave implemented a pay freeze throughout the machine players is a winning one.
business forthe second consecutive year.
Retail will also benefit from our increased customer focus and from the brand work that we will be conducting during 2011.
In addition the focus upon improving our technology capabilities particularly our trading, pricing and liability management expertise will support our objective of maximising revenues and minimising costs in the Retail business.
Finally as I have already mentioned weve appointed Nick Rust, as Retail Managing Director.
Nick brings with him a strong track record of performance as Managing Director of Coral Retail.
Building upon our retail strength In a fast-changing market place the strength of retail provides not only a stable source of regulated revenue with growth potential but also delivers brand benets across all channels Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 How are you looking to use technology to enable the strategy?
The development of our technology is critical to our ambition to become a truly e-enabled business.
It can enable us to become better at what we do in so many different ways.
It will underpin best in class pricing, trading and liability management and this gives us the tools we need to manage risk, improve trading margin and differentiate our consumer offer.
In 2011, we will continue to develop our pricing, trading and 1 liability management platform, building on the progress we made in 2010.
We will also implement a new eCommerce platform that has all of the features you would expect from Ladbrokes has consistently sought to promote the a leading e-enabled business.
This includes improved site mobile channel as a key part of its online strategy, and search capabilities, a single customer wallet for all products has been rewarded with strong customer growth.
and our own front end platform that lets us seamlessly and 1 Future Mobile Awards easily integrate the best Sportsbook and gaming products 2 Sports Bet available in the market.
The eCommerce project will take 3 Blackjack approximately 18 months to complete, but we have already 4 Kick Off begun and the improvements to our platform will start to come through in 2011.
Technological development will 234 alsoenable better use of data and content and improved business intelligence which will enhance our strong brand and customer base.
Strength in these areas will enable us to deliver improved customer satisfaction and will increase our competitive edge in what is a rapidly evolving marketplace.
How important do you think mobile betting will be in future?
We see mobile as an important part of providing a complete customer offer in a rapidly evolving marketplace.
We have invested accordingly in 2010 and the launch of our new and exciting Sports Bet, Blackjack and Kick Off smartphone apps ensures that we are well placed to simplify and improve the betting experience of existing customers as well as reaching out to new ones.
Indeed our innovation in this area was recently recognised with us winning the Mobile Gambling Award for Mobile 1 Entertainment at the recent Future Mobile Awards.
We see mobile as a strong growth opportunity and it will be supported by new marketing campaigns in 2011.
Focusing on brand and consumer The Ladbrokes name is widely trusted and leads the market in terms of unprompted awareness.
We must build upon this to restore the edge to our brand, widen our appeal and build customer lifetime value Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Business review Chief What are your plans to grow Executives outside the UK?
review continued We believe that regulated markets offer the best opportunity for Ladbrokes to expand our business and create value for shareholders.
We are in favour of appropriate regulation that benefits consumers by ensuring operators are regulated whilst generating necessary tax revenue for governments and creating an incentive for operators like ourselves to compete on a level playing field generating a fair return on our investment.
We already have market leading retail operations in Belgium, Ireland and Spain and in 2011 we will begin to operate online in South Africa through a business venture based on a regulated licence awarded in 2010.
In 2010 we saw preparatory action in many countries, particularly within Europe, for legislation to regulate online gambling.
We are watching those markets closely and, where appropriate regulation is adopted, we will look at the potential for Ladbrokes to enter and compete successfully on a market by market basis.
Maintaining regulatory leadership In an environment of regulatory change continuing to play a lead role in working alongside trade bodies, industry representatives and governments will help minimise the exposure of the business and our industry to future tax increases Develop our pricing, trading and liability management Pricing, trading and liability management lie at the heart of a betting company.
They are fundamental to further enhancing our reputation as a leader in sports betting which is where our heritage lies and which is often the point of entry for customers new to Ladbrokes Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 14 How active do you intend to be in What has been achieved so far?
It has been a year of significant change.
We have delivered a the area of regulation and what strong performance, particularly in the latter half of this year as are your priorities?
well as preparing the foundations for the significant changes We have always played and will continue to play a lead which are still to come.
We are focused on what we are trying to achieve and have a clearly defined set of priorities that will role in this area working closely with trade bodies and industry representatives.
It will no doubt be challenging: we operate in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
We have We have a major task in terms of communicating what however clearly identified what needs to be done, have put in this industry does in terms of social responsibility and the place the right structure to do it and will continue to work importance of sensible regulation for customers, business tirelessly in order to continue delivering against our objectives.
Our key priority in the UK is to limit the exposure of the business and industry to future tax What do you hope customers will increases and ensure that changes in the way the business is taxed remain commercially equitable.
We are actively be saying about Ladbrokes in engaged with both the Government and the Opposition two years time?
on the Levy debate as regards the current scheme and also in terms of a future commercial partnership to I want them to see a major difference.
I want them to see us replace it.
Outside of the UK differing cultural and social as having the most complete and consistent offer no matter attitudes towards gambling, particularly within Europe is how they choose to bet with us and I want them to be proud reflected in a lack of a uniform approach to regulation.
to recommend us to their friends.
I want them to make Accordingly we will assess opportunities to expand Ladbrokes favourite.
internationally on a case by case basis.
How do you plan to build upon Ladbrokes brand heritage?
This will be a major focus for Stephen Vowles as Director of Customer Experience.
The Ladbrokes brand leads the market in terms of unprompted awareness in the UK.
This is a strength, but, in isolation, is not enough.
In todays highly competitive environment online brands have made a great deal of progress at our expense and we have not been fast enough to respond.
By ending our siloed approach to products we are now able to develop a truly integrated approach to marketing and dramatically improve our communications and customer retention.
In 2011 we will start to evolve the positioning of the Ladbrokes brand based upon the continuing customers learnings driven by our OddsOn!
This unique insight into how, where and when our customers engage with us will enable the development of an industry leading approach to the personalisation of product.
Delivering technological excellence The development or acquisition of technological strength lies at the heart of our strategy and provides the foundation on which the evolution of the business is built Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Business review
