Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 08 chief executive officers statement strong commercial foundations this rigorous control remains central to our activities.
We also continue to focus on delivering best in class execution of projects, on time and on budget.
This has long been our operating benchmark, and yet again in 2010 we saw the benefits of this delivery-led strategy as repeat business contributed significantly to revenues.
We believe that this close attention to providing our customers with exactly what they require is fundamental in ensuring the long term growth of our business.
Throughout 2010 the Company continued to place great emphasis on the development and application of practices designed to provide a workplace that is both safe and which minimises environmental Nigel McCue Chief Executive Officer impact.
In 2011 the Company remains focused on these key 2010 proved to be a very positive totalling USD 504 million, resulting aspects of the operation of year for the Company as we saw in a net profit for the period of its business.
significant improvement in many of USD 66.6 million USD 65.2 million Significant project milestones our operating markets after the after exceptional charges, during the year included the turbulent period experienced reinforcing the strong commercial Company delivering its first new during the economic crisis.
foundations of the business and build tender assist drilling barge, the benefits of our tight BassDrill Alpha, in January 2010 as Strengthening oil prices have management of operational and well as resolving the outstanding contributed to unprecedented levels capital expenditure over the last payment issue relating to the of enquiries and bid activity.
The Company received a positive development was the cash payment of USD 55 million unforeseen turnaround in the new The prevailing economic climate, and 28,000,000 shares in BassDrill, build jackup market in the second whilst still uncertain in a number of representing 20% of BassDrills half of the year.
This was in part ways, has provided a more stable equity.
The Company has recently triggered by a post Macondo effect backdrop in recent months, and exercised its put option in respect but moreover by a continuing drive the strengthening oil price has of these shares, receiving for more modern, cost effective and encouraged more operator activity, USD 2.6 million as consideration efficient drilling units designed to improving sentiment throughout for its shareholding.
meet the ever increasing technical the industrys supply chain.
demands of the drilling industry.
In April 2010 we were very pleased Our long-standing strategy of to deliver our second new build Given the continuing emergence maintaining a strong balance sheet LeTourneau Super 116E jackup from the global financial crisis the has continued to underpin our drilling rig, the Offshore Mischief, to results for the year were very disciplined fiscal approach even as Scorpion Rigs LTD. Other notable pleasing with revenues for the year markets became more active, and company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 09 Our long-standing strategy of maintaining a strong strong commercial foundations balance sheet has continued to underpin our projects executed during the year included the fabrication of the disciplined fiscal approach Livorno FPSO process modules for even as markets became Saipem S. p. A. with the final module being delivered in September 2010 more active, and this together with the construction of rigorous control remains two offshore well-head platforms for a leading oil and gas operator in central to our activities.
India, which were completed and delivered in Q1 2011.
2010 was our most successful year in terms of new orders amounting to USD 1.2 billion, with our order book standing at USD 850 million at the end of the period.
Particularly pleasing were a number of new build construction contracts for both self-propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessels and jackup drilling rigs.
In February, the Company announced that it had received two significant new contract awards from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS Windcarrier, which in aggregate totalled USD 320.4 million.
The Engineering, Procurement & Construction EPC contract awards from Windcarrier were for the design, construction and delivery of two Gusto MSC NG- 9000 design self elevating and self-propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessels.
Both vessels will be constructed at Lamprells Jebel Ali facility and will be delivered in Q2 and Q3 of 2012.
In addition to these contracts for two units, Lamprell and Windcarrier executed an option agreement for two further vessels, the first of which has now lapsed, whereas the second may be exercised up until August 2011.
For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 10 chief executive officers statement We believe that our early entry further jackup rigs, valued at the construction and commissioning into this new and promising USD 158.5 million per rig, exercisable in a shipyard, which is yet to be construction market, with the during the 12 month period determined, in the Caspian Sea.
The Company now regarded as one of commencing on 1 August 2010. project is planned to be completed the leading providers of liftboats for 24 months from the commencement offshore wind turbine installation, The NDC contract award facilitated of construction.
positions the Company well as the the resolution of the Riginvest offshore wind sector matures in the contract issue.
Lamprell and February 2011 saw the award of a medium and longer term.
Riginvest agreed that the contract further contract for the construction for the construction of a of a LeTourneau Super 116 E This early positioning and the LeTourneau Super 116E jackup Enhanced Class design rig for a revenue benefits of repeat business drilling rig terminated upon new client, Greatship Global were reinforced by the receipt in July signature of the contract between Energy Services Pte.
Ltd. based in of a USD 129.0 million new contract NDC and Lamprell.
The unit is scheduled award from Seajacks 3 LTD for the was being built for Riginvest would for delivery in Q4 2012. design, construction and delivery now be built for NDC.
Riginvest of a Gusto MSC NG-5500 design received a portion of the contract Having phased the expenditure on self-elevating and self-propelled advance it initially paid to Lamprell the expansion of our facility in the offshore wind turbine installation as part of the termination Hamriyah Free Zone to reflect the vessel.
The vessel, named Seajacks agreement.
From an accounting prevailing economic conditions, we Zaratan, will be constructed at perspective, pursuant to are now seeing the benefits of the Lamprells Hamriyah facility and is International Financial Reporting increased capacity.
The significantly due to be delivered in 2012.
Standards, the cancellation of the enlarged quayside has enabled us Riginvest contract created a to work on as many as 11 rigs at It was also pleasing to see more material one-off accounting gain in one time, thereby increasing the positive signs of a strengthening of the Companys financial statements potential of both our rig the new build jackup rig market with for 2010, totalling USD 20.4 million, refurbishment and new build the Company receiving a USD 317 reflecting the gain net of additional construction businesses.
million contract award from National provisions arising as a result of the Drilling Company NDC, Abu contract cancellation.
Due to the increasing level of Dhabi in July.
This contract with NDC fabrication activity the Company is is for the construction and delivery of A further positive development for in advanced negotiation to acquire 2 two jackup rigs valued at USD 158.5 our EPC business saw the award in an additional 40,000m of land million each.
The rigs will be November of a USD 210 million immediately adjacent to our completely outfitted and equipped, contract from Eurasia Drilling existing yard bringing the total LeTourneau designed, self-elevating Company Limited for the area within the Hamriyah Free Zone 2 Mobile Offshore Drilling Platforms of construction and delivery of a to 335,000m.
a Super 116E Enhanced Class completely outfitted and equipped, design.
Work on the first rig LeTourneau designed, self-elevating In rig refurbishment we have commenced in August with delivery Mobile Offshore Drilling Platform of a worked on a total of 43 jackup rigs scheduled for the middle of Q2 2012.
Super 116E Enhanced Class in 2010 and these projects have design.
Lamprell will fabricate the included work scopes covering the As part of the contract, NDC has jackup rig in modular form in its new full range of our upgrade and options for Lamprell to build two yard in Hamriyah and then complete refurbishment services.
Projects company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 11 have been shared between our Officer, informed the Board that he leadership position in this part of UAE facilities, with Sharjah working wishes to leave the Company by our business.
on 21 rigs and the Hamriyah facility the end of 2011 to pursue other working on 22 jackups.
Scott will, by then, have The Company is actively pursuing a previously guided, the jackup rig spent almost five years with the number of exciting prospects for its upgrade and refurbishment activity Company and played a significant oilfield engineering business in 2010 was at a lower level of part in taking the Company on to including new build land rigs, average expenditure than in the The London Stock Exchange AIM refurbishment projects and prior year.
It remains challenging to market, on to the Main List and equipment overhaul and is anticipate activity in this segment through one of the most difficult confident that new business for this given the relatively short cycle periods the industry has ever segment can be secured in the between bidding and the award of faced.
We would like to thank Scott coming months.
There are, however, for his hard work and encouraging signs of renewed professionalism undertaken during Dividend activity in this market, with the this very demanding period in the The Board of Directors is Company well placed to receive Company's history.
The Company recommending a final dividend further awards in the near future.
is currently seeking a successor to payment of 9.50 cents per ordinary Scott.
Scott will facilitate the share.
This will be payable, when Throughout 2010 we continued to handover to the new person when approved, on 17 June 2011 to construct FPSO process modules he or she has been appointed.
eligible shareholders on the register for Saipem S. p. A and Saipem at 13 May 2011.
Energy Services S. p. A at our market overview Jebel Ali facility and believe that The Company has a record bid outlook this segment of our business will pipeline at this time.
In particular Building upon the success of 2010, benefit from the strengthening oil we have seen an increase in 2011 has started encouragingly.
activity levels in the new build We maintain our focus on existing jackup market, reflecting the core business, together with Towards the end of 2010 the current buoyancy of that market complementary markets.
The Company established a core segment.
While the full impact of Company is confident in its Strategic Development Group the deepwater Macondo oil spill in prospects for future growth and comprising industry specialists the US Gulf of Mexico on the wider success, both for the current year who are currently working on a rig market has yet to fully unwind, and in the longer term, based upon number of bespoke engineering many sector analysts are predicting both its record order book position, solutions for the upstream a continuation in the new build and the strengthening which it sees petroleum sector.
programmes as the market for in its key markets.
higher specification rigs remains We continue to review all our strong.
As the search for oil and I would again like to take this operations to ensure they are gas becomes increasingly more opportunity to express my creating value for our shareholders.
technically demanding rigs that can personal thanks, together with After a review by management, the drill deeper, horizontal wells more those of the Board of Directors, to Board has now agreed to terminate cost effectively in deeper, harsh all of our management, staff and the Groups operation in Thailand environment, waters will demand employees for their hard work and with effect from 31 December higher day-rates and hence will dedication which they have given 2010.
The total cost of closing the help drive the new build rig throughout the year.
With over facility was not material.
5,000 employees it is indeed a credit and achievement that the board As previously reported, we everyone has played their part in In March 2010 Chris Hand was experienced a slowdown in the the success of the Company.
On a appointed as Chief Operating rig refurbishment market in the final note I would like to thank our Officer, and joined the Board in second half of 2010, however founder and President, Steven January 2011.
Chris brings to the there are now encouraging signs Lamprell, for his continuing Board 15 years of experience with of renewed activity in this market.
Lamprell and I am certain he will We continue to see significant make a very valuable contribution potential for Lamprell in the liftboat in the coming years.
In December, market in the medium and longer Nigel Robert McCue Scott Doak, our Chief Financial term and aim to build on our early Chief Executive Officer For more information visit: www.
