Business review A view from the CEO Dear shareholder, 2010 marked a significant step-change for Logica.
We developed a clear position for ourselves as a scale business and technology service company with strong European cultural roots and a well balanced footprint.
Because clients told us they dont Signi cant numbers of our European our client satisfaction survey in 2010 want IT Services they want a joined-up clients saw the advantages of our blended than ever before and the results service delivering real long-term business delivery model for the first time this year.
They said they like working with Our Outsourcing Services business Our people are committed to creating Logica, because we listen and we continued to be the growth engine of long-term value for our clients, by understand their business, their culture our success, with revenue up 10%.
The successfully using technology to meet and their environment.
Clients frequently decline in our Consulting and Professional their business challenges.
In return, we tell me how well our people work as teams Services business slowed, with a decline are committed to investing in our people with each other, with their people and of 3% in the last quarter of 2010. and enabling them to shape the future, within their ecosystems.
Our long-term Our focus on security, sustainability for our clients and themselves.
We grew relationships help us grow our business, and Cloud and Future IT propositions resources in o shore and many onshore drive revenue and increase margins.
resonated with clients globally and locations, recruited more graduates and But clients challenged us to deliver more continue to do so as we move into 2011. provided our people with global learning thought leadership and to shake up the Our world class security credentials were opportunities via our Logica University.
This was behind our at the heart of our 157 million, 10-year People satisfaction was down slightly on repositioning of the Logica brand.
win with the Serious and Organised Crime last year in challenging market conditions.
We performed well in 2010, building Agency in early 2011.
We continued to We are working to inspire and motivate on the foundation of our 2008 plan.
Our progress our own sustainability agenda, our people more and ensure we take guidance at the beginning of the year receiving an A rating from the Global them with us as the market returns on revenue and adjusted margin proved Reporting Initiative.
Some markets remained becoming an increasingly important issue As we move through 2011, we expect challenging but we grew slightly and for many of our clients.
Getting our own European economies to continue to we grew faster than the market.
Revenue house in order helps strengthen our ability recover, albeit at di erent speeds.
Our was up 1% on a pro forma basis at to give our clients the best advice and balanced footprint and broad portfolio 3.7 billion.
And at 7.4%, we achieved the support they need to achieve their should help us grow our revenue and highest adjusted operating margin of any sustainability ambitions.
We invested in improve our operating margin.
major European player at the bottom of Cloud and Future IT services, developing I would like to thank our clients, our this economic cycle.
Our average pipeline our partnership with Microsoft and other people and our ecosystem partners for was up 20% on 2009, positioning us well key technology partners.
their commitment to Logica in 2010. into 2011.
Throughout the economic downturn, Our return to growth in the second we continued to listen to clients and half of 2010 was primarily due to success invest in responding to their challenges.
with clients in the Financial Services We created the Chief Client O cer role, and Transport, Trade and Industrial TTI charged with ensuring that our marketing sectors.
We helped them respond to and sales activities e ectively engage changes in their markets and regulation.
We created a global Business Andy Green Many public sector clients faced the Consulting service line to deliver top-level Chief Executive O cer need to reduce costs.
We were able to advice on how technology can transform help with their challenges and develop business and provide thought leadership strong business for Logica going forward.
More clients took part in For fide nition of pro forma and adjusted measures, see page 41.
