Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information THESE RESULTS COULD NOT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED WITHOUT A MANAGEMENT TEAM AND AN EMERGING CULTURE IN WHICH MATTERS ARE IDENTIFIED AND DEALT WITH IN A TIMELY, CONSTRUCTIVE AND PROFESSIONAL MANNER.
Ian Farmer Chief Executive Officer CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW management team, and an emerging culture, in Dear Shareholder, which matters are identified and dealt with in a timely, 1.
Delivering Today constructive and professional manner and where I am pleased to report that we have produced a very Key Performance Indicators are tracked and encouraging set of results whilst continuing to improve monitored on a regular basis.
These results mark the end of We have reiterated our production target of the two year period we set ourselves in 2008 to 850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana restore the operational health of our business and operations including our share of Pandora joint demonstrate the significant progress we have made venture, with replacement and growth ounces being in that time.
generated from Hossy, Saffy and K4.
We achieved Platinum sales of 706,000 ounces from our Marikana operations, ahead of sales guidance Safety of 700,000 ounces.
The problems we encountered Progress with our LTIFR with the Number One furnace again this year were Safety is fundamental in everything we do and it will disappointing and meant that we had to toll refine and always be at the forefront of our minds.
We have sell some part processed material.
This was the best worked hard at addressing the behavioural and commercial option for the business.
cultural issues which are fundamental to a good safety Encouragingly metal in concentrate was 694,000 performance.
This includes focusing on upgrading our Platinum ounces, well ahead of 663,000 Platinum safe production training programmes and increasing ounces delivered last year, whilst the mines hoisted safe behaviour observations.
We have also improved some 700,000 Platinum ounces as ore stocks were our procedures for compiling safety data.
This improvement came about through an Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR increase in underground tonnes hoisted, better grades improved marginally, from the end of the 2009 and significantly improved recoveries, all of which financial year to 5.87 per million man hours worked, more than offset the impact of closing Limpopo and but sadly we suffered three fatalities, two as a result our UG2 opencast pits in 2009. of fall-of-ground incidents and one from a tramming At the same time, we continued to make incident.
We extend our sincere condolences to significant progress with our development of ore the families and friends of our late colleagues reserves, a crucial indicator of the health of our mining Miss Betty Moekwa, Mr Bavuyise Bala and operations.
Although we operated in an environment with We lost fewer tonnes this year from Section 54 inflationary pressures on key inputs such as wages stoppages as the frequency and length of the stoppages and electricity, our Rand unit costs per PGM ounce decreased and the manner in which they are applied produced only increased by 2%, much lower than became more pragmatic.
This reflects the collaborative South African PPI reflecting productivity improvements.
relationship we have developed with our employees I believe we can now put behind us the notion and the Department of Mineral Resources DMR on that Lonmin is not on top of its operational game.
safety matters, and the emphasis we have been Of course we will still have issues as this is, and will placing on consistent application of high safety always be, a very challenging business.
These results standards in all our operations.
however, could not have been delivered without a www.
com 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Mining While the key focus for the team is delivery on time and budget, the Capital team, under the leadership of Frank Our Mining Divisions performance continued to improve throughout the year, with quarter four being Russo-Bello, are examining ways of reducing capital costs very strong.
The results reflect the divisions and improving project productivity.
Frank is also leading a commendable turnaround.
Mining management team that is looking at further opportunities to optimise throughout the year placed a strong emphasis on our life of mine extraction strategy.
quality of mining and improving mining discipline and Processing it has achieved this by introducing processes, The Process Division produced excellent results during the procedures and training to support these initiatives.
year with significant recovery improvements being recorded.
The success of these programmes is reflected in Of particular note were the much improved recoveries the gradual increase in momentum we have seen at the concentrators which averaged 84.7% throughout throughout the year.
Indeed, whilst production in the the year.
This represents a significant 4.9% points first half of the year was adversely impacted by the improvement over 2009.
The success of our concentrator Christmas holidays and a fatal accident Section 54 optimisation programme, which we mention in the case related stoppage at K3, the second half showed a study on page 40, could only have been achieved through marked increase with underground production the excellent teamwork and commitment of the employees reaching 5.8 million tonnes compared to 5.2 million in this part of our operations led by Natascha Viljoen.
The refineries also performed very well this year, again We have agreed a new working calendar with our reflecting the discipline exercised by the teams at these employees and unions for the forthcoming holiday plants in following strict processes aided by excellent season which should help improve productivity and technical support and plant maintenance programmes.
provide for a good Christmas break for our mining employees.
Number One furnace We have also streamlined the reporting in the In 2010 the Number One furnace was down for almost Mining Division into a four unit structure and removed fourteen weeks due to scheduled maintenance and as excess reporting levels, to enable management to be a result of the double run out experienced in March and as close to the operations as possible.
This necessitated toll refining and selling report the output from these four mines separately in part processed material as the backlog was too big to our Production Report.
The quantum refined by third parties amounted to some 75,000 Platinum ounces and this had Ore reserves an impact on costs as discussed elsewhere.
The Marikana operations have immediately available The Number One furnace was taken down again ore reserves of 2.7 million centares as at the end of at the end of October 2010 for a scheduled rebuild.
This is a 32% increase from is running to plan and we expect it to be re-commissioned the 2.0 million centares that were available at the end in December 2010.
Whilst the Number One furnace is of 2009 and it allows us to support future production down, the three pyromet furnaces will operate as usual and forecast our short term output with greater and we will continue to toll refine a limited amount of confidence.
metal-in-concentrate until the furnace is fully operational If there is one statistic which for me best illustrates again.
We recognise and share the concerns of our the scale of the turnaround that has been achieved in investors about the reliability of this vessel, but I believe the last two years its the fact that available ore we have a team who understand the issues very well.
reserves are over 61% higher than they were at the We continue to make modifications to the furnace end of 2008. designed to reduce disruption risk and this gives us confidence, tempered with realism, for the future.
Progress made with Hossy Hossys production profile and grade has improved The decision was taken to add more back up capacity during the year and we have decided to continue with and work has commenced on building the new 10MW the fully mechanised proof of concept project.
The pyromet furnace which is planned to come into production average monthly production has ramped up to 67,000 in quarter three 2012 at a capital cost of some R350 million.
tonnes per month in 2010, a significant increase from Whilst any disruption to the Number One furnace is 2009 when it averaged 56,000, whilst the grade has always disappointing, the value impact of such an event is improved from 4.38 to 4.60 grammes per tonne.
not material to the long term value of Lonmin.
As a result, Two new mining half levels, defined as quadrants in a we do not intend to announce any future furnace mechanised shaft, came on stream in the first half of incidents unless they impact our market guidance.
this year bringing the total number of quadrants being Tailings projects mined to six.
Earlier in the year, we entered into arrangements with The key drivers to Hossys improvements have Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture and ChromTech to been enhancements to the mining layout and construct chrome recovery plants which will treat tailings infrastructure and equipment upgrades.
We have also from our UG2 concentrators.
This initiative will generate kept up our development and training initiatives in additional revenue of some $20-30 million per annum with core areas.
This is important as there is a general effect from 2012, dependant on the chrome price.
The shortage of people with mechanised experience in impact on 2011 will be approximately $10 million.
In the industry and this will remain a key area of focus.
addition, we have commenced an investment programme We retain our target of achieving productivity of of around some $75 million to build tailings treatment 2,200 square metres per month per suite of plants which when fully operational will improve our UG2 equipment by the end of 2011 financial year in fully concentrator recoveries by some 2% from 2012 onwards, developed quadrants.
equivalent when fully commissioned to approximately Mining capital projects 25,000 PGM ounces annually.
We have continued to make good progress with People focus the capital development at Hossy, Saffy, K4, and Motivating and developing our people is a key contributor the declines at K3 and Rowland shafts, all of which to achieving consistent production.
We continued to are essential to our medium term production.
introduce a number of employee relations initiatives designed to promote a safe performance driven culture.
08 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc These are supported by regular and improved 2 Industry wide challenges and successes There are a number of challenges faced by the South communication between management and employees.
We have also rolled out a programme to standardise and African mining industry, some of which received align the production reward system across all our significant publicity during the year.
The Revised Mining Charter BEE partnership restructured It was pleasing to note that a collaborative approach We are delighted to have played our part in helping was adopted with the review of the Mining Charter secure the future of Incwala, our BEE partner.
It is which was released in early September 2010.
Lonmin, important that we have a strong BEE partner, and we along with other participants in the mining industry, welcome Shanduka as Incwalas majority shareholder.
was involved through the South African Chamber of Mines.
The Revised Mining Charter has brought clarity The terms of the funding provided to Shanduka, to help facilitate this transaction, provide for Lonmin to in some areas and has re-oriented 2014 goals to take receive a fair commercial return.
In addition, in the into account the experience of the last five years.
event that there is significant future value created for Concern has however been expressed by industry Shanduka through its Incwala shareholding, the terms participants and international investors regarding the of the funding provide that a proportion of such degree of subjectivity that still remains, as well as the incremental value uplift will be shared with Lonmin.
powers granted to the Minister of Mineral Resources This was not available to Lonmin under the original to unilaterally amend the Charter.
In this context, Incwala transaction in 2004. concern has been expressed that companies security Shanduka has representation on our Executive of tenure over their operations may be unfairly compromised.
Committee which meets every month to consider operational and strategic issues, and Cyril Ramaphosa We cannot understate the challenge the industry has joined the Lonmin Board.
This partnership will generally, and certainly Lonmin, faces in achieving enable us to work closely together as we explore new some of the 2014 goals within the timeframe initiatives and execute our transformational objectives.
Whilst investors have factored in the We raised 160 million of fresh capital to part fund imperative for transformation there is a cost in the loan to Shanduka and I would like to thank our terms of time, effort and money associated with shareholders for their support.
implementing social transformation which is not easily quantifiable but nonetheless exists.
As South Africa Social and Labour Plans positions itself to become globally competitive, and Our communities and our employees are very important an attractive destination for inward investment, these stakeholders.
This year we have spent R35 million are issues which cannot be ignored especially if the on community projects and R15 million on converting industry is to contribute to South Africas well being five hostel blocks into married and single room to the full extent of its potential.
There is still much During 2011 we will be reviewing our Social and more work to be done in both these areas and we have Labour Plans in the light of the revised Mining Charter budgeted to invest some R42 million in 2011 on and we will report annually on progress against these community projects and R100 million per annum for the plans.
next three years on our hostel conversion programme.
The education and training of our employees is Associated Minerals another key area and we continue to have employees In May 2009 we discovered that we had an issue enrolling in the Adult Based Education Training ABET regarding our right to dispose of associated minerals adult learning scheme.
Our total training budget for i. e. non PGM metals which are found in our ore body and which must be mined and processed together 2011 amounts to some R208 million, which includes the provision of bursaries to some 43 full time university with the PGMs when Keysha Investments 220 students of which 37 are Historically Disadvantaged Proprietary Limited Keysha applied for a prospecting South Africans HDSAs and 21 are female.
right over a small part of our property.
In our view it is Our management payroll now includes 43% illogical and wrong that a prospecting right can be HDSAs and these are all merit based appointments.
granted over an ore body where mining is already taking place, and where that company has in good Sustainability faith converted its old order rights into new order Transformation is an essential area of business mining rights.
The spirit and intention of the in South Africa today and we are making steady conversion process was intended to leave title holders progress.
More of the work that we have done in in the same position after conversion as before.
this area is covered on pages 36 to 54 of this report After taking comprehensive legal advice we and is also reported on in detail in our Sustainable appealed against both the application for and the Development Report on our website.
subsequent award of the prospecting right.
We also filed section 102 applications to regularise the position Seamless transfer of London operations to in respect of the balance of our property that was Johannesburg unaffected by the Keysha prospecting right.
On 4 August The move of all London based operational and 2010 the DMR issued us with a notice suspending our management roles to South Africa is now largely ability to sell all associated minerals across our business.
The transfer of these operations has run We announced these facts to the market which smoothly under the leadership of Alan Ferguson and generated significant media attention for both Lonmin we go into 2011 with all these functions based in South and the wider South African mining industry.
We will be sad to bid farewell to many of our thereafter the Section 102s were all approved London colleagues who will not be relocating, but we confirming Lonmins right to extract and sell all welcome our new team members.
It is already clear associated minerals.
The issue with regard to the that placing the Executive Directors closer to the Keysha prospecting right remains outstanding.
We operations will generate many benefits some of await the outcome of our appeal and we will take the which have already started to come through.
matter to judicial review if necessary.
com 09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Skills Shortage Rebuilding the Number One furnace and bringing the Skills shortages remain an issue.
The scarcity of new furnace into production on time and on budget are experienced people nationally and globally means that the other major areas of focus.
the industry is always chasing talent and there is an Investing in the future insufficient skills pipeline to address this.
This impacts 2011 mainly on our mining operations, particularly at our Capital expenditure at around $380 million is above our mechanised Hossy shaft.
We have developed a new previous guidance due to the inclusion of the new furnace training strategy for the business whereby we will as well as the tailings treatment initiatives.
We will, however, refocus our training budget on better value adding continue to monitor affordability and development capital initiatives that will help to address these challenges.
The majority of our capital spend Inflationary Pressures and Rand Strength will be predominantly Rand based and will therefore be While South Africa has reported declining consumer impacted by exchange rate movements.
price inflation during 2010, down to levels of around 2011 and beyond 3.5%, the mining sector has experienced significant We will start to focus on how we wish to achieve 26% inflationary pressures, driven by the high cost of inputs BEE ownership in our operations by 2014.
Currently we such as labour up c. 8-10% and power up c. 26%.
have 18% BEE ownership for Marikana and Limpopo and As well as impacting on working cost, this also 26% for Akanani.
We see a broad based structure as impacts on capital investment.
optimal, but we will be reviewing our options and ensuring These pressures allied to the strength of the Rand we protect our shareholders interests.
has meant that margins and the resulting free cash Whilst Limpopo remains on care and maintenance, flow have been held back.
This means as a business we are exploring opportunities available to us to resume we have to strive to deliver more output from the operations as well as working with other parties to examine same input and this will be a major area of focus what possibilities we have to develop this asset further.
4 Outlook 3 Anticipating tomorrow: the key areas of focus Guidance Safety Our operations have turned a corner and 2011 will be the We will maintain our focus on safety particularly around next important step towards achieving our sales target of training and employee behaviour as we continue our 850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013.
We expect to continue journey to zero harm.
to gain momentum whilst maintaining the quality of our Productivity production.
We anticipate sales of 750,000 Platinum We have worked hard to restore the health of our ounces in 2011 with additional production coming from Marikana operations in the past two years and we will Hossy, Saffy, K3 and opencast whilst output from our continue to monitor vigilantly the key operational Newman shaft is starting to decline.
Our focus on available ore Despite the significant inflationary pressures our reserve development will remain undiminished.
operations will face, we expect to maintain cost control by Our challenge for next year is however subtly driving productivity and limiting the increase in cost per different from that faced in 2009 and 2010.
Given this we anticipate that unit cost will increase have been effective in 2010, we are not producing as by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a efficiently as we can and 2011 will be a year when we settlement with the National Union of Mineworkers NUM will seek to drive productivity in our operations.
This is in line with that achieved by our two larger competitors.
vitally important given the inflationary pressures we will As already reported, our capex guidance is face as we go into 2011 and our objective of moving c. $380 million.
Most of the mining capital spend will back down the relative cost curve.
Our key focus will be on bringing K4 into production, finalising the capital thereforebeon driving productivity.
footprints in Hossy and Saffy and extending the mine We will look at a number of areas: lives of K3 and Rowland.
Day to day productivity Beyond 2013 We are turning our attention to areas where we can We also have to start turning our minds to our other improve our daily productivity.
This is the one area assets and profitable growth, as a business, beyond where we can see immediate flow through to our 850,000 Platinum ounces.
Our initial focus for growth production.
We have also suffered historically from beyond 2013 will be on the assets we already have in our portfolio such as Akanani, Limpopo and Pandora and of a shortage of developed ore reserves, but we are now well positioned.
We will focus on mining our course Marikana.
We will provide direction on the shafts efficiently, considering optimisation of half levels outcome of our review of these assets and any other as well as improving metrics such as advance per potential options we may identify as appropriate.
Importantly, we will build on the momentum 5 Employees contribution we have achieved in 2010 and the partnership we Our business relies on the dedication and support of our have built with our employees to support us in this employees, contractors and community members.
This will be done through a range of year when we have completed the restoration of our measures including appropriate bonus arrangements operations back to good health I would like to thank and a new working calendar.
each and every one of them, for their contribution and Structural issues hard work.
There are some areas which are more difficult to change immediately as they are structural in nature.
These include declining production from our small older shafts as they approach the end of their working lives, the pace at which Hossy and Saffy will move towards full capacity and the timing of K4 coming on Ian Farmer stream.
Initially of course the new ounces from K4 will Chief Executive Officer be relatively expensive but the cost per ounce will decrease as production ramps up.
12 November 2010 10 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information OUR TEAM HAS BEEN ACHIEVING ITS PRODUCTION TARGETS WORKING IN A SAFE AND EFFICIENT MANNER.
ITHUMULENG PHOSOKO SHIFT SUPERVISOR, SHAFT 1B UG2 1B Shaft is one of the shafts we have in Marikana which has access to both the Merensky and UG2 reefs.
Two years ago we took the decision to change the mining method at this shaft from fully mechanised to hybrid mining with the ultimate intention of converting the whole shaft to conventional mining.
Ithumuleng is one of our Shift Supervisors in the 1B UG2 section of the mine, where the development and stoping are currently both mechanised.
From a young age, Ithumuleng was interested in geological features and their composition and decided to pursue a career in mining.
She has a BSC in Mining from the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
While completing her studies, she joined Lonmin as a graduate trainee.
She has since satisfied the requirements for both her blasting and shift supervisor certificates.
She has worked in both the stoping and development aspects of mining.
Ithumuleng has a team of 30 people who work with her.
Her mine shifts mined 189,000 tonnes of ore exceeding its budget by 2.8% for the year to 30 September 2010.
She believes that good two way communication with her team is important and leads to greater team cohesiveness and ultimately safe and efficient production.
