MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 4 Chief Executives review Group strategy S ecuring positions on new platforms In my first Annual Report and Accounts since becoming Meggitts Chief Executive, Our leading-edge capabilities, intellectual I am delighted to reaffirm my property and longstanding track record of commitment to the strategy I was integral delivering reliable products, enable us in developing since joining the Group as to secure strong positions on new Finance Director in 2004. programmes, including the recently announced wheels and brakes contract Meggitts strategy comprises four on the Dassault 5X long-range business elements.
Because our products span multiple Delivering innovation platforms across civil aerospace, military and energy markets, we are not We focus on highly-engineered dependent on single programmes, We have emerged from an components and sub-systems capable customers, regions or segments.
of withstanding increasingly harsh intensive bid cycle resulting environments, such as in the nextWe target specialist applications within in technology sales into a generation aero-engines.
Our products these markets, generating revenue from significant number of new must operate in extremes of pressure, original equipment and maintenance, temperature, impact, vibration and overhaul, spares and repair services for aircraft programmes, many contamination in applications where the life of programmes, which can last involve a full suite of Meggitt certification requirements are for decades.
Our customers technology roadmaps shipset content of their We invest in manufacturing technologies guide our investments.
This is such as automation and additive underpinned by rigorous product predecessors.
This is a very manufacturing, targeting product development, programme management, strong indicator of future technology investment in areas where we increased manufacturing capacity and revenue growth.
see the greatest growth potential.
Our regional support for original equipment power business, for example, continues to manufacturers and their operators.
provide more electric solutions for our We have longstanding relationships with customers and we are embedding this major customers.
Whether creating a capability increasingly across a broad critical component or sub-system for an range of Meggitt products.
aircraft engine or a heat exchanger for a At the same time, we seek to leverage floating offshore gas storage and shipset content by combining the Groups processing vessel, we work together at capabilities.
Most recently, we deployed the start of design phases to ensure our sensing systems in tyre pressure demonstrable early-stage solutions.
monitoring for brake control systems and integrated polymers and composites with fluid control technology valves to create Achieving operational complete airborne fuel systems.
excellence We supplement organic growth with Because superior performance on quality, targeted acquisitions, increasing our cost and delivery are the building blocks range of capabilities and improving our of future growth, we are intensifying our market position.
investment in facilities, production systems, programme management and people.
Organic excludes the effect of acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 5 During 2013, we consolidated six factories After the bid cycle Outlook into three larger, more efficient facilities.
We have emerged from an intensive bid The outlook for our civil markets remains We moved a further two businesses to cycle resulting in technology sales into a good, with further growth in aircraft new, expanded sites to meet growth significant number of new aircraft deliveries anticipated in 2014 and beyond.
We also launched the programmes, many involve a full suite of During the latter half of 2013, air traffic Meggitt Production System MPS at 16 of Meggitt capabilities, exceeding the growth accelerated to above the long term our facilities, with a further 16 scheduled shipset content of their predecessors.
trend rate of 5% and we believe that the for 2014 and the remainder during 2015.
This is a very strong indicator of future destocking seen over the last couple of MPSour single, global approach to revenue growth.
We therefore continuous improvementwill create the maintain our view that civil original This accounts for R & D spend in 2013 sustainable delivery and quality culture equipment and aftermarket revenues will which, at 8.2% of revenue, was at a record that confers competitive advantage grow at an average of 7 to 8% and 8 to 9% level as we convert these new contracts beyond our technological expertise.
It respectively, both on an organic basis, over into sustainable revenue streams.
reinforces our commitment to developing the medium term.
Aftermarket revenue our people and doing business the right We are now moving into a major execution will likely grow at less than this rate in way, further strengthening our customer phase, which requires us to deliver new 2014 as the gradual recovery continues.
At the same time, Meggitt programmes on time and to specification We anticipate a modest decline in military will become more cost-competitive.
We and to meet new, tougher requirements in revenue in 2014, reflecting the substantial will reduce working capital.
We will terms of quality, cost and delivery.
The completion of the Bradley fighting vehicle reduce the cost of poor quality and, as necessary improvement in operational and KC135 fuel tank retrofit contracts.
MPS requires close relationships with performance will be supported by MPS Looking further ahead, uncertainty around suppliers who share our management and the recent appointment of a Chief military budgets, notably in the US, standards and continuous improvement Operating Officer.
As such, while we remain philosophy, our supply chain will become confident in delivering an average leaner and more effective.
We have compound organic revenue growth rate of already seen significant operational Performance in 2013 2% in our military markets over the improvements, with on-time delivery up Revenue growth in 2013 was weaker than medium term, this will be subject to by 10% and defective parts per million anticipated a year ago.
This was due, modest reductions if sequestration our key performance indicator for mainly, to currency movements, a slower impacts future budget cycles as initially quality down by 54%.
than expected recovery in civil aftermarket envisaged.
revenue and uncertainties around defence Energy, driven by continued strong spending, particularly in the US.
Supply Providing through-life demand for our printed circuit heat chain and operational issues, while now product support exchangers and new product introductions under control, had an impact on revenues in the condition-monitoring market, should Once selected on a new platform, Meggitt and costs in the second half, offset by good deliver organic revenue growth averaging often becomes the sole source for a given progress made in resolving legacy greater than 10% over the medium term.
component for the life of the programme.
Against this challenging Other markets should continue to see Our equipment typically operates in harsh background, total revenue rose 2% in the modest growth.
environments, generating a regular year organic: 1% with underlying requirement for spares and repairs.
This earnings per share up 3% to 37.5p.
Net On this basis, we expect to make further produces an annuity-like income stream debt decreased further to 564.6m 2012: good progress by delivering mid-single over the life of the programmeoften 642.5m and net debt to EBITDA reduced to digit organic revenue growth in 2014, several decades.
The recommended final weighted towards the second half, and 6 to dividend of 8.80p per share 2012: 8.20p 7% average organic revenue growth in the We continue to invest in our product takes the full year dividend to 12.75p 2012: medium term.
In 2013, we opened our 11.80p, an increase of 8%.
new repair and overhaul centre in Singapore, doubling our capacity and introducing more Meggitt product lines, and launched a major review of the best way to deploy Meggitts growing aftermarket capability to our global customer base.
