Melrose Industries PLC 12 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Divestments during the year Improving the portfolio Revenue Realising value in businesses at the Elster appropriate time and returning all or part Following the sale of Crosby and Acco, of this value to shareholders has been the three Elster businesses represent two 1,732.8m afundamental part of the buy, improve, thirds of the revenue of the continuing sell strategy that Melrose has followed Group.
In the 18 months since their 1, 3 2012 1,791.9m since being founded 10 years ago.
acquisition, the improvement programmes implemented within the Elster businesses 2013 1,732.8m 2013 has been another highly successful are yielding significant results.
year for Melrose as we continue to improve elements of the portfolio and The Gas business has benefited from have implemented the sell phase of strategic and operational initiatives including 2 Headline operating profit ourstrategy.
In the second half of the year, the closure of uneconomic facilities, new wecompleted the disposals of five of our product launches and the rationalisation FKI businesses for a total consideration and relocation of manufacturing operations.
274.9m of approximately 950million, having The Gas business is well positioned to more than tripled the shareholder value benefit from a continued growth in gas 1, 3 2012 228.5m inrespect of these businesses in five usage across the world.
In July 2013, 2013 274.9m Melrose sold Truth Hardware to Tyman Operating profits in the Electricity business PLC for 135million.
In the following have improved significantly as a result of month, we completed the disposal of therelocation, reorganisation and Marelli Motori to an affiliate of The Carlyle consolidation of operational and functional Group, for a total consideration of activities both in North America and Europe.
In November 2013, the New products and technologies have disposal of Crosby and Acco to an affiliate beenlaunched, enhanced quality control of KKR & Co LP, was completed for processes implemented and improvements aconsideration of 633million.
Finally to the supply chain initiated.
Across the inDecember 2013, Melrose disposed of global market, regulatory frameworks are Harris Waste Management Group to Avis being put in place to upgrade the metering Industrial Corporation.
infrastructure from traditional metering to Smart meter solutions, providing significant Return of capital growth opportunities.
Following these divestments, and in accordance with our strategy, we In the Water business, operating profit has announced in January 2014 our intention also improved substantially following the to use part of the proceeds of the completion of a restructuring programme, disposals to return approximately product and business rationalisation and 1 Restated to include the Truth, Marelli, 600million in cash to shareholders new product launches.
Water is well Crosby, Acco and Harris results within andto undertake a share consolidation positioned for growth.
2 Before exceptional costs, exceptional onan11 for 13 basis.
The balance of the income and intangible asset amortisation.
netsale proceeds have been used to 3 Assuming a full years ownership of paydown Melroses existing borrowings.
Elster in 2012, as explained in the Finance Directors review.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 13 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 2013 has been another highly successful Business strategy year for Melrose as we continue to Buy improve elements of the portfolio and Melrose aims to acquire good have implemented the sell phase of manufacturing businesses that are underperforming their potential.
Businesses are targeted that have strong headline fundamentals, such as high quality products, or a leading market share, to generate sustainable cash flows, achieve profit growth and create value for shareholders.
Improve The Melrose Directors are actively involved within each of the businesses, Bridon Brush to agree strategy and targets, drive Turning to the rest of the Group, Bridons Market dynamics for new generators operational improvements, invest in trading results in 2013 were marginally are likely to remain subdued in 2014. the businesses it purchases and down on 2012.
Reductions in operating However, Brush has outperformed the oversee change management.
expenditure in the mining industry turbogenerator market with operational Sell continued to impact demand for mining efficiency gains, a strong return on At the appropriate time, each ropes and this has offset improved trading capital investment and growth in the business will be disposed of, in order conditions in other core sectors such as aftermarket business.
to return value that has been created the oil & gas, commercial construction to shareholders.
The Directors are and industrial markets.
The difficult trading We are investing 30million in a new experienced in being able to recognise circumstances in the mining sector are manufacturing plant in China to meet the the appropriate time in the business expected to continue for at least the first rapid growth in demand for gas turbines cycle for disposal, in order to provide half of 2014. in the region.
funding for acquisitions and return funds to investors.
Bridons strategy is to be a global A key priority for Brush is the growth and technology leader for demanding rope development of the aftermarket business applications.
Bridons new factory in which, during 2013, was consolidated Newcastle, UK, is fully operational and the into a single focused global business Bridon Technology Centre, providing state unit.
This restructuring, together with of the art product design, development capital investment in an aftermarket and testing facilities, was opened in workshop facility in the US and new Outlook early2013.
During the year, 19 product service offerings, has driven order intake Overall market conditions remain development and enhancement projects up 34%, on the previous year.
challenging and sales growth in 2014 is were completed resulting in higher not going to be easy to achieve.
We are performance ropes for the mining, Hawker Siddeley Switchgear had another confident that we will see further progress oil & gas and industrial sectors.
strong year with sales and operating in our Elster businesses in 2014.
However, profit achieving gains of 6% and 37% Bridon and Brush will find it more difficult Looking ahead, while the outlook for the respectively.
Performance at the to improve their performance.
Foreign mining sector remains uncertain, demand Transformers business also improved, exchange rates have continued to become from the oil & gas sector is expected with revenue up 6%, year-on-year.
an increasing headwind into 2014. tobesolid in 2014.
At the same time, commercial construction and industrial The medium to long-term outlook for We are actively looking for our next activity continue to grow in China, power generation and the gas turbine acquisition and are hopeful of progress andsigns of recovery are also visible market is positive and Brush is well placed this year although, as ever, we remain inthe US.
To mitigate the effects of the to benefit from this and the additional disciplined in applying our criteria.
downturn in the mining sector, Bridon growth opportunities in China and the has focused on implementing operational aftermarket business.
efficiency improvements and strong working capital control.
