CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Current trading and Outlook conditions in 2014.
This is also reflected in our proposed The strength and timing of any recovery in world economic increase of 5% in the total dividend to 10.5p.
markets is uncertain, our visibility relatively short and we remain exposed to some volatile economies.
This is We will next update the market on our first quarter trading for demonstrated by the recent adverse movements in foreign 2014 in an announcement on 15 April 2014. currencies that are impacting our overseas results when translated into Sterling impact on 2014 operating profit of This Strategic Report set out on pages 7 to 49 was approved approximately 4m at current exchange rates.
However, by the Board on 4 March 2014. we have continued to invest in additional fee earner headcount in selected markets since the start of the year.
We believe our clear and consistent growth strategy, our geographic Steve Ingham, and discipline diversity and our strong balance sheet, with Chief Executive Officer 85 million of net cash at year end, ensures that we remain in a strong position to respond to any improvements in market 4 March 2014 WE BELIEVE THAT OUR GOAL OF GROWTH OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS IS ACHIEVABLE We have the management depth and experience CHIEF EXECUTIVES We have a proven track record of scaling the business PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW We have world-renowned and fully integrated brands We have highly trained and motivated consultants Although 2013 was a challenging year for the recruitment industry We have the financial resources and the global economy in general, PageGroup was able to deliver a robust performance, with our key measure of gross profit net fee We have the ability to improve the quality and cost income just 2.5% lower than 2012, at 514m.
However, as a result of our focus on operational efficiencies, we delivered an operating effectiveness of the operational support functions profit before exceptional items of 68.2m, exceeding the prior year by 4.7%.
We are at a promising point in the economic cycle We achieved good performances in our significant UK and US with markets starting to show signs of improvement markets, and also in Spain, the UAE, Mexico and Japan.
There were also some signs of recovery in Continental Europe towards the end of the year.
In contrast, Australia remained a difficult market, with the continued downturn in the resources sector, and Steve Ingham Chief Executive Officer our largest business in Latin America, Brazil, felt the impact of more challenging conditions.
The refocusing of the business in the USA has been highly successful.
We now have a fast growing and profitable business in this region which has considerable potential for PageGroup.
Overall, year-on-year gross profit growth was amortisation of the Gateway IT project intangible asset of around experienced in 20 of the 34 countries in which we operate.
A strategic objective in 2013 was to initiate a stronger focus on During 2013, we also continued to invest in our large, high potential the consistency and efficiency of our operational support teams.
markets of China, South East Asia, Germany, Latin America and Operational support headcount has been reduced by 155, while the USA, identified in our long-term growth strategy.
We see these fee earner headcount has increased by 186, a net overall increase markets as sizeable long-term opportunities to achieve, or in most in headcount of 31.
At the same time, we continue to work on cases improve, our significant market share and consolidate our ways to deliver the optimal infrastructure and technology to enable position as the established market leader.
We are also mindful our people to best serve the needs of clients and candidates alike.
that these markets will develop according to local conditions and The savings made in operational support had a positive impact on market character, and along differing timeframes.
Our financial our cost base of approximately 10m in 2013 and hence on our commitment to these markets is coupled with the investment in performance.
In total, approximately 20m of recurring costs were transferring highly experienced PageGroup managers to lead the removed from the business, with the full benefit to be felt in 2014. efforts in country which also ensures that the unique PageGroup These savings will help mitigate cost base growth elsewhere, culture and best practice is adopted from the outset.
This is a such as salary increases representing 14m at approximately significant advantage for us, and is fundamental to our consistent 3% per head: investments in additional fee earner headcount: organic growth strategy, both across the economic cycle and as and in the supporting infrastructure, including the first full year of we look to grow in new markets.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 17 18 Strategic Report Strategic Report
