Chief Executives market and business review We are the UKs largest operator of managed restaurants and pubs, with a high quality freehold estate, some of the best known brands in the industry, substantial scale and committed retail teams.
This year, we have delivered a strong set of Leisure spending has been protected.
financial results, with sales and margin growth, Through the downturn, families have adjusted EPS up 17% and debt continuing to tended to protect low ticket leisure fall.
At the same time we have made good spending.
Average weekly family spending progress with our business transformation on leisure increased 4% from 2007 to 2011, programme which is on track and aimed at whereas overall weekly family expenditure focusing the business on four key priority areas: was down 6% over the same time our people, our practices, our guests and our source: ONS family spending survey 2012. profits.
We are confident this will help to drive Food remains the primary long-term our future growth and our ability to create route to sustainable growth in this sector.
We benefit from being principally focused on eating-out, with around three quarters of Market review our turnover generated from guests eating 2013 has not been an easy year for UK in our restaurants and pubs.
With wage rises not keeping pace eating-out market to grow at least in line with the general level of inflation in the with overall consumer spending in future.
economy, discretionary income has remained Even in the structurally declining drinkingtight.
This economic backdrop continues to out market, brands and formats with strong drive a challenging consumer environment locations, a clear brand proposition and and ever greater expectations when people customer focus should outperform.
do choose to spend their money.
It is in this There are significant economic disparities context that we are especially pleased with by region and by economic grouping.
our financial progress this year.
A number of Between 2006 and 2012, London, the East factors are impacting our markets evolution and the South East achieved substantially and we believe will continue to do so: higher economic growth than the rest of the country and this trend is forecast The market is large but fragmented.
45% of our revenues are The eating and drinking-out market is worth generated in these areas and we are 75bn a year and we are one of the largest well placed to benefit from this improving players in that market with sales of around trend.
Different economic groups have 2bn, approximately 3% of the total.
Our also been impacted to varying degrees by largest brand by sales, Harvester, has just the economic slowdown and subsequent 210 outlets in the UK compared to around austerity measures.
Baby boomers and 125,000 eating and drinking-out venues in more affluent economic groups have been total.
The opportunity for scale operators to relatively well protected whereas 18 to 34 grow by taking market share with leading year olds and the lower income deciles brands is significant in a market of this size.
have been the hardest hit.
Our brand The importance of brands is increasing.
portfolio is targeted at guests from across Although the majority of the industry is a wide spectrum, so it is increasingly unbranded, the branded restaurant and important that we focus the business to pub sector has consistently grown at a faster benefit from these dynamics.
We have rate than the unbranded sector and this invested heavily in this area in FY 2013 has accelerated in the downturn as guests and our brand teams are now highly seek the guarantee of quality that a brand focused on the specific market trends can offer.
We expect that this trend which impact their guests.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Our priorities in action 59% Our measure of guest recommendation, net promoter score, was up 4 percentage points to 59% Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Chief Executives market and business review continued Brand positioning, operating strategies Protect & compete: The heartland space, and expansion opportunities worth 4bn, is a market characterised by the We operate a wide range of scale brands and need to offer value to consumers who have formats which offer food and drink across a been most exposed to the economic downturn.
broad spectrum of price points and occasions, The effects of the recession and austerity have 75bn from a casual meeting with friends to special hit this consumer group more than other The eating and drinking-out market occasion dining.
We have identified five segments and the market dynamics are the is worth 75bn a year market spaces through our extensive most difficult of the market spaces in which consumer research on which to focus: we operate.
Our strategy is based around upmarket social, special, family, everyday social local flexibility and working hard to deliver and heartland.
These spaces cover about half exceptional value for our guests while of the 75bn eating and drinking-out market generating cash.
New menus in Sizzling Pubs and are impacted by a wide range of market and Oak Tree Pubs resulted in an improved dynamics.
We are increasing the efficiency volume performance in the second half of the of our capital allocation and maximising our year.
We have extended our sports coverage 4% returns on investment through three broad with both Sky Sports and BT Sport and we are Average weekly family spending on operating and expansion strategies.
focusing on improved staff recruitment and leisure increased 4% from 2007 to 2011 induction.
As a further example of this strategy, Invest & expand: The upmarket social, we recently launched new autumn menus in special and family spaces, together worth Crown Carveries which featured great value 35bn, currently benefit from the most main courses at 3.69, compared to the main attractive market trends and our businesses carvery price of 4.19.
These products satisfy in these areas were the strongest performers a guest need for great value, traditional meals in FY 2013.
We have strong brands in these at a price point less than 4, whilst protecting segments and we expect them to deliver good our cash margins per dish.
We have also 45% organic sales and profit growth in the future.
restructured our operations in this area, with 45% of our revenues are generated in In addition, we will be expanding our footprint a more efficient structure now in place to London, the East and the South East in these areas and are currently focusing on reduce travel time for regional management.
Harvester, Toby Carvery, Miller & Carter and All Bar One, where we can deliver attractive Business transformation programme returns on investment.
We opened 13 new In the half year results, we discussed how sites in these brands over the financial year.
We we are transforming the business to deliver will also expand our other businesses in these long-term growth in shareholder value by market spaces on an opportunistic basis and addressing some core questions: how we we opened one Browns and two Alex sites in attract, develop and retain outstanding and the year.
We expect the rate of new openings engaged people: how we operate scale to accelerate in this segment over the medium brands and formats effectively: and how we term towards 50 each year.
consistently delight our guests and therefore achieve market leadership.
Optimise & invest: The everyday social space, currently worth 2bn, is a market focused on 2013 is the first full year of the transformation drinking and eating-out in relaxed, comfortable, programme.
In FY 2012, we successfully community pubs.
We expect to grow in this restructured our central functions and area through optimising the sites we already modernised our core IT infrastructure, have rather than expanding site numbers.
This year, To this end, we have reallocated a proportion we have been building on these foundations of our maintenance capital to improve amenity and undertaking a more wide ranging change levels in certain brands and ensure the programme, aimed at focusing the business on brand positioning is suitable for their target four priority areas: our people, our practices, customers.
As an example, we are planning our guests and our profits.
We are pleased that to invest in Ember Inns over the next two we have been able to grow sales, margins and years, with a clear focus on driving both drink EPS whilst making progress in each of our and food volumes in warm and welcoming priority areas.
suburban pubs, firmly embedded in their local communities.
The list of brands within each market space is as follows.
Upmarket social includes All Bar One, Castle, Nicholsons and Alex.
Special includes Miller & Carter, Country Pubs and Browns.
Family includes Harvester and Toby Carvery.
Everyday social includes Ember Inns and ONeills.
Heartland includes Crown Carveries, Oak Tree Pubs and Sizzling Pubs.
See the Half Year Results 2013 for further discussion of these spaces.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Our priorities in action 25.4% Employment costs broadly maintained at 25.4% of sales while improving service, especially at peak times Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Our priorities in action 78% Staff turnover has decreased from 82% to 78% Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Our people: We consider the key measure Our profits: This year, adjusted earnings of success in relation to our people to be staff per share were up 17% based on higher turnover, which has decreased from 82% in sales, improved operating margins and FY 2012 to 78% in FY 2013.
We believe that lower interest charges, as described in when we successfully engage our people, the Financial Review.
The 50 basis point 17% they stay with us for longer, become more operating margin improvement is a good Increase in Adjusted EPS efficient, provide better service to our guests result and in line with our previously stated and in turn drive like-for-like sales.
Further aim to protect our operating margins and reductions in staff turnover are therefore seek incremental opportunities to expand a key focus going forward.
We are also them in the medium term.
committed to providing career opportunities to young people through our apprenticeship Outlook schemes, with approximately 1,600 The transformation programme is designed to employees completing a programme at our deliver the key building blocks of sustainable, 1600 year end.
We are particularly proud of our growth.
Informed by guest insight, we will Browns apprenticeship programme, which is make further progress next year through Employees completing apprenticeships now in its second year, and our Management investment into service, training and Development Apprenticeship, which began development, systems improvements and in Country Pubs and is now expanding across improved capital allocation.
In particular, a variety of projects will start to Our practices: Practices refer to the benefit the business.
In our Retail Support professional and efficient way that we run Centre, these include investment into new our operations.
We continue to focus on central systems in payroll and finance.
In our improving our already high scores in the FSAs restaurants and pubs, we are in the early Food Hygiene Ratings.
This year, we have stages of a project to replace our till, payment, broadly maintained outlet level employment table management and kitchen management costs as a percentage of sales at 25.4% whilst systems.
The new systems will enable the improving service, especially at peak times.
delivery of significantly improved guest Our purchasing teams have continued to service, measured both in quality and speed, restrict cost increases, especially in food, and allow improvements in menus and where overall inflation has been kept to below promotional activity to manage our gross 1% over the year compared to market inflation margins better.
The new systems are being of approximately 5% sources: ONS, Prestige rolled out at pace across the business, with Purchasing.
As a result of these actions, 125 sites live at the year end and 320 sites by together with lower pre-opening and closure the end of November.
costs and the residual savings from the restructuring in FY 2012, operating expenses We are cautious about the strength of the have marginally decreased and operating economic recovery over the next year and margins increased by 0.5 percentage points.
expect ongoing variation by geography and consumer group.
Like-for-like sales were up Our guests: We have chosen not to drive 0.1% in the first eight weeks of the new short term like-for-like sales through financial year.
We are pleased with the increased and unfocused promotional progress we are making on our transformation activity.
We aim to improve our relative programme and, as a result, we are well like-for-like performance through delivering placed to deliver sustainable profit growth consistently excellent guest experiences, and shareholder value in the future.
leading to increased revisits and recommendation.
The key driver of this will Alistair Darby be the willingness of guests to recommend Chief Executive our businesses to their friends and family which we measure through our net promoter score.
This year, the net promoter score across the business has increased by We ask our guests how likely they are to recommend 4 percentage points to 59%.
All of our our restaurants and pubs to their friends, families restaurants and pubs now have access to and colleagues, scored out of 10.
Each year we obtain a live dashboard which lets them see how around 700,000 responses.
The net promoter score for they are scoring against the most critical a pub is defined as the percentage of responses where we score 9 or 10 out of 10 brand promoters less the measures that drive guests to revisit and percentage of responses where we score 0 to 6 out of recommend our business to their friends, as 10 brand detractors.
Responses scoring 7 or 8 well as seeing comments from TripAdvisor passives are ignored in the calculation.
The periodic and Facebook reviews.
pub scores are averaged to calculate the overall score.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
