Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 07 Chief Executives strategy overview The world is changing.
It has been another good year at MITIE and I am pleased with theprogress we have made.
We have been awarded some veryexciting new business, mobilised our largest ever contract andmade our first investment in homecare.
At the same time, we have continued to successfully reshape MITIE to meet the ever-changing needs of our clients.
Over the following pages Ill explain how these changes are influencingour strategy: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Clients People Risk Responsibility New markets Operational Acquisitions excellence Provide worldRecruit, Take a longAct responsibly Expand our Improve the Support our class services motivate, term view and build capabilities in operational growth with to attractnew retain, train toprotect our areputation complementary efficiency selective clients and anddevelop business and that enhances markets.
retain and the best talent manage risk.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 08 Chief Executives strategy overview The continuing economic challenges in In further important private sector The number of UK residents over the the UK have created competitive market contract awards, we are now providing ageof 85 is expected to double over pressures for MITIE, in common with every integrated FM services for British Sky thenext 25 years and with the NHS UK-based business.
But the downturn Broadcasting Group BSkyB, via a andlocal authorities facing severe also brings opportunities as well.
We can contract valued in excess of 100m over budget constraints, care in the home is helpour clients achieve the operational five years.
We are responsible for a huge an attractive and cost-effective option.
efficiencies they need to become more range ofservices for BSkyB including Infact, homecare already accounts for competitive.
Through outsourcing, clients building fabric maintenance, around 10% of total UK healthcare spend.
can reduce costs and improve quality engineering maintenance, energy We see homecare as a great natural across a wide range of their non-core management, catering, security, fitwith our business: we are good at activities, and nobody is better placed cleaning, mail room and couriers, managing, motivating and training tohelp them than MITIE.
helpdesk, switchboard, shuttle buses, alarge mobile workforce: we know how grounds maintenance andinternal to use technology and innovation to We do not foresee dramatic landscaping.
improve service quality and efficiency: improvements in the UK economic and few organisations can rival our environment in the short to medium In the engineering sector, we are experience of bidding for, securing and term, and with this in mind, we have comprehensively restructuring our delivering large integrated contracts.
made some changes within our business.
operations and have ceased to offer We are further reducing our exposure services in several markets.
This resulted As well as attractive margins and strong tocyclical markets and concentrating inbusiness closure costs of 22.1m, which cash generation, Enara brings with it a our efforts on markets which feature are included in other items.
However, reputation for building good relationships long-term contracts and generate retail continues to present attractive with the NHS and local authorities, healthy, stable margins.
These changes opportunities in certain areas, and including some that we dont work for not only enable us to better meet the weare also maintaining our capability yet.
We are delighted with the way the needs of our clients, but also put us in toprovide bundled engineering and Enara integration is progressing including amuch stronger position to grow over interior fit-out services in London.
its re-brand to MiHomecare, and see the long term.
significant long-term opportunities in the MITIE has historically always been more UK healthcare market.
focused on the private sector, and this trend continued during the year, with Good progress The justice sector remains an important 61%of our revenue generated from the one for MITIE, and whilst the Ministry We have again performed with notable private sector.
Whilst some of ourgrowth ofJustice has shifted its prison success in the year to 31 March 2013, with has undoubtedly come from the market outsourcingstrategy, we expect to see strong organic growth being driven by shift towards large, integrated contracts, opportunities for the outsourcing of new and expanded contracts, as well we have also continued to retain and be facilities management services across asa major acquisition.
awarded contracts acrossthe whole the prison estate in the coming year.
In the private sector, the key highlight spectrum of the market.
Some of this Within the local authority market, waswithout doubt the mobilisation of years highlights are shown on the contract ourpainting business has been ourlargest-ever contract, the five-year, awards table on pages 16 and 17. awardeda 30m repair and 775m partnership to deliver integrated In the public sector, we focus on the maintenance contract with the London facilities management services for healthcare, justice, local authority and Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
social housing markets, and have seen Wehave also been appointed preferred This is a transformational contract for asteady flow of opportunities across all bidder for a social housing repairs and MITIE that shows we can deliver the our service lines.
maintenance contract for the Borough, very largest contracts.
Through it, with a total value of 177m over ten In October, we moved into the over 7,000 people are hard at work years.
Wesecured a ten-year repair and homecare sector for the first time improving efficiency and reducing maintenance social housing contract through the purchase of Enara for costs at more than 2,900 LBG locations.
Enara provides high quality This contract is rewarding in another way Association, to support its upkeep of homecare to people who require too.
We have worked with LBG for many 6,000 properties across Kent, with a helpand support due to illness, years and this is a great demonstration valuewhich will range between 70m disabilityor infirmity and is the fourth of how relatively small contracts can and 120m over its life.
largest provider of homecare services grow into major ones, aswe build inthe UK.
The business operates long-term relationships and deliver throughapproximately 60 branches a world-class service.
inEngland and Wales and has around 6,000 employees supporting over 10,000people.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 09 For example, it has become increasingly The Energy Solutions division will combine Fresh thinking in clear to us that being structured into the the expertise and skills of Utilyx and Asset achangingworld four divisions of Facilities Management, Management.
With Utilyxs research At MITIE, everything we do is driven by Technical Facilities Management, predicting thatenergy costs will potentially ourclients and one of our real strengths Property Management and Asset double by 2020, wehave the opportunity ishow we adapt ourselves in order to Management no longer quite matched to play an evenmore important role for respond to their needs.
Those needs are how clients now want to buy our services, our clients.
evolving at an ever-increasing pace, particularly FM.
They tend to see FM At the same time, fundamental changes sowe are constantly assessing and asagroup of relatedservices, so weve in our markets mean that some areas re-assessing our strategy to make sure it responded by bringingall our FM ofbusiness are no longer attractive to delivers great service for clients and capabilities under oneumbrella and us.
Over the last five years we have maximises value for shareholders.
offering them as single services, bundles seenchanges which in some cases we or integrated services, depending on believe are structural.
While we expect client needs.
Property Management will significant opportunities in many areas remain a separate division, focusing on for example, within energy and long-term contractsin the social housing integrated FM as well ashealthcare market, and providing niche property webelieve some other areas will services for commercial clients.
These two divisions will be Goingforward, we will actively seek to complemented by two new areas divest of cyclical businesses which are Healthcare and Energy Solutions, unable to reach our margin targets in bothofwhich we believe have great thelong term, and were therefore potential.
Healthcare will focus on the continuing to reduce activities in our homecare services offered by Enara, cyclical mechanical and electrical while Energy Solutions will develop engineering contracting businesses.
energy strategies for clients, manage Wecannot foresee any significant implementation anddeliver real recovery in this market, and the Office improvements in energy performance.
forNational Statistics now estimates Launching Gather & Gather thatconstruction output in the UK In April 2013, we launched a new brand for our catering business: isatitslowest since 1998, with privateGather & Gather.
Based around a commercial new work 38% below culture of bringing food and people its2008 peak.
together, the new identity will feature as the new trading name and customer facing identity for MITIEs catering offering.
Gather & Gather focuses on bringing together the best ideas, ingredients, recipes and inspiration from the food industry so that customers can gather together to enjoy them in the workplace.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Chief Executives strategy overview Sustained and profitable growth 2 Our strategy is well-established and has seven elements, all of which contribute People tostakeholder value through a focus onsustainable, profitable growth.
As the Strategy: recruit, motivate, retain, train and economic environment and our clients develop the best talent in the industry.
needs have changed, the fundamentals behind those seven elements remain Seeing our people in action never fails asrelevant as ever and Id like to todelight and inspire.
Passionate, caring provide a quick recap of each element and driven to delivering great service, here, outlining how its evolving and they are the public face of MITIE and whatthat means to our business.
thesingle biggest reason for our success.
We know that every decision a client ever makes about an outsourcing 1 contract is driven byrelationships andthats why we value our people so Clients highly.
From relationship managers and account teams to the people who cook, clean, drive and guard on the frontline Strategy: provide world-class services to of our operations, our people are what attractnew clients and retain and expand contracts with existing clients.
There is a clear trend for clients to want We work very hard to give them the skills more for less to help them compete in and tools they need to be successful aworld that is hugely testing.
Theyre andto make them feel part of a brilliant looking for operational efficiencies team.
For example, through our MITIE asalways but now they are looking Stars Awards we recognise and reward forthem on a bigger scale than ever.
people who go above and beyond for Anything non-core can and is being their clients and their colleagues.
way of saying thanks for a job extremely well done and this year we had as While all clients are looking to outsource, many stars as ever including Jon Burn, each is at a slightly different stage of the aMITIE engineer who almost journey, from that first tentative step into single-handedly kept open a hospital outsourcing, to having fully integrated Sunday Times Top 100 for50 elderly patients when it lost power services.
For us, growth can come from MITIEs Client Services business during a winter storm.
was named as one of the top 100 an existing client trusting us to provide businesses to work for in the UK, in alarger bundle of services or to move The Enara acquisition, new contract addition to being awarded the down the integrated services route awards and our organic growth meant Training & Development Special oritmight be a new client who has taken Award.
The Client Services business, that we increased headcount during which provides five star front-of-house the momentous decision to outsource theyear by 8,832 people to 72,401. services, was ranked at number forthe first time.
All three scenarios are Withsuch alarge and diverse group 45 inthe highly prestigious annual equally exciting to us and every contract Sunday Times rankings for 2013. ofpeople working across MITIE, for every client deserves and receives communication plays a vital role in the same high standards ofservice from helping them engage with our vision our teams.
We were one of the first organisations of our size to see the potential in social media and we still use Facebook and Twitter to enhance our communication with our people andstakeholders.
I want to thank each and every person for their contribution over the last year.
We wouldnt be where we are today without the tireless efforts and teamwork of all of our people.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 11 Real Apprentice success story A further 25 apprentices recently graduated from our award-winning Real Apprentice scheme.
The scheme partners the unemployed with MITIE or its clients for an eight week business placement involving dedicated mentoring and training.
Since it started in 2005, 238 apprentices have progressed through the programme and over 150 apprentices have secured permanent employment as a result.
In fact we support our people and 3 4 theircommunities in many ways.
In 2012 we launched our Health Revolution, Risk Responsibility aninitiative that encourages employees to lead healthier and happier lives.
Fromguides on exercise and nutrition Strategy: take a long-term view to protect Strategy: act responsibly and build a tipsto sun safety, and drug and alcohol ourbusiness and manage risk.
reputationthat enhances our brand to allstakeholders.
awareness, were working with industry We have a risk management strategy experts and enthusiasts to bring our Climate change has thrown inplace to identify and mitigate risks, people realistic tips on how to get the environmental issues into sharper inorder to protect our reputation and most from 2013. focusthan ever before, and were make sure we continue to deliver value committed to doing all we can to On 18 and 19May 2013, the MITIE London to clients.
reduceemissions, waste and energy Revolution cycle ride saw 2,500cyclists, Whenever we take on tasks that clients consumption not only in our own many of them from MITIE, ride up to used to handle in-house, we become operations but also, through our 180miles to help tackle youth responsible not only for those particular EnergySolutions division, for our clients.
unemployment as part of the Evening functions but also for the risk that comes Asa major employer, we are also Standards Ladder for London with them.
Sometimes the work we do is passionate about equal opportunities campaign.
If you use Twitter, catch up high profile by its nature or carries greater and engage with the UK Government with developments at @RevolutionRides.
inherent business or public relations risk and other bodies, such as Business in in the fields ofsecurity and healthcare, theCommunity, to inspire people of for example and this is where the allbackgrounds to seize opportunities.
commitment of ourpeople can be more Inthebroader sense of corporate important than ever.
Put simply, we rely responsibility, our healthcare and energy on their skills and attitudes, as well as on businesses are both well-placed to our own rigorous internal processes, to contribute towards a more sustainable minimise risk in all our contracts.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 Chief Executives strategy overview 5 6 7 New markets Operational Acquisitions excellence Strategy: expand our capabilities in Strategy: support our growth with complementary markets.
Strategy: improve the operational efficiency We are always alert to opportunity In addition to the purchase of Enara, ofeverything we do.
wherever it arises, and the evolved which was the third largest acquisition in This lies at the heart and soul of MITIE structure Ive already outlined our history, we also acquired a 51% stake being efficient is what we do, day after demonstrates how we constantly in one of the UKs leading independent day, for every client.
We are never reshape our business to reflect market events and leisure catering companies complacent and are always looking for shifts and changing client needs.
new ways to do more and to do it better Ourmixof services needs to support Creativevents provides services to a than ever.
Technology is a great driver thelong-run growth aspirations of our broad range of clients in the exhibition, ofefficiency.
Right now, weare investing business, and with this in mind we are sporting, festival, cultural and heritage significantly in technology to supportour focused on entering new markets which sectors and is a fine example of how operational teams and so our clients meet our margin targets and generate wedrive growth through selective willbe able to quickly and easily keep long-term, secure revenue.
Established by two brothers track of exactly what were doing, We moved into homecare because we fifteen years ago with funding from the wherewere doing it and what stage identified it as an area where we see Princes Trust, Creativevents already has thework is at.
significant opportunities to use our core asuperb reputation and has twice been skills to reduce costs and improve quality listed in the Sunday Times Fast Track 100 at the same time.
With our investment it will business is another example of where we beable to continue developing stylish, have seen opportunity and expanded high quality and high volume fresh food our capabilities to seize it with both and drinks concepts.
Energy services will remain a Acquisitions have always been part fundamental part of what we do for ofMITIEs growth strategy, and we will clients, as energy costs continue to rise continue to look for opportunities that upthe agenda for every organisation.
can create value for our shareholders and support the long-term goals we have for the business.
MITIE Work Wise MITIE Work Wise is a new MITIE Model start-up business providing document process outsourcing to professional services organisations.
Theyve developed a unique e-platform, which is a convenient and intelligent way of storing, indexing, presenting and comprehensively searching large volumes of documents.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 13 Launching MiHomecare When we acquired Enara, itoperated under 25 brands across59 branches.
The acquisition moved us into a new market centred around caring for people, and presented an opportunity to create a new national brand in the healthcare market.
The new MiHomecare brand will be rolled across all the branches and will operate as a totally separate brand from MITIE, for everything related tohealthcare around people.
Outlook Fresh thinking in a changing world is thetheme for this Annual Report and itneatly sums up our view of whats required in todays business environment from MITIE as well as from our clients.
Make no mistake, the economic climate is tough and we see this as ongoing.
Our efforts are focused on long-term FMopportunities, higher margin healthcare provision and energy consulting, all of which will support ourgrowth aspirations.
We expect outsourcing opportunities will continue to grow, with a trend towards more clients seeking to access more integrated services.
Responsiveness remains the watchword MITIE will evolvewith our clients in order to increase value for all of our stakeholders.
We are confident that we will continue to build on our long track record of Creativevents sustainable profitable growth.
Creativevents provides catering, barsand hospitality services to a Ruby McGregor-Smith cbe broad range of clients, operating Chief Executive within a complementary sub-sector of the contract catering and hospitality markets.
It serves customers at high profile events and sites such as Earls Court & Olympia exhibition centres, the ExCel centre in London and the Chelsea Flower Show.
Creativevents will support the growth and repositioning of our catering business, Gather & Gather.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
