8 StrAtegIC report CHIeF exeCutIVe oFFICerS reVIew 2013 has been a year of significant change for Morgan, implementing a new organisation structure, striving for profit and margin improvements in markets that predominantly have afforded little or no growth and accelerating our portfolio transformation.
I am pleased to report that, relative to our direct competitors, we have demonstrated significantly greater resilience in the difficult market conditions.
nevertheless, we are very clear that regardless of market conditions, as an organisation our aspiration remains to drive absolute improvement in our results.
In 2013, against the backdrop of the difficult environment, whilst we made year-on-year progress in our group eBItA margin, increasing it to 12.4% 2012: 12.0%, our revenue and eBItA in absolute terms were below 2012 levels.
However, I believe that the structural and portfolio changes that we mArk rOberTShAw are well advanced in making leave us well CHIeF exeCutIVe oFFICer positioned to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities in 2014 and to continue to improve further the quality and returns of the group, both in relative and absolute terms.
we reMAIn FoCuSeD on BuIlDIng One morgan SuStAInABle CoMpetItIVe ADVAntAge In February 2013 we announced and began the In AttrACtIVe MArKetS, tHrougH implementation of our one Morgan model streamlining the former Divisional organisation A portFolIo oF BuSIneSSeS wItH and moving to a single management structure organised on a regional basis: north America, truly DIFFerentIAteD proDuCtS europe and Asia rest of world.
In this new model, each region is able to offer our AnD SerVICeS, unDerpInneD By customers the full range and depth of our products and technologies and I am delighted worlD-leADIng teCHnology.
with how well this major organisational change has been implemented.
the simplification of the management structure has improved our global communication and accelerated the pace of change, leaving the group increasingly well positioned for future profitable growth and margin enhancement.
we successfully implemented this new organisational model without losing focus on our day-to-day operations and whilst continuing to provide excellent service to our customers.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 9 the focus of the move to the one Morgan our goal is for all our businesses and revenue in north America declined 5.6% organisation remains on capturing greater technologies to have the potential to deliver relative to 2012 at constant currency.
the profitable growth opportunities by fully mid-teen operating profit margins and we decline in large petrochemical project demand leveraging the breadth of our geographic and have already exited in 2013 from certain impacted our high-temperature insulating market access.
whilst it is still early days, there businesses that fall short of our requirements fibre and insulating firebrick sales, with some have already been some initial successes in this of technology-rich, mid-teen margins.
In 2013 degree of offset by increased sales of our fibre area with additional sales opportunities being our Composites and Defence Systems business products to the automotive industry and to the identified and pursued through our extensive formerly np Aerospace exited a spares general industrial market.
we have increased range of customers and channels.
and logistics contract with the uK Ministry our Superwool low bio-persistent fibre of Defence MoD : whilst supporting the capacity and market penetration and this has whilst I will comment on the group Composites and Defence Systems-built Mastiff provided benefits to both sales and margin.
and regional results in more detail later on, fleet in theatre was important and a source north America was also adversely impacted by it is worth noting that the general industry of revenue, it was not an advanced materials a decline in our sales to the electronics market.
background has been difficult through 2013 business and generated very low margins.
whilst the consumer electronics market as a and in most markets we have seen limited towards the end of 2013 we also sold the whole weakened during 2013, we were pickup in demand as many countries around majority of our shares in the loss-making specifically impacted by reduced hard disc drive the world continue to find achieving meaningful Assam Carbon products limited, India.
sales as we chose not to engage in heavy price economic recovery to be a challenge.
However, this process of portfolio reshaping will discounting and saw our market share of I am pleased to report that the operational and continue through 2014. this business reduce as a consequence.
cost benefits targeted under one Morgan have encouragingly our sales of electrical brush been realised, enabling us to improve operating and related products did increase during 2013, Group results margins despite the difficult competitive largely due to new business wins in the with challenging market conditions, our environment, whilst at the same time positioning wind energy after-market where we revenue of 957.8 million was 4.9% below us better for future profitable growth.
have successfully developed differentiated 2012 at both reported exchange rates and on high-performing products that are taking a constant currency basis.
this year-on-year one of the key operational benefits of the new a growing share in those applications.
reduction was a reflection of revenue being structure is that we have significantly shortened lower in the first half of 2013 compared to the our reporting lines, enabling closer contact revenue for the european region was 3.7% first half of 2012: with revenue in the second with the operating units and an increased level below 2012 at constant currency, though, half of 2013 increasing marginally compared of agility to respond even more effectively as with group revenue, this year-on-year to the equivalent period in the prior year on to any change in market conditions.
It has also decline was all relative to the first half of 2012. a constant currency basis.
given us the opportunity to re-evaluate the one encouraging exception was an increase in businesses and technologies in our portfolio, our electrical brush and rotary business during Despite the lower revenue, group underlying to heighten further our focus on building the course of the year, driven by successfully operating profit of 108.5 million was sustainable competitive advantage winning market share from our competitors.
Despite the continued reduction in uK defence spending, our uK-based Composites and All three regions saw a large decline in major Defence Systems business delivered sales petrochemical projects, into which we provide very similar to 2012 at improved margin our high-temperature insulating fibre and levels.
whilst, as noted above, we exited the insulating firebrick management solutions.
low-margin vehicles spares contract towards the low level of global industrial demand the end of 2013, we have been successful and reduced credit availability to fund such large in some important new contract wins for projects has led to delays in their commissioning.
2014 and beyond, particularly in armoured encouragingly, enquiry levels for these projects vehicle programmes for the uK MoD.
remained high in 2013 and in recent weeks we have seen some initial project orders being placed, providing some grounds for optimism in this market for 2014.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 10 StrAtegIC report CHIeF exeCutIVe oFFICerS reVIew continued revenue in Asia rest of world was 5.7% During 2013 we have continued to focus hard Technology and innovation lower than 2012 at constant currency.
In on making improvements to our operating cost we are an advanced materials group and addition to the weak petrochemical market, base.
whilst not the primary reason for the world-leading technology and constant the general industrial market was also subdued, one Morgan initiative, we have successfully innovation is at the core of what we do.
most notably in China and India.
In 2013 we realised significant cost benefits as a result of we have continued to increase our investment celebrated 25 years of having an operational the organisational streamlining.
Further cost in r&D in 2013 in both and % terms.
Spend presence in China, and, whilst our sales in benefits have come in 2013 from the full-year in 2013 was 20.2 million, or 2.1% of sales, China and most of the rest of the region were impact of initiatives undertaken in the second compared with 19.6 million in 2012 1.9% of lower year-on-year, we remain confident in half of 2012. we continue to increase the use sales.
the move to one Morgan has provided the long-term demand prospects of the region.
of our low-cost manufacturing footprint, for additional impetus to our r&D efforts.
we As a result, we continue to invest significant example, completing the relocation of electrical appointed in 2013 a group Chief technology amounts of resource, both in terms of our brush manufacturing from the netherlands to officer, whereas in the past this function was people and also in new capital investment.
Hungary and the cessation of high-temperature conducted at the divisional level.
His remit we are close to completion of our greenfield ceramic fibre manufacturing in high-cost is to co-ordinate and deploy group-wide site in Dalian, China for high-temperature Australia, Japan and South Africa, supplying r&D resource on those initiatives that are castable products and expect to commission these markets instead from our lower cost considered to be the highest potential this new plant in the second quarter of 2014. facilities elsewhere in the world.
examples we also expect to commence work in of this include the development of next- 2014 on a new plant for Superwool As a result of the cost actions taken, combined generation low bio-persistent fibres, extending high-temperature insulating fibre in Khalifa with the positive changes we have made to our the temperature coverage of our Superwool Industrial zone Abu Dhabi, the united Arab product mix, we have progressively delivered Fibre products, and the introduction of emirates which will give us close proximity to increases in our group eBItA: 11.0% in the additional global Materials Centres of key customer opportunities in petrochemical second half of 2012, increasing to 12.0% in the excellence these are single locations where markets in the region and access to low-cost first half of 2013 and 12.9% in the second half we consolidate development resource and energy, which is a key element of the operating of 2013. the 2013 full-year eBItA margin of efforts for our major product lines, providing costs of this business.
we also recognise the 12.4% is an improvement against the 12.0% critical mass that links effectively with our increasing demand in the former emerging in 2012. global manufacturing and sales network.
markets for technically differentiated products and processes in areas such as medical devices, the group also continued to generate good advanced electronics and aerospace.
we have levels of cash and to further reduce the net world-leading technology and products in all of debt position to 186.5 million 2012: 192.8 these areas and already serve these applications million, leaving the group with the capability in the west.
under the one Morgan structure to easily finance any appropriate bolt-on we are leveraging this technological capability in acquisitions that satisfy our investment criteria.
these growing, higher margin markets through the financial performance and the progress our well-established local presence.
we have made underpins our progressive dividend enjoyed some early successes and see even policy and the increase in the final dividend to greater opportunity for the future in these 6.7 pence 2012: 6.4 pence, giving a full-year higher-tech areas.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 11 Our people looking forward I have been delighted with the way in which our goal is to deliver sustained profitable the group workforce has embraced the growth, effectively exploiting our world-leading new organisational structure.
Many have been technology and global reach not only to take affected by the change in the organisation, advantage of end-market recovery but most assuming new responsibilities and working importantly to create our own opportunities.
Such change brings with it the challenge of maintaining good we have already actioned a number of our business continuity and I am delighted with portfolio reshaping initiatives to increase the way our employees have risen successfully further our focus on accelerated profitable to these challenges.
regrettably, this regrowth underpinned by differentiation and organisation, along with a number of the technological leadership, and we expect more cost reduction initiatives implemented across of these portfolio reshaping initiatives to come the group, has led to some redundancies.
I see this as an unfortunate but necessary consequence of looking to do the best for the creation of one Morgan, our increased the group as a whole.
In such redundancy investment in innovation and technology and situations we ensure that, in addition to the quality of our people leave us increasingly complying with local legislation, we seek to well positioned to deliver such growth and treat our people with honesty and respect margin enhancement.
As a group we recognise the importance of developing our people.
one Morgan has further helped in mark robertshaw this regard, allowing us to take a single, global Chief executive officer view of the talent in our organisation and how we manage their careers across geographies and functions to ensure we are developing our future leaders.
to support this we have increased the scale of our award-winning graduate recruitment programme with 26 new graduates hired in 2013, compared to 20 in 2012, and a target to bring in more than 30 in 2014. these graduates are sourced from top universities around the world and a significant proportion of them are women, providing real diversity.
I am pleased to report that securing the brightest young minds from the best universities across the world is providing us with an exciting and growing pipeline of real talent for the future.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT
