CHIEf ExECUTIvES REvIEw The group has made good progress this year with the fastest rate of revenue growth since 2009.
This has been achieved by investing in high levels of new customer recruitment, improving our product and promotional offers, especially online, and making progress with our key strategic initiatives.
The 53rd week last year delivered revenue of 12.9m and operating profit of 2.9m.
The commentary below is all based on a comparison of 2012 13 with the 52 week version of 2011 12.
Revenue The number of those customers who had placed an order in the last year Revenue growth has been delivered was up by 6%, a key indicator of in our core home shopping business future growth.
supplemented by increased contributions from our international Target Age Revenue m % Change and stores operations.
For the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 group 30-50 305 15 Over 50 480 1 revenue was 784.7m, up by 6.0% in total and by 5.5% on a like-forTotal 785 6 like basis.
The growth in revenue accelerated as we progressed Under 50 Customer Group throughout the year, culminating in a strong second half which was up The brands in this customer segment by 7.1% on a like-for-like basis.
continue to be the main contributors to the groups overall revenue growth.
Customer Groups Simply Be is the largest brand in The key objective of our marketing this segment with sales in excess of activity this year was to restore growth 122m and growth of 14% across all to the customer file, and this has been channels and geographies.
It has the successfully achieved.
Sales from new most fashion-conscious customers customers increased by 24% during and our expertise is in recognising the year benefitting from an extra 6m the latest trends and designing of marketing investment in media costs our clothing range to look good on compared with the previous year.
customers whether they are size The additional investment has been 14 or size 32.
On average Simply Bes spent with the online search engines customers are visiting the website on pay per click recruits, which is every few days looking for new lines.
now our single largest channel of recruitment, and for television airtime Jacamo is targeted at the brandfor direct response advertisements.
conscious thirty-something male Inevitably these methods of who wants the convenience of online recruitment bring in younger than shopping and branded clothing in average customers.
their size, and identifies with the funloving image of the brand, exemplified In addition to the increased sales from by Freddie Flintoff as our brand new customers we also saw a 1% ambassador.
This continues to be increase in orders from our established our fastest growing brand with sales database and a 2% increase in the up by 36%.
amount spent by each customer.
We entered the new financial year with an Fashion Worlds customers, who active database of 6.4m customers, are primarily from lower sociowho are predominantly female with an demographic groups, have had a average age of 57. tough time in the last few years but a 10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Group revenue Adjusted earnings Total dividend up 6.0% to per share up 5.0% to 784.7m 28.15p 13.68p revamp of the product range, a more Product Groups barrier for the first time.
The use of Freddie Flintoff as a contemporary feel to the catalogue Revenue % of % celebrity ambassador for Jacamo, and website and the use of celebrities Category m Total Change including strong sales from his own such as Claire Sweeney and Claire Ladieswear 362 46 1 range, contributed to the growth of Richards to promote the brand, have Footwear 87 11 5 younger menswear.
resulted in revenue growth of over 4%.
Menswear 100 13 8 Home & Gift 236 30 15 Home and gift sales had an excellent Figleaves, the leading online lingerie year with growth of 15%.
Our strategy Total 785 100 6 brand, has seen strong growth in across all product groups was to profitability, managing its cost base sharpen our price points on easily In light of the lacklustre economy extremely well on revenues which comparable lines and this had the and the adverse weather conditions were slightly up.
greatest effect on the home and gift throughout most of last year it is revenue.
In addition we have been pleasing that we have managed 50 Plus Customer Group using our supplier integration portal to grow revenue in all four product The 50 plus customer group has had to significantly increase the number of categories.
a difficult time during the recession lines available online with the product but there were signs of improvement Ladieswear revenue grew by 1%.
being despatched directly from the The global supply chain has settled in the second half, when revenue grew supplier.
The aggregate impact of down after the turbulent conditions in by 3%, resulting in a positive sales these changes was to drive much 2011 and this has helped us to have outcome for the year as a whole.
higher volumes at a lower rate of better balanced stock levels, resulting gross margin with a net benefit in The strongest growth in this segment in higher full margin sales but fewer terms of cash contribution.
Within this came from House of Bath, which discounted sales.
The impact of a category there were some excellent sells an eclectic range of items for the very wet summer followed by a cold performances from electrical, furniture, home and garden, where revenue start to 2013 depressed sales but in homewares, toys and gifts.
grew by 34%, built on very successful between we had strong sales from Multi-channel recruitment campaigns.
There was our autumn ranges.
We exploited our online capabilities to create fashion also strong growth from Marisota Online sales have increased as a stories and capsule ranges to reflect which targets customers in their early proportion of our home shopping the latest trends.
In contrast the sales 50s with a catalogue and website revenues by five percentage points of occasionwear and higher priced or more for each of the last 8 years.
offering fitting solutions for clothing garments were disappointing.
Last year the proportion rose from and footwear.
The menswear brands, 50% to 55% with online revenue High & Mighty and Premier Man, saw Footwear sales were up by 5% with rising by 15% to 424m, maintaining modest growth.
Our largest brand, the strongest growth from Viva La our position in the top division of Diva, our online footwear portal, and JD Williams and its associated titles, internet retailers.
The growth of mens footwear.
The weather patterns which supply a wide range of products online purchasing is partly down to resulted in strong boot sales but weak to customers who are typically retired, global acceptance of digital media by sandal sales.
saw revenue fall by 5%, partly due to consumers and we aim to accelerate reductions in the recruitment budget in Menswear continued its strong growth this trend with our customers as it previous seasons.
Julipa, focussed on as it has done for each of the last 5 delivers increased revenue and lower our most traditional customers, years, and broke through the 100m operating costs.
To this end we now had flat sales year on year.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 CHIEf ExECUTIvES REvIEw Menswear sales Ladieswear sales Share of up 8% to up 1% to online sales pass 100m 362m 55% recruit most customers through online targeted locations.
During the year we will launch a dedicated Marisota campaigns, sponsoring approximately we opened a further five Simply Be website in April 2013 as well as one for five million key words and phrases stores and in addition we utilised Jacamo menswear.
through online search engines coupled some of the space in three of the Our marketing expenditure in Germany with sophisticated optimisation stores for the Jacamo menswear has been significantly reduced and techniques.
We also link our direct range, which has done exceptionally focussed wholly online.
Whilst this has response television campaigns and well.
Total revenue from the Simply reduced revenue by 38% to 2.2m our newspaper advertisements into Be Jacamo stores was 4.6m with it has reduced losses and gives an our websites.
We continue to expand start-up losses of 2.2m.
We are expectation of breakeven next year.
the number of internet exclusive in the process of evaluating the product lines and last year had 84,000 incrementality of these sales, the Oxendales is our primary brand in stock options which were never positive halo effect on online sales Ireland, where we have traded for featured in a catalogue generating and the projected return on capital many years.
The continuing economic an incremental 42m of revenue.
Assuming this evaluation woes have seen a decline in both sales Last year saw an explosion in mobile is positive we will look to open a and profits since the recession hit, and access to the internet through the limited number of stores in high last year revenues fell a further 15% to burgeoning sales of smartphones and footfall locations.
14.2m and operating profit was down tablet computers.
Our High & Mighty stores had revenue all our websites to be mobile friendly Figleaves derives 22% of its total of over 9m, up by 5% despite tough and by the year end 26% of all online revenue of 24.7m from overseas, trading conditions in many of the sessions were being accessed from with the USA the main market, and locations where they are trading.
mobile devices, which accounted for has ambitions to grow sales further However more promotional activity 23% of the value of sales transacted.
resulted in a loss of 0.7m compared There is much evidence that the with our aspiration to reach breakeven.
older consumer is adapting to tablet Gross Margin and Credit computers at a fast rate which will help International The rate of gross margin was level to accelerate the switch from paper to Simply Be and Figleaves allow with the previous year at 53.0%.
digital media in the coming years.
international orders to be placed However this masks a 1.6% increase on their websites from many parts in the rate of gross margin in the The ideal scenario for the customer of the world, but our overseas second half to offset an equivalent is to be able to switch seamlessly marketing is focussed on USA, Ireland reduction in the first half.
There have between channels without noticing and Germany.
International sales been three key features which shaped any variation in the branding or service amounted to 30.2m with losses of the gross margin.
Simply Bes sales lines throughout the various product number of inbound calls to our contact in the USA grew by 75% to 8.4m with categories successfully traded gross centre decline by 9% but by offering an acceleration in the second half.
We margin rate for volume growth, but this the same affinity products to our are still testing a variety of marketing was more than offset by a significant telephone orderers as we do to our and recruitment techniques, and have reduction in the level of product and online customers we increased found that the Marisota product range, marketing discounts compared with our add-on sales by 15m.
which is slightly less fashionable than the high level in the second half of To be truly multi-channel requires a Simply Be, yields better results from 2011 12 when we had excess levels store portfolio and we are testing this direct mail recruitment.
Consequently of stock to clear.
The ratio of bad concept for our younger brands in 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Online sales Footwear sales Home & Gift up 15% to up 5% to sales up 15% to 424m 87m 236m debts to sales rose by 0.4% to 8.1% Current Trading and Outlook Change of Chief Executive due to the high level of customer We have made good progress with This is my last Chief Executives report recruitment.
The underlying level our strategic plan in the last year but before starting to hand over to Angela of arrears and write-offs was level there are still many opportunities to Spindler from 1 July 2013.
I have had a with the prior year and the increase develop in the new financial year.
hugely enjoyable career with N Brown in the ratio is wholly due to this The trading processes and organisation Group in two spells totalling 25 years, customer mix.
have been revamped to recognise the the last 11 years as chief executive, pre-eminence of the online channel and I must especially thank David The services revenue associated with and also to strengthen the focus Alliance and Jim Martin for both these our credit accounts rose by 6.1% to on our key brands, both from opportunities.
It is almost impossible 226.9m, 29% of our total revenue.
product development and marketing to believe that the business I joined perspectives.
We will offer more choice with sales of 42m in 1985 could Overheads in payment options to attract those deliver these results in 2013.
The A 5% increase in average item values customers who do not wish to open talent, enthusiasm and dedication of helped contain the rise in distribution a credit account.
The transition from everyone in the group has delivered costs to 3.9%.
To build up the paper contacts to online communication this long-term transformation and customer database we invested an will be managed carefully to drive sales I sincerely thank everyone for their extra 6m in recruitment campaigns, and reduce costs.
The higher level of contribution.
offset by a 2.5m reduction in customer recruitment investment will be catalogue costs through our contact The business is in good shape maintained.
Strong revenue increases optimisation programme.
In addition today with a strong management are anticipated from our operations in we had invested further to support team and I firmly believe that the the United States, and from our Simply group has an excellent strategic our strategic initiatives to drive Be Jacamo stores, and we expect position with an exciting future international revenue and develop lower levels of operating losses as these ahead of it.
I offer Angela my full the stores channel.
support and best wishes to realise Customer Service Revenue in the first 7 weeks of the this potential and I am sure the group new financial year is up by 6.3% will continue to prosper under Andrew We are continually looking to improve and by 6.1% on a like-for-like basis.
The strength of our customer base During the last twelve months we is the most positive influence in have made more of the product range delivering this rate of growth which available for next day delivery and has been achieved despite the cold moved the cut-off time from 2pm to spell in March which has significantly 6pm.
We have improved the online impacted the sales of ladies summer self-service My Account facility clothing.
However sales of footwear and the automated service emails and menswear have been positive and Alan White are keeping the customers better home and gift has continued its strong informed and generating revenue.
This product mix has The end result has been a reduction impacted the achieved rate of gross in the number of enquiries and claims margin so far but we hope that we from our customers, keeping us in the will enjoy better weather than the wet top quartile for service amongst our summer of 2012 to redress this issue.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
