Strategic Report: Group Chief Executives Review Operational excellence lies at the heart of everything we do Our core businesses, in diversified international bus and coach markets, are providing a strong platform for growth.
Group revenue increased by 3% to 1.89 billion 2012: 1.83bn, with revenue growth in every division except rail.
UK Coach was the standout success, as it bounced back from the impact of the previous withdrawal of senior citizen concession funding.
Excluding one-off Olympics profits in 2012, UK Coach profit increased by 30% year-on-year.
The key was to give customers what they wanted easy access to lower fares, more frequent and punctual services and investment in our third party operated fleet of modern coaches.
Dean Finch Overview of 2013 National Express has delivered a strong Group Chief Executive Excellent customer service also drove success financial performance in 2013.
Normalised 27 February 2014 in the North America business.
97% contract Group profit before tax was 143.7 million, retention in School Bus led to a record operating ahead of our target, with a fourth consecutive profit in 2013, supported by the second year record year for operating profit in our core of a programme to improve operating margin non-rail business.
Total Group revenue grew and return on capital by contract.
Conditions 3% and we secured 1.8 billion of future revenue were challenging for our other divisions UK from markets where we didnt operate just Bus increased profit contribution through cost two years ago.
We generated over 180 million efficiency and fleet investment, but overall profit of free cash flow and reduced our net debt fell due to pension accounting changes and by over 80 million.
the reduction in government fuel duty rebate from 2012.
Spain suffered a 7% reduction in This reflects the good progress we have made operating profit, reflecting a challenging trading in 2013 against each of our three strategic environment in the face of economic recession goals.
First, in our core markets we grew both and the Eurozone crisis.
Improved customer revenue and non-rail profit.
This is part of our service, reduced costs and winning new Operational Excellence programme, with contracts, such as Guadalajara and Tangiers, each division committed to delivering better were key to offsetting these headwinds.
customer service and lower costs.
Second, we have delivered excellent cash flow, which For our investors, we are backing our revenue we have used to reinvest in the business, and profit performance with strong cash pay an increased dividend to shareholders External view Safety generation and an improving return on capital and pay down debt.
Third, we have generated employed.
At the beginning of 2013, we set growth in new markets, which offer future ourselves the targets of delivering 125 to revenue and profit potential to supplement 150 million of free cash flow and increasing our existing businesses.
our pre-tax return on capital from our core non-rail business ROCE.
We achieved We have exceeded our profit and cash over 180 million of free cash flow in 2013 generation expectations.
we recognised the challenging headwinds Net debt reduced to 746.1 million 2012: we faced a total of 39 million of fuel price 828.2m.
We continue to invest in our fleet inflation, ongoing impacts from government but are using capital more efficiently, reflecting austerity cuts in the UK, North America and economic conditions in Spain and our margin Spain, pension accounting changes, and the improvement programme in North America.
loss of contribution from the National Express Driving Out Harm is an exemplar safety East Anglia NXEA rail franchise which ended Our reputation, operational expertise and improvement programme, and has led to during 2012.
We have delivered 21 million in contracting know-how in the UK, Spain and a 50% reduction in harm in just two years.
profit from revenue growth and 30 million in North America is being leveraged to create The leadership of safety from the Group cost savings and synergy.
Whilst the reduction new business opportunities in selected markets Chief Executive is as strong and effective as in rail profits led to 2013 Group profit before and geographies.
Over the last two years we weve seen anywhere and is transforming tax declining to 143.7 million 2012: 164.1m, have invested to build business development the culture of safety throughout the Group.
normalised operating profit from our core teams with the skills and experience to deliver non-rail businesses reached a record level Richard Clarke, success in target contract and concession of 185.5 million 2012: 185.2m.
Director, Arthur D Little markets and are currently working on a pipeline of opportunities worth over 10 billion of revenue.
In 2013, this produced sizeable contract wins and new business opportunities, securing 1.8billion of future revenue from new markets.
In Germany we won our first two rail 06 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 contracts and launched coach services in In Rail, c2c continued its excellent bought travelcards, which lower travel costs the newly liberalised domestic market.
In US performance, remaining the best UK whilst encouraging loyalty to National Express Transit we have won five new contracts, taking franchise for punctuality throughout 2013. services.
Rail revenue at c2c rose by 4% as annual revenue to $80 million in just 18 months.
It received 5-star quality accreditation we carried more passengers.
Building on our operational excellence in c2c, and in May secured a franchise extension Delivering revenue growth through better the UKs best performing and customer rated to September 2014. customer service requires us to understand rail franchise, we have submitted strong bids for our customers needs better: build partnerships Strategy the Essex Thameside and Crossrail contracts with our stakeholders: tackle the root causes In 2011 I set out our strategy for National and successfully prequalified for the ScotRail bid.
of poor service delivery: and be agile on pricing.
We have delivered a step change In total, we invested 25.7 million in exceptional in our non-rail businesses, improving margins, costs to drive new business development, We work hard to understand and meet generating cash and driving returns.
Our portfolio cost efficiency and acquisition integration.
Customer surveys, today comprises well established businesses, panels and focus groups inform our actions Highlights operating in stable markets, effectively run by and customer satisfaction is strong across Highlights of 2013 included: experienced management teams and which the Group: give access to attractive growth opportunities.
The Group delivered 7% growth in total Our three part strategy is successfully building ALSA was rated the best transport non-rail revenue, increasing core non-rail shareholder value by delivering consistent company in Spain for customer excellence.
business operating profit for the fourth year in progress in our core divisions, generating It successfully retained its urban contract succession and delivering non-rail normalised superior cash and returns, and creating in Palencia on renewal and was awarded earnings per share EPS of 20.1 pence.
profits from new, capital-light markets.
new contracts in Tangiers and Guadalajara.
With a robust policy to cover regular Against the backdrop of a tough economic dividends approximately two times from 1.
Delivering operational excellence environment, our customer recommendation non-rail earnings, the full year proposed Our objective is to provide safe, punctual and rate increased by five percentage points dividend has increased 3% to 10.0 pence.
frequent public transport services at excellent to 87%.
Free cash flow beat the enhanced target prices.
To achieve this, our businesses each North America School Bus achieved 92% set in July 2013 by over 30 million.
focus on delivering operational excellence, customer satisfaction, up from 85% in 2012, UK Coach grew total revenue 3%, with comprising: reaping the benefits of our local focus on express passenger revenue 7% higher and service delivery and improved key account consistent service performance for our volume growth in all core segments.
customers, leading to revenue growth: by better pricing, improved punctuality and Both UK Bus and UK Coach deployed continuous cost efficiency improvement, new distribution agreements, operating customer technology in response to leading to better margins and returns: margin exceeded 9% for this capital-light changing customer expectations.
Over and living our core values every day, business which generated over 30 million 100,000 people have now downloaded the leading to a sustainable business.
National Express West Midlands app, whilst Revenue growth North America grew total revenue by 10%, coach travellers can follow their services real We have seen revenue growth in every business successfully completing the integration of time.
Coach customers can now buy tickets in 2013, after adjusting for the end of the NXEA the Petermann school bus acquisition from through a host of new distribution channels, franchise.
Total revenue in the core bus and 2012 and winning new transit contracts.
including Ryanair and the Post Office.
coach operations has grown by 7% through 97% contract retention, conversion bid c2c has now been the best performing service improvement, contract wins and success and a focus on investing only in operator in the UK rail industry for a recordselective acquisitions.
In Spain we grew total contracts generating adequate returns led breaking two years continuously, with an revenue by 1% as new contracts and growth in to a five percentage point improvement annual punctuality measure of 96.9% at urban bus concessions offset lower passenger in pre-tax return on assets ROA to 22%, year end.
demand in the recession-hit intercity coach and operating cash generation of almost We invested over 80 million in net capital sector.
Total revenue in North America grew by US$200 million in 2013. expenditure in 2013, adding nearly 900 new 10%.
We retained all the customers transferred UK Bus grew commercial revenue by 2%, vehicles across our operations in UK Bus, through the Petermann acquisition, achieved launched commercial smartcards in the Spain and North America.
97% contract retention in our existing school West Midlands and signed a groundbus business and increased the price we breaking agreement with Centro, the West We have built constructive partnerships with achieved on contract renewal, as we focused Midlands Integrated Transport Authority, our key stakeholders.
UK Bus has a partnership on more sustainable, relationship-based to jointly develop new bus opportunities.
with Centro to Transform Bus Travel in contracts generating better capital returns, Cost efficiency and new fleet increased profit the West Midlands.
This embraces a good where service quality is valued by the customer.
contribution before pension accounting and relationship with our principal local authority, BSOG fuel duty impacts.
committing both sides to investment in fleet In the UK, lower fares on our express coach Spain saw profit fall due to the impact of and road prioritisation, fair pricing, provision of network resulted in 7% revenue growth through recession and rail competition on intercity customer real-time information and roll out of increased passenger volume: this created coach patronage, but nevertheless delivered smartcards.
Our town centre turnaround vehicle a better load factor per coach, which, with a normalised operating profit of 96 million, cleaning programme has driven customer improved yield management, significantly with its flexible operating model resulting satisfaction well above the network average.
increased profit for the division.
Bus grew in reduced kilometres operated and urban like-for-like commercial revenue by 2% Where our performance fails to meet customer growth in Spain and Morocco.
ALSAs third we carried almost a million more commercial expectations, we have embedded structured contract in Morocco Tangiers started passenger journeys and more customers solutions.
UK Bus implemented automatic in November.
com 07 Strategic Report: Group Chief Executives Review continued vehicle location to improve the consistency UK Bus delivered 9 million of efficiency External view Customers of services.
Punctuality improved by 7% savings to help mitigate headwinds from and our high frequency services in the Black fuel prices, lower fuel duty rebates and the Country are amongst the most punctual in impact of pension accounting changes.
Bus customer complaints are down included reducing lost mileage by managing a fifth.
UK Coach created a programme to congestion using realtime location information, empower customer service staff at coach together with savings in engineering, stations to resolve customer issues there and procurement and overhead costs.
then, ensuring the customer gets safely to their Alongside strong revenue growth, UK Coach destination in the event of service problems.
delivered 7 million of cost savings, with an In Morocco, we analysed the Agadir network overhaul of the route network, consolidating which we started up in 2010 and identified routes and reducing some frequencies, whilst significant improvements which have better expanding new services such as at Luton met customer needs and driven a 32% Airport.
Productivity in owned operations In mountain regions like La Alpujarra, increase in total ridership.
improved with the closure of the Crawley with small and scattered communities depot, whilst streamlining of third party We deliver great value for money in our fares and very difficult communications, the operations produced efficiency gains for for passengers.
UK Coach cut prices in 2012 service provided by ALSA coaches is vital.
both ourselves and our partners.
and drove a 6% increase in volume.
In 2013 Our transport routes provide daily access To strengthen operational excellence, we we cut prices again, delivering a further 9% for inhabitants to health and educational are implementing structured processes in growth in passengers.
In Spain, high speed services with complete ease.
And they each business using a recognised quality rail, a competitor on 20% of our intercity coach are particularly convenient for the elderly management framework.
These frameworks routes, introduced substantial discounts in and young people living in our region.
also help us replicate our success in our existing 2013.
We have responded by discounting Mara Teresa Blanco businesses in new market opportunities.
In coach fares and in 2014 we will invest further Mayor of rgiva, Granada in yield management to improve the value we 2013, c2c was awarded the maximum 5 star deliver.
In UK Bus, our roll out of smartcard rating by the European Foundation for Quality products allows customers to get even better Management EFQM.
This has been a key value services.
component of our success in delivering the UKs best performing franchise, whilst also being Cost efficiency recognised in our German and UK rail bids.
We have grown core non-rail operating profit to 185.5 million in 2013 through revenue growth Our values and cost efficiency.
We have delivered 30 We continue to support operational excellence million of cost efficiency and synergy, a 2% through our focus on our core values safety, reduction in our cost base, which was delivered customers, people and community.
Employee through a structured review of all controllable engagement is strong across the Group, costs.
In future we will target to reduce annual supported by formal training programmes costs by 1% in real terms: drive down costs such as Master Driver, which accredits through synergy, productivity and use of drivers to key standards and provides nontechnology: reconfigure networks to deliver monetary rewards for exceptional performance.
efficiency: and secure procurement savings.
North America reported a record level of 89% In 2013, achievements included: employee satisfaction, up for the third year in a row.
I would personally like to acknowledge In North America we completed the the efforts and commitment of our employees successful integration of Petermann, securing in helping to achieve our customer service and annualised saving of $10 million through safety improvements.
I am also delighted with procurement, insurance and overhead the progress of our Community programmes, savings.
Our GPS-based Compass system including 2,400 young people helped by our has matched driving time to payroll and UK initiative to support the further education customer invoicing, delivering $3 million of of disadvantaged students and a US$4 million efficiencies.
We are standardising processes commitment to community support in North at each customer service centre CSC to America.
We are proud to be the first company improve quality and efficiency and have to sign the UK Governments Corporate centralised back office processes.
Covenant that supports Armed Forces ALSA reduced network kilometres in Spain personnel, including helping their return by 3% in 2013, showing the flexibility of the to private sector employment.
intercity coach model to reduce capacity Safety remains the first priority in all our to match lower passenger demand.
Three years ago we introduced our Bilbao acquisition, completed in 2012, our Driving Out Harm programme and we improvements in scheduling, employee have made good progress in improving the management and stakeholder relations Groups safety culture and incident rate.
Over have delivered a significant turnaround two years we have halved safety incidents in performance.
08 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 for which we are responsible.
As we strive to We reduced net debt in 2013 by 82 million External view People improve our performance further, 2013 success to 746 million, a gearing ratio of 2.5 times has included: EBITDA, with lower debt offsetting the loss of NXEA earnings in 2012.
We continue to target recognition by the American National a gearing ratio of around two times at the end Standards Institute for safety in our School of 2014.
Bus business, the first industry operator We increased the Groups core non-rail ROCE to achieve this: to 11.1% in 2013.
We invested over 80 million record-breaking low levels of employee lost in net capital expenditure, mostly in new fleet.
time injuries LTIs for the Group, including We are targeting where we invest carefully a 38% reduction in UK Bus: we are renewing the UK Bus fleet, investing a 34% reduction in Signals Passed at Danger over one and a half times depreciation in SPAD at c2c: 2013 to introduce over 130 buses, leading to a major reduction in passenger incident more passengers travelling with us.
Our North claims, down 40% year-on-year in Coach VaLUENTiS works with National Express American School Bus business is implementing and 9% in Spain: and to conduct its annual employee surveys in a programme to use capital more efficiently, over 1 million in insurance premium savings the UK.
National Express has been diligent targeting lower capital conversion contracts, during the year.
in the timing and consistency of approach, not renewing existing contracts which dont with significant attention paid to results 2.
Superior cash and returns cover their cost of capital and reducing the and follow-up.
In 2013, National Express National Express is focused on cash number of spare vehicles required through recorded one of the highest engagement generation.
Our free cash flow pays dividends to more effective preventative maintenance, scores registered, with best in class scores shareholders, funds future growth and reduces which saw the spare ratio fall to 11% 2012: in two business units.
A strong cash flow and improving return 12%.
As a result of this, this division now on the capital we invest in the business will drive has a 22% ROA 2012: 17%.
Graeme Cohen, better returns for our shareholders.
Maintaining Graeme Cohen, Director, VaLUENTiS Ltd In Spain we invested 44 million in net capital a strong and flexible balance sheet gives us expenditure, broadly in line with depreciation.
We are benefiting from negotiating extensions At the start of 2013 we set out our goals to to fleet lives in urban bus contracts to help our drive superior cash and returns: austerity-impacted city council customers.
Growth in our capital-light businesses UK to generate 125-150 million of free cash Coach, Germany, UK Rail and US Transit are flow in 2013: an integral part of driving higher Group returns.
to maintain our gearing ratio at between 2 and 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA over 3.
Creating new business the medium term, but to reduce our gearing opportunities to around 2 times at the end of 2014: Our unique portfolio of international bus, coach to improve our core non-rail ROCE from and rail businesses gives National Express 10.6% that we achieved in 2012: and a significant opportunity to grow in selected to achieve a 20% pre-tax return on assets new markets.
In particular we have identified ROA in North America.
markets that are capital-light in nature, allowing We have been successful in 2013 in delivering us to drive future profitable growth, offering against these goals.
Our free cash flow the prospect of exciting additional returns was over 180 million.
The Group has now to shareholders.
generated almost 600 million of free cash flow In addition to organic growth in our existing UK, in the last four years.
Working capital reduced Spain and North America businesses, in 2013 by 31 million in 2013, as we further reduced we secured 1.8 billion of revenue from future contract receivables in Spain and North market opportunities.
We are currently working America.
Group operating cash conversion on a pipeline of opportunities worth over 10 was 129% of operating profit with the stand billion revenue, including UK Rail, German Rail out performer North America, generating and US Transit, as well as exploring interesting almost $200 million of operating cash flow, international markets and developing regular equivalent to repaying the cash cost of the coach services in Germany.
Petermann acquisition in just a year.
com 09 Strategic Report: Group Chief Executives Review continued During 2013 we developed the following Outlook External view Community new opportunities: We intend to grow profit across all of our nonrail businesses and develop our rail business Germany: we are now well established by winning new franchises.
We will continue in the German rail bidding market, with an to make progress against our three strategic experienced local team in place.
Focused on delivering operational targeting capital-light regional revenue excellence, our coach services in UK and Spain risk and gross cost contracts with prowill benefit from continued development of yield competition regional authorities.
In 2013 we management and greater retail distribution.
won two 15-year contracts to run the Rhine Bus will benefit from our focus on service Munsterland Express, expected to generate quality, network improvements and greater 70 million of annual revenue from the end use of technology in the UK and further new of 2015.
Mobilisation is now well underway.
contract opportunities in Spain and Morocco.
Using this successful credential and building North America School Bus will continue on our record of delivering high quality I am grateful to National Express for to improve its contract portfolio, driving service in c2c, we have prequalified for the being the first company to sign up to the capital returns and selectively adding bolt-on prestigious Berlin Ringbahn tender later in Corporate Covenant.
It is a great British acquisitions and conversion opportunities.
2014, as part of a bid pipeline of 18 contracts company recognising the significant All businesses will deliver a minimum 1% real with annual revenue of 1 billion.
Our rail contribution and sacrifice of our Armed reduction in costs, supported by unchanged operations are being supplemented by Forces and their families.
hedged fuel prices, driving margin progress our launch of city2city, a coach operation across the Group.
Mark Francois MP in Germany.
We are using the UK Coach Minister of State for the Armed Forces model of working with local coach partners With our focus on superior cash generation, to serve Munich, Stuttgart, Cologne, Frankfurt we have a robust financial platform which and Hamburg.
Our start-up in 2013 saw has underpinned an increased dividend to a normalised operating loss of 2.4 million shareholders.
In 2014 we are targeting further as we invest in marketing and promotion free cash flow of 150 million.
Our strong cash to develop this newly liberalised market.
generation and targeted capital deployment US Transit: Within 18 months, we have will further reduce net debt, improve returns built US$80 million of annual revenue to shareholders and fund our new business and are currently working on a revenue development programme.
In the last three pipeline of over US$200 million.
Focused months alone, we have submitted two rail on the Paratransit, Shuttle and Fixed Route tenders, successfully bid for two bolt-on segments, we have won five contracts acquisitions, begun bus operations in Tangiers targeted in smaller, lower risk markets.
and submitted contract tenders in Spain The industry is typically capital-light, and North America Transit.
We expect good with publicly funded fleet investment.
progress from our 10 billion pipeline of capitalUK Rail: having secured the extension of light bid opportunities, securing new contracts, c2c to September 2014, we are bidding concessions and business opportunities selectively within a programme of significant to enhance shareholder value.
rail refranchising in the UK.
As the UKs best performing franchise operator, we are pleased that quality is a factor in bid Dean Finch evaluation.
Having prequalified for three Group Chief Executive tenders during the year, we have now 27 February 2014 submitted the Essex Thameside and Crossrail bids and expect to submit our ScotRail bid in April 2014. International opportunities: we expect public transport to grow significantly in the medium term, through liberalisation and the development of infrastructure in emerging economies.
Building on ALSAs success developing the Moroccan market, we have invested in a bid team to explore selected opportunities which leverage National Express strengths in international bus, coach and rail markets, where the risk is appropriate and capital requirements generally light.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
