Strategic Report w w ww w ww w w. 888holdingsplc.. 888holdingsplc.. 888holdingsplc.
c ccom om om Chief Executives Review A record-breaking year for 888.
Brian Mattingley Chief Executive Officer 2013 Overview Market Overview 2013 was a very busy but also exceptionally rewarding year The online gaming market is dynamic and fast-growing.
I am delighted to report that we have delivered Growth over the coming years will continue to be driven by record-breaking revenue: increased our profitability: remained a combination of customers responding to innovative games highly cash generative and delivered greater returns to our that deliver a richer entertainment experience, the growing shareholders through a 56% increase to the dividend.
use of mobile devices that improve accessibility, increased confidence in secure low-cost payment mechanisms and an Our operational achievements in 2013 are equally impressive.
expanding customer demographic, partly driven by regulatory We continued to deliver product innovation, ensuring that our trends that are opening up more markets to online gaming.
customers are provided with the most enjoyable games in the safest possible environment.
We made further developments It is forecast that the value of the global online gaming market to our industry-leading smart marketing so that we are able will be approximately 31.5 billion by 2015, representing a to attract more players to the 888 brand and increase their CAGR of more than 9% from 2012.
This does not take account life time value.
We delivered excellent progress in our core of the additional opportunities being opened up in the United markets, continued to develop our offering in Italy and built States, which represents a potentially massive opportunity on momentum in Spain where we have quickly developed a for the industry.
Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey were leading market position.
We delivered another very strong regulated by the end of 2013 and other States are expected to performance in Casino and made further market share gains make significant progress towards regulation this coming year.
in Poker, advancing to number two in the PokerScout global As regulation continues, analysts predict that the US could rankings at the year end.
become the largest online gaming market in the world.
All of this was achieved whilst devoting significant energy In more mature markets such as the United Kingdom, and resources to preparing 888 for launch in the US market.
we anticipate that there will be further consolidation I am incredibly proud to say that 888 is the only operator given the advantages of scale, brand and technology currently present in all three regulated states as we execute that larger operators can employ in a more competitive our strategy in what is potentially the largest online gaming environment.
This trend will be reinforced by the planned market globally.
This remarkable achievement is testament to introduction of a Point of Consumption Tax in the UK, due to the strength of our product, technology and marketing but take effect from December 2014. also, and most crucially, the hard work, dedication and talent Online mobile gaming on portable devices such as tablets of our team.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank and smart-phones is growing strongly reflecting consumers each of them for their fantastic efforts during the year.
increasing comfort using their mobile phones and tablets for I am delighted with 888s achievements in 2013 and look a wide range of products and services including banking and forward to the year ahead with continued confidence.
Mobile devices will account for a much greater proportion of revenue as customers complement or replace their PC-based experience.
Our Strategy 888 is one of the worlds most popular online gaming entertainment and solutions providers.
We have been at the forefront of the industry for more than 15 years by providing customers with market leading products that are localised to enable players to enjoy the games they want, in the languages they speak, in a safe and secure environment.
The Group is structured into two business lines: B2C, with our market leading 888 brands and B2B, conducted as Dragonfish business.
This structure allows the Group to leverage its technological, product, marketing and analytical strengths across B2C and B2B.
This maximises their benefits and allows 888 to compete successfully with and surpass our competition in both established and newer markets.
Value of online gaming market in terms of gross win.
Source: H2 Gambling Capital 2014 Stock Code: 888 03 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chief Executives Review There are clear opportunities in our global markets.
We are well placed to deliver growth across all areas of our business, generating value for our shareholders as the well-established trend towards more international regulation continues and new technologies evolve.
Our strategy to achieve this is made up of five key pillars: Growth and Development Of Our Core Products We are focused on the growth and development of our core product groups which are Casino, Poker, Bingo and, to a lesser extent, Sport, where we work with a partner.
These products are delivered via our B2C offering under 888s own brands and to our B2B clients, through Dragonfish.
Best-In-Class B2C Offer Our B2C offering remains our core area and the bedrock of the success of the business.
We continue to invest in and focus on ensuring that we deliver an unsurpassed customer experience by developing best-in-class products, maintaining excellence in customer service and ensuring we deliver a real value-for-money proposition to our customers.
This together with our advanced modeling and analytics competencies that underpin our product development and CRM functions, help us achieve our objectives: to increase customer numbers, further develop brand loyalty and enhance customer lifetime value.
Partner Of Choice through Dragonfish Our B2B Offer Dragonfish is 888s B2B arm which offers clients best in class Total Gaming Services solutions that are tested vigorously to meet the regulatory requirements of the different jurisdictions where they are delivered.
The quality of our offering, driven by our continuous investment in developing leading gaming platforms, means that we are fast establishing ourselves as the partner of choice in both regulated and newly regulating markets.
This has been evidenced by the key strategic deals we have signed in 2013 alongside the deal we signed with Caesars Interactive Entertainment in 2012 enabling 888 to become the only online gaming operator with a presence in all three regulated US states.
Driving Margin Growth through Operational Efficiencies We remain focused on improving our margins by maximising operational efficiencies and driving volume.
2013 saw us continue to deliver progress in this area with further operational efficiencies driven across the business resulting in our Adjusted EBITDA margin improving to 18.9% 2012: 17.8%.
Expansion in Regulated Markets We are focused on developing our presence in locally regulated markets.
A key advantage of having our own technology, product development, marketing, analytics and CRM teams working closely together, is that it allows us to control the key drivers for our success.
This ensures that we have the agility and skills to successfully and efficiently launch in newly regulated markets.
2013 has seen us build further momentum in the European markets of the UK, Spain and Italy and we are delighted with the progress we have continued to make, building strong market positions, especially in Spain.
We classify the regulation of markets into three categories: 04 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 Strategic Report www.
com Developmental These are Jurisdictions where there is a Our successful launch in the regulated US market to date is strong indication that at some time in the near future the testament to our product, technology and marketing as well market will open.
Here we talk to local industry participants as the hard work, dedication and talent of our team who have with a view to forming partnerships to jointly explore been able to meet the complex regulatory requirements in opportunities.
The US continues to be a primary focus each state to pressing deadlines.
We have developed close for us and we believe our strong position in those states working relationships with the various regulatory bodies in already regulated, combined with our focused strategy the US and these relationships, along with the experience and established partnerships, position us well to take full and skills we have developed to date, mean that we are well advantage of the opportunities as regulation develops.
positioned to exploit the US opportunity as further states open up to online gaming.
Formational These are markets where governments have announced regulation and are working towards a framework.
In March 2013, 888 completed a major step in its US strategy Here we decide on a trading strategy, start dialogue with by entering into a joint venture agreement with global local partners either for B2C or B2B tie ups, and engage with investment firm Avenue Capital Group through one of its regulators and governments to assist in shaping the industry affiliates, to form AAPN Holdings LLC.
formed for the purposes of collaborating and capitalising on 888s and Avenues respective strengths and competencies Implementational These are markets where regulation has in order to carry out legalised Internet based gambling been introduced and we have already commenced trading.
operations in the United States.
Pursuant to the agreement, In 2013, we made excellent further progress and built strong Avenue committed to finance AAPN and its affiliates, while positions in both Spain and Italy, both of which have recently 888 committed to provide its operational expertise, services regulated.
In the second half of 2013, we commenced and software.
In November 2013, one of 888s subsidiaries operations in Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey in the US and received an authorization from the regulators in the State have made good progress at this early stage.
of New Jersey that enabled it to begin provision of Internet based gambling services in New Jersey, branded with the US Development Strategy and Current Alliances 888Poker and 888Casino brands, under the authority of the The US market is a demanding environment with strict regulatory license issued to Caesars Interactive Entertainment.
regulatory requirements that vary from state to state, however the opportunities are potentially vast.
Our joint venture agreement crucially allows our US operations to make a positive contribution to Group revenue from the moment we launched, limiting our capital requirements and giving 888 the flexibility and financial capability to launch in more markets globally as they regulate.
