Governance page 44 Chairman and Chief Executive Officers joint review The Company continued to deliver on its strategic goals in2013and remains focused on creating shareholder  activities.
2013 was another year of significant operational and strategic We made two new exploration discoveries, Mkizi and Ngisi, which, progress for Ophir.
The Company enters 2014 with the largest along with the appraisal results, increased the total discovered discovered resource base and the strongest financial position resource on Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to 15.7 TCF at year-end.
This volume inits history, well placed todeliver a potentially transformational will underpin a minimum two, 5-million tonne per annum LNG Train exploration programme and capitalise on new opportunities development along with domestic market commitments under the toenhance the portfolio andadd value.
PSCs, and provides encouragement for a potential third LNG Train.
We have made good progress on project planning for the LNG Delivering on our clear and focused strategy development with the preferred site for the onshore processing and Our strategy and business model are straightforward and remain liquefaction facilities having been submitted to the Government unchanged.
Our aim is to create shareholder value through the ofTanzania for approval.
exploration and appraisal phase of the E&P cycle and then at the appropriate time monetise that value.
We demonstrated this during Through the drilling success in Tanzania, Ophir added 254mmboe 2013 with the announcement of the sale of 20% ofour interest in to the Companys net 2C contingent resources with a three-year 1 Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania to Pavilion Energy for US$1.288 billion.
average finding cost of US$0.90 boe.
This transaction was the culmination of several years of hard work, Equatorial Guinea FLNG moving forward technical achievement and industry leadership.
The project saw In 2013 Ophir agreed to progress a Floating LNG FLNG project Ophir enter a then unfashionable play in East Africa and achieve on Block R with the Government of Equatorial Guinea.
This material exploration success to the point where the discovered led to preparations for a three-well exploration and appraisal gas resources are now on the cusp of commercial development.
programme on the block that is planned for mid-2014.
In February In addition, we executed an extensive farm-out agreement with 2014 we announced an agreement with Petrofac to provide 2 OMV across our acreage in Gabon, and relinquished acreage in 3 upstream development services and that we had also received Madagascar, Congo, Ghana and Kenya as we continue to focus several proposals for the provision of the FLNG vessel and related investment on areas that can add the highest value for shareholders.
We are confident that 2014 will see continued Further drilling success and resource additions in Tanzania progress in both the resource base and commercialisation of During 2013 Ophir drilled eight exploration and appraisal wells.
Six BlockRs substantial gas resources.
of these were successful, with the two disappointments being the 2014 represents a potentially transformational year Starfish-1 exploration well offshore Ghana and the Mlinzi Mbali-1 withthedrillbit exploration well in Block 7 Tanzania.
All appraisal wells in Tanzania Interpretation of the substantial number of 3D seismic surveys we either confirmed or increased the discovered gas resources in acquired across the portfolio in 2012 and early 2013 has allowed Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
We undertook successful appraisal drilling with us to firm up a high-impact exploration and appraisal drilling our Joint Venture partner BG Group on the Jodari, Mzia and Pweza programme in 2014 which will see up to 11 wells drilled.
Further discoveries, which included gas flow tests on all three fields that drilling is planned in Tanzania on Blocks 1, 3 and 4 and we will also came in ahead of expectations.
These results have fide-risked drill a well on the Tende prospect on the East Pande licence, which is the commerciality of the resource base and are likely tolead primarily prospective for gas but could have the potential for liquids.
tosignificant cost savings on the upstream development due toareduction in the number of planned development wells.
In West Africa, a multi-well campaign has commenced offshore Gabon.
Although the first well on the pre-salt play, Padouck Deep-1, has been commercially unsuccessful, it has reduced a number 1 On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement ofplay risks providing encouragement for further exploration.
to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
This transaction isunconditional and subject to completion.
Thiswill be followed by the Affanga Deep-1 well on an extension 2 On 18 December 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement to the Ogoou Delta play and then another pre-salt test, Okala-1.
to sell to OMV a 10% interest in each of the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks and a Having made progress on the development of our discovered 30%interest in each of the Gnondo and Manga Blocks.
Completion of this transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
resource base in Equatorial Guinea, we plan three more wells 3 On 20 February 2014, Ophir announced that it had signed a non-binding in2014 to add further resource, to appraise the existing discoveries Letterof Intent with Petrofac to provide services as operator of the proposed gasdevelopment up to the FID.
and to test the deeper liquids play on Block R. 10 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Board page 46 Board diversity Board experience No.
of Board members Capital Male 8 Markets Female 2 Legal & Commercial Financial & Accounting Oil & Gas Industry 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 In 2013 we secured access to two drilling rigs under long-term Disappointing share price performance contract with options to extend: these being the Deepsea Metro I Whilst 2013 was a year of considerable achievement for the drillship for our programmes in Tanzania and potentially Kenya, and Company, it was not without its disappointments, including the Vantage Titanium Explorer for our programmes in Gabon and the unsuccessful Starfish-1 and Mlinzi Mbali-1 wells.
If successful, Ophir has additional slots under inTanzania we were unable to reach agreement with the operator option on both rigs to accelerate appraisal and further exploration.
BG Group to drill the high-impact 1C prospect after seismic interpretation failed to fide-risk its potential.
We delivered two Ophir continued to broaden its exploration portfolio in 2013 material commercial transactions Pavilion Energy and OMV deals with new blocks provisionally awarded in Gabon, subject to but we were not able to farm-down our interest in Block 7 ahead the successful negotiation of PSCs, which cover the emerging of drilling.
Drilling in Gabon was also delayed as we were unable to deepwater play outboard of our existing acreage and more secure a drilling unit as early as expected and the first well in 2014, recently in February 2014 with entry into acreage offshore Padouck Deep-1, has been unsuccessful.
4 the Seychelles inthe Indian Ocean.
Although we believe our accomplishments during the year Capital management significantly outweighed these disappointments, the sector, In March 2013 Ophir raised US$837.6 million through a Placing especially exploration-focused stocks is currently out of favour with and Rights Issue and ended the year with net cash balances of investors.
Ophir was not alone amongst our peers in suffering a US$667 million.
This excludes the proceeds from the sale of a year of negative market returns and we are clearly disappointed 5 20% interest inBlocks 1, 3 and 4 to Pavilion Energy.
with our share price performance.
The Board and management A key element of our strategy is to maintain a strong balance remain focused on operational delivery and executing our business sheet and Ophir is well funded both to meet its 2014 commitments model, which we believe will ultimately reward shareholders over and to capture new opportunities to create shareholder value.
Commitment to Health, Safety and the Environment In summary, 2013 was an extremely active period for Ophir A resounding commitment to Health, Safety and the Environment both operationally and commercially, with record net discovered remains at the core of our business and it is pleasing to report that resources, continued success with the drillbit and the partial in 2013 we had only one minor Lost Time Injury.
Ophir continues to sale of our interests in Tanzania underpinning the shareholder support sustainable CSR programmes in the countries we operate, value created since our formation.
While the progress we have and we value highly our reputation as an integral, positive part made in growing the net asset value of the firm has clearly not ofthe communities that host our personnel and operations.
been reflected in the performance of the share price, we thank shareholders for their patience and their ongoing support and Strengthening the team our staff for their hard work and dedication during the year.
During 2013 we added significant further expertise throughout TheBoard looks forward to 2014 with enthusiasm and anticipation the Company, particularly at an operational and technical level.
as we embark on one of the most extensive and dramatic We also strengthened the Board at an executive and non-executive drilling programmes undertaken by a European E&P company level, with four new members.
Jonathan Taylor, a co-founder of inrecenttimes.
the Company, stepped down from his executive and Board roles.
Jonathan has played a pivotal part in the first chapter of Ophirs Mr Nicholas Smith Dr Nick Cooper growth and the Board thanks him for his invaluable efforts over Chairman Chief Executive Officer the past eight years.
4 On 4 March 2014, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement with WHL Energy to acquire a 75% operated interest in Blocks PEC-5B 1 and PEC-5B 2.
5 On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
