Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 14 Chief Executives Statement The Group delivered another strong performance in the yearwith profits rising 14.8% to 48.2 million.
The Group delivered another strong America fell by 4.2% to 91.0 million performance in the year with revenues 2012: 95.0 million.
This reflects some rising 4.0% to 350.8 million 2012: weakness in US government-funded 337.3million.
Organic revenue growth research markets, partially offset by a on a constant currency basis was 4.8%.
It is not Adjusted profits before tax grew 14.8% yet clear to what extent this was the result to48.2 million 2012: 42.0 million.
of sequestration of government spend in Adjusted operating profit margin the US, which may call for a reduction in increased to 14.2% 2012: 12.5%.
We Adjusted earnings per share rose to currently have revenues of approximately 68.3pence 2012: 61.6pence and the $30 million from the US government.
Sales Group ended the year with a cash balance in Asia increased by 8.0% to 123.0 million of 39.2 million 2012: 35.1 million, after 2012: 113.9 million, representing 35% funding the acquisition of Asylum Research oftotal Group revenues 2012: 34%.
The Jonathan Flint Asylum in December 2012. performance of our new Indian subsidiary was particularly pleasing, delivering ChiefExecutive Asylum, based in California, is a leading orders growth of 56%, albeit from a low provider of scanning probe microscopes base.
The high brightness LED market, which are used to capture images and which provides a significant growth In summary characterise the properties of surfaces opportunity in Asia, stabilised during the and structures down to the atomic scale.
year after a period of softening demand.
Our strong performance is Its products are used by academic and industrial customers for a wide range of With some regional variations, our research madepossible by our continued materials and bioscience applications.
markets continue to be strong.
Constant investment in commercially Asylum has been combined with currency sales in our Nanotechnology driven R&D.
ourNanoAnalysis business in our Tools sector grew by 9.4% organically in Nanotechnology Tools sector.
We believe that there is structural The percentage of revenues is integrating well, performing according growth in demand for nanotechnology generated from products launched to the acquisition assumptions and tools over the medium term.
Operating contributing to the acquisition related part margins in Nanotechnology Tools improved in the last three years, our Vitality of the 14Cubed revenue growth objectives.
to 12.5% 2012: 11.2% due to good progress Index, remained healthy at 41%.
on our Business Improvement Plan in The acquisitions made in 2011 are also NanoAnalysis and Plasma Technology.
We are building on our strong contributing to growth.
Platinum Medical position in emerging and fast Imaging Platinum has performed well, As previously reported, industrial markets growing economies and we securing a number of multi-year service continue to be soft with reported sales contracts, and the integration of Omniprobe down 3.1%.
On a constant currency organic continue to target growth.
into our NanoAnalysis business is now basis, sales in the Industrial Products complete.
Omicron NanoTechnology sector grew by 1.4%.
This reflects general Omicron saw poor market conditions in the uncertainty about the economic first half of the year and underperformed environment which is causing customers against expectations.
Performance in todelay investment in key technology thesecond half improved significantly capital goods.
During this period of market asmanagement changes took effect.
retrenchment, we have concentrated on Thispart of the business now has a further improving business efficiency strong long term order book.
which has resulted in a 26% increase in profit in the Industrial Products sector, Sales in Europe grew 9.5% to 126.2 million bringing the margin to 13.9% 2012: 10.7%.
2012: 115.3 million helped by sales to ITER, an international collaboration project to Innovation remains at the core of the develop carbon free energy.
Our strong performance is has negligible exposure to expenditure made possible by our continued investment from the Southern European economies.
Our R&D cash Russia and Sweden delivered particularly spend this year was 25.1 million 2012: strong performances.
Sales in North 23.7million, an increase of 5.9%.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 15 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 The diversity of our products and markets has continued to drive the growth of the business.
Our core markets The percentage of revenues generated from products launched in the last three years, our Vitality Index, Market revenue Market revenue remained healthy at 41%.
43% 18% We are now in the final year of our 14Cubed plan which sets a target for achieving an average compound annual sales growth rate of 14% in the years 2011 to 2014 and a return on sales of 14% Research and academia Life sciences by 2014.
We remain focused on meeting Our largest market sector includes A growing market sector includes our three year objectives supported research into nanotechnology thesupport and service of MR and CT bythe strength and diversity of the applications, new materials, data imaging equipment and the supply of business and our exposure to protection, pharmaceuticals, security, superconducting wire for MRI scanners.
renewable energies, and next generationquantum computing.
We operate in three sectors: Nanotechnology Tools, Industrial Products, and Service.
Details of thesecan be found on pages 18 to 21.
Market revenue Market revenue People Oxford Instruments relies on the skills 12% 11% and expertise of its people worldwide.
We recognise the importance of ensuring a sustainable business through a strategy of managing, developing and recruiting people who support our Company values Metals construction Semiconductors IT and contribute to our growth.
We seek Our customers span global industries A market that is growing significantly in to ensure increased diversity amongst frommetals, alloy manufacturing, Asia and includes semiconductor electronics, our workforce to utilise fully the talent steelfoundries and scrap recycling to Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS, pool available to us.
I am proud to automotive, aerospace, precious compound semiconductor materials, leadsuch an innovative and talented metalsand cement.
workforce and I thank them for their continued contribution to our success.
Outlook We are now two months into the final year of the three year period covered Market revenue Market revenue by the 14Cubed objectives.
Although the year has started slowly, we are 10% 6% focused on completing our 14Cubed plan and delivering further progress inthe years to come.
Our R&D plan continues to deliver new products to the market which take market share Energy Environment from our competitors.
We are building New forms of energy are attracting As one of the major challenges of the 21st on our strong position in emerging and significant investment from both Century, preservation of our environment fast growing economies and we continue government and the private sector.
Our markets include tools to target growth, both organically Weareinvolved in the search for for: high brightness LEDs: detection of andthrough bolt-on acquisitions.
sustainable energy ITER, solar hazardous substances in soil: recycling: technologies, oil and gas exploration and agriculture and food.
Jonathan Flint Chief Executive 11 June 2013
