CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PayPoint has delivered earnings growth in line with market expectations.
Our retail CashOut schemes grow businesses UK & Ireland, Romania and Collect have grown and remain highly Traditional PayPoint payment transactions, profitable and cash generative.
net and PayByPhone has energy prepayment, utility payments and made good progress.
mobile top-ups involve consumers paying cash in at retailers.
PayPoint can now offer clients The essence of the groups capability is the processing of high volume consumer the ability to pay cash out to their customers.
transactions, whether payments or value added services like parcels through a flexible This is used for the DWP Simple Payment platform, adding value to clients in selected vertical markets.
Payment transactions are service for benefit and pension payments, generally low value and embrace retail, internet and mobile technologies and include utilities including British Gas and EDF Energy money flowing both to and from the consumer.
We add value by providing relevant and most recently by local authorities for additional services to retailers and online merchants across different geographies.
Providing emergency benefit payments, for which greater consumer convenience is core to our proposition.
We are able to grow the they have taken responsibility from central business through selling to more clients in vertical markets, by addressing more verticals, by government.
Retailers earn commission on engaging more retailers and more merchants, driving more consumers to use our services.
these schemes and, with the introduction of single daily settlement, will benefit from more convenient cash management as CashOut Strategy sums will be deducted from direct debits taken Our strategy, which remains unchanged, has four key elements: for other transactions.
In addition, consumers Breadth of payments capability are likely to spend some of the money they get The acceptance of a broad range of payments cash, cards, e-money, etc.
multiple channels retail, internet and mobile phone Strength in vertical markets PayPoints CashOut scheme has been a Targeting sectors with high volume, recurring consumer payments real success for us in previous years and has Value added content services proven to be the most convenient way for our Providing additional content or services to the payment channels and chosen vertical customers to receive their rebates.
markets to create differentiation Jackie Kelly, Value Delivery Manager at Geographic reach British Gas Identifying regions with attractive payment dynamics to create value through exporting our know-how PayPoint has succeeded in introducing this broad payment hub capability to clients in key vertical markets energy, telecoms and media, financial services, parking transport, public sector social housing, retail and gaming leisure, with the ability to process payments using the consumers preferred method of payment and channel.
The delivery of payments between consumers and our clients encompasses transaction authorisation, processing, clearing and settlement and interfacing to banks, card schemes networks and other financial intermediaries.
PayPoint also provides value added content and services within PayPoint Romania expands each channel, to differentiate the PayPoint proposition from those of its competitors.
payment schemes PayPoint in Romania is now working with In our retail channels, differentiation is achieved through providing retailers with a broad the majority of the national utility companies range of retail services, including ATMs, credit and debit card processing, parcel collections in the country and, as their customers have and returns service, SIM cards and international money transfer.
The high quality of service become accustomed to paying their bills at delivery to retailers is also critical to differentiation.
PayPoint, many of the countrys regional water and sanitation service providers have signed In the internet channel, differentiation to merchants is driven through a widening base up with PayPoint to enable them to pay their of acquiring bank relationships increasingly in different geographies and payment types, water bills at the same time.
Nova ApaServ together with the quality of our fraud screening and reporting products.
Company in Botoani county, SC VITAL SA in Maramures county, S. C. Salubris S. A. which Our mobile channel, delivered through PayByPhone, will similarly drive differentiation provides public sanitation services in Iasi, and through its ability to leverage our cash retail payment capability and internet payment The Targoviste Dambovita Water Company, services, combined with improving the consumer experience.
a regional operator of water systems and sanitation in Dambovita county, have all Technology introduced the PayPoint option to their Technology is at the heart of our service delivery and differentiation in all our businesses customers during the year.
and we plan to continue to increase spending in this area.
We see opportunities to integrate our payment channel technologies to provide better, more efficient and complete As well as providing high quality services, solutions to our clients across a common platform, irrespective of whether their customer we also wanted to reduce the time people in has paid in a store, online or on their phone.
Improving reporting to merchants and Maramures spend paying bills, so being able upgrading retailer management systems will enhance our ability to provide customers with to pay them in local neighbourhood stores a unique service and will contribute to growth.
The reporting system under development safely and quickly is definitely a great for online merchants offers opportunity for extension to other clients across all distribution advantage for them.
As we invest in this more integrated solution, we also plan to consolidate our Geza Gasparik, General Manager of SC VITAL SA data centres in two hosted sites.
Growth and prospectslo PayPoint is well positioned, in attractive markets, to benefit from its strength in multichannel payments and retail services.
The growth in convenience retailing, online and mobile commerce is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Our position within vertical markets, including energy, telecoms media, financial services, parking transport, gaming leisure and public sector social housing, provides us with a platform to benefit from the investments being made by our clients and prospects.
As businesses seek to serve their customers across a wider variety of distribution channels, offering many payment options, we are well placed, with the breadth of our payment services and Collect, to serve their needs.
2 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Online support for Vertical markets The Grand National Our clients are a Whos Who of consumer services companies in the countries we The Grand National is watched by an estimated serve.
Their needs to innovate and use new delivery channels should continue to 500 million people worldwide.
In the UK alone, drive opportunities for us in future.
In the UK, the energy sector continues to grow its as much as two-thirds of the adult population prepayment base and is now investing in next generation smart meters that should places a bet, with an estimated 150m in further strengthen the demand to serve prepayment customers, not just for cash in total being wagered on the result.
Therefore, store, but also across our web and mobile channels.
Government is mandating that all the event is business-critical for PayPoint.
nets domestic gas and electricity meters should be smart by 2020. online gaming clients.
In the hour before the event, PayPoint saw an uplift in its total In recent years, PayPoint UK has added public sector capability to its portfolio.
Welfare transactions from the whole gaming industry reform, such as the Universal Credit and the related devolution of some benefits to of over 91% compared to the same hour on a the local authority level, is likely to have a major impact on the requirements of central usual Saturday.
At peak, we were processing government, local authorities and social housing associations, where we are already more than four transactions a second.
Parking and transport authorities and operators are also keen to adopt smart technology, mobility and multi-channel delivery, the very areas in which we deliver.
Online gaming is one of the most demanding sectors for a payment gateway.
A highly Retail global business, it requires a very high level of PayPoints market leadership in retail payments and services remains at the core of security and fraud management, a wide range its success.
We continue to be strongly differentiated through the unique quality and of payment methods and the ability to manage breadth of our client base and retail coverage.
We contract with the best convenience the outflow of winnings as well as the inflow retailers and seek to extend the range of payments and services that we provide, of deposits.
Our clients value enormously the delivering new retail schemes that drive footfall and commission earnings to our retail reliability of our operation during this critical partners, securing their continuing commitment.
period for them: Convenience retailing is evolving from its former guise as a secondary top-up shopping The Grand National is one of the most destination into a principal choice for many busy consumers looking for quality products important events of the year for us, so we rely and services as conveniently as possible.
The sector has benefitted from substantial on PayPoint.
net to provide us with flawless investment in premises and upgraded ranges of local shops as a result of the entry of service, capable of handling the huge spike in the major grocery multiples and symbol groups.
PayPoint has been at the core of this volumes while maintaining the high level of transformation by being the principal innovator of in-store payments and services, security and fraud management that we enjoy helping local stores to become community hubs where consumers visit more often and during the rest of the year.
for a greater range of activities.
We intend to build further on our contribution to the Denis Kelly, CEO, Stan James breadth and value of the convenience retail offer to local communities.
An important recent retail service innovation builds on PayPoints success in providing cash to consumers in-store for government disbursements and service rebates, in Leading the way with addition to the ATM cash withdrawals which we have provided for much longer.
Not contactless payments only does CashOut provide a further service offering by retailers to their local community, Having been the first cash payments network it also reduces the amount of cash held in store.
With the proposed introduction of in the UK to introduce contactless credit and single daily settlement, where daily direct debits on retailers are reduced by the amount debit card payments, PayPoint now operates of CashOut and ATM withdrawals, retailers will benefit from reduced cash banking and more than 4,000 contactless payment transaction costs, further differentiating our services to them.
We do not just seek to terminals, the largest private sector retail serve consumers through our retailers, we also support our retailers with a broad range network in the UK.
of services that support their own trading, including card payments, cash machines, international money transfer, promotional offers and SIM card distribution.
The number of contactless debit and credit cards in the UK passed 32 million at the end These retail services boost the bottom line of our retail partners and improve our retail of 2012.
Retailers carry no financial risk and yield.
We have increased our field sales force by half since the latter part of the prior year.
benefit from a transaction fee that is lower They will help us find further retail sites, which by virtue of improved uptake of retail than for debit cards, whilst consumers benefit services, should not dilute our retail yield.
There is substantial opportunity to increase the from a faster transaction, the convenience of retailer base, including ATMs.
This will require more capital expenditure than previously not having to enter their PIN and from not expected and, taken together with other capital plans, will result in higher capital spend having to carry cash.
As the range of locations where customers International can use them grows in taxis, restaurants, In Romania, we have made good progress in growing profitability.
Cash payment is coffee shops, sports centres, buses, car parks dominant across all demographics and we have nearly all the major consumer service and on vending machines customers are not companies as our clients.
Our market share in clients we serve c. 12% is increasing but, only getting used to using their contactless encouragingly for future growth, is still at relatively low levels.
We aim to extend our cards but are increasingly expecting to be client relationships to become the preferred and more exclusive supplier.
Recently, we able to use them almost anywhere they spend displaced the Post Office in the county of Iasi, in the Moldova region, from the provision their money.
Because of the low value limit of bill payment for EON GAZ, which we will seek to replicate across the region and with for contactless transactions, they are ideal for other clients.
The retail services opportunity in Romania is at an earlier stage, with international money transfer progressing well.
We expect new retail services to come to market in the medium term and to continue to grow our outlet numbers and retail yield.
The potential for further international expansion will be reviewed this year.
4 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued PayByPhone reaches out to Collect Our most exciting new retail service in recent years has been Collect, a 50:50 joint New York venture with Yodel.
This service enables consumers to collect and return their home Following the recent introduction of shopping parcels from any of over 5,250 stores within the PayPoint network.
The PayByPhone in Seattle and New Castle, NJ, service is now in its fourth year and has an annual parcel run rate of over 9 million, with New York City has launched a PayByPhone significant growth potential.
The service has recently attracted new competition, but cashless parking pilot in the Bronx.
The pilot we have a lead over our new competitors, none of which come close to the breadth allows motorists to pay for parking via the of coverage or volume of parcels that Collect provides through a convenience retail PayByPhone app, the internet or by telephone channel.
Collect continues our successful strategy of providing consumers and clients along 18 blocks and at the Belmont Municipal with more convenient and cost effective alternatives to the Post Office.
This year should Parking Field.
There are no additional fees see a substantial expansion in our consumer send volumes with the launch of a faster or changes to parking rates, while motorists service delivery option as an enhancement to the existing 3-5 day service.
Collect is will also be warned via email or text message already proving attractive to consumers and small traders and is integrated into the when their time is about to expire, enabling Amazon and eBay platforms.
them to pay for additional time.
PayByPhone is also working with the New York Police e&m commerce Department, whose traffic enforcement agents Our e&m commerce businesses, PayPoint.
net in the internet channel and PayByPhone in use handheld scanners to enter license plate the mobile channel, operate in highly competitive markets which have attracted heavy numbers, which are instantly cross-checked investment from a wide range of market players ranging from global giants all the way against received payments.
down the scale to many innovative small start-ups.
In this context, PayPoint has handled tens of millions of payments annually across both web and mobile channels, and is still You can purchase parking time you will growing.
However, margin erosion in PayPoint.
net and the continuing need to invest in receive a text message or email confirming PayByPhone in advance of revenues, have adversely affected profitability in the period your purchase.
You also get text or email under review.
In order to realise the full potential that these businesses present, we have warnings before your meter time expires and now put them under single management to position better our capability in this fast you can use PayByPhone to extend your meter changing market place and to benefit from potential cost synergies.
Both internet and time without ever going back to your car.
So mobile continue to be the highest growth areas of retail, displacing and complementing it really is everything you can think of to make traditional high street retailers.
PayPoint is applying focus to key vertical markets as we your life better.
aim to build successful capabilities, where we should be well rewarded and maintain a Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City loyal client and merchant base.
PayByPhone parking will continue to concentrate on metropolitan opportunities in the UK, France, USA, Canada and selected other big cities.
We have had recent success in Seattle, Paris suburbs, London and in New York with a trial, showing that this approach is helping us to secure the biggest available opportunities.
Our Westminster service is still amongst the most successful phone parking services in the world and we are the market Collect adding value for stores leader in our core markets of the UK and North America.
By offering Collect, retailers in the PayPoint network gain significant recurring footfall PayPoint.
net will continue to promote and develop its range of payment services, and commercial benefit as well as a valuable including connections to a broad range of acquirers, support of international gateways, edge over their local competitors.
The service sophisticated fraud screening, payment card industry data security standard compliance provides additional opportunities to raise and enhanced management reporting and control systems.
These support our customer loyalty and generate incremental positioning as a well-respected payment service provider.
We have a comprehensive sales over and above the commission earned service portfolio in the market and recognised strength in gaming and general from Collect.
net merchants and prospects look to add mobile payment capability, the closer integration with PayByPhone should enable us to be distinctively Research in 2013 showed that the average positioned with proven high volume products.
Collect store earns additional annual revenue of 2,712 as a direct result of offering the Consumers service.
Collect contributes 673 per annum, PayPoint has traditionally served consumers through our business to business B2B on average, in commission, with an additional relationships and we have remained a B2B, or B2B2C consumer, company in our 2,039 of income generated from in-store approach.
However, our innovation is taking us deeper into services which have a direct purchases by Collect customers.
For example, both Collect and PayByPhone have substantial consumer bases.
Almost two thirds 64% of customers had not used the store before using Collect.
In addition, the footfall from more than 11 million weekly transactions in PayPoint retail With 63% of customers stating that they outlets provides opportunity for enhanced consumer relationships.
PayPoint achieved an would use the store again for other purchases 82% brand awareness in our most recent BMRB survey and a 98% consumer satisfaction in addition to using Collect, and nearly result surveyed by Ipsos MORI a level in excess of most consumer service organisations.
50% of customers purchasing other items Our recently launched social networking activities have attracted bigger followings in a from the store, there are instant and lasting few months than many big name consumer service organisations have achieved in several benefits for participating stores.
These are strong foundations on which to build our consumer brand more directly.
of customers are using a mixture of Collect As we build our group capability going forward, we will be looking to extend our services, demonstrating the broad appeal of consumer base and to develop more value added propositions to increase our consumer the Collect product range.
yield, as well as our client and retailer yields.
In doing this, we should benefit from the strong consumer brand we have already developed.
PayPoint is one of the companies best placed to make further gains in the fast moving payment industry, particularly in e&m commerce, and has a market leading position in retail services, on which we intend to build.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 23 May 2013 4 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 5
