OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 09 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive Dear shareholders, Last year, in my first letter to you as Pearsons chiefexecutive, I wrote about the establishment of a clearPearson education strategy and its accelerated implementation.
That acceleration thetransformation of the company is now well underway.
Twelve months on, I am convinced that we started it not a moment too soon, and that the changes we need to make must go deeper, and happen faster, than I originally envisaged.
John Fallon, Chief executive of Pearson The global opportunity The long-term opportunity in global education is greater than ever.
Last year, the OECD reported By accelerating the thatpoor math and literacy skills limit access to transformation of Pearson better-paying and more-rewarding jobs.
People who are strong in these skills are not just wealthier and live we become more healthier lives, they are also more actively engaged in public life.
Nelson Mandela was right: education really confident of our ability is the most powerful weapon with which to change the world.
to seize that once in a As rapid advances in technology continue to disrupt generation opportunity the world of work, the economic value of education and skills will continue to increase.
Governments to become directly spend trillions of dollars per year on education and training: and, each year, the still rapidly growing middle accountable for helping class invests more of its own increasing wealth in the education of themselves and their children.
And yet, people make progress in the world fails to meet the learning needs of far too many of our fellow citizens.
One in five adults in todays their lives through learning.
world still lack the written communication skills they need to progress in life, 57 million children remain out of school, and many millions more are in education, but not really learning anything very much at all.
Pearson has a unique set of advantages with which to help meet this global demand for better education and skills, in part by applying technology to help tangibly improve learning outcomes.
And, by being better able to meet some of the biggest challenges in global education, we can build a stronger, more profitable and faster growing company.
10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive continued The transformation of our company To seize this opportunity, we need to accelerate our More urgently, the strategy now demands that we shift from mature to developing markets, from print to runthe company in a fundamentally different way, too.
digital products and from education inputs to services Early last year, we started the biggest restructuring with demonstrable learning outcomes.
For much of inthe companys recent history, to tilt us towards our the last decade, weve been implementing this strategy biggest growth opportunities, and by measuring by reshaping the company portfolio through everything we do in terms of impact in improving acquisitions and disposals and we continued this learning outcomes.
We completed the Penguin Random This is what we are doing: House merger, securing both Penguins commercial and creative future and the opportunity for significant Redirecting more of our operating expenses, economies of scale.
We sold Mergermarket in and our organic investment, more quickly 1 February 2014, which has ourished under Pearsons toour most promising opportunities ownership, but was not part of our strategy in global education.
The sale proceeds helped us to finance the We need fewer people, and resources, deployed acquisition of Grupo Multi, the leading adult English inthe publishing, production and manufacturing of language training company in Brazil.
It ts very well textbooks and their physical distribution, sales and with our strategy of investing more in faster growing marketing.
We need less print-based testing capacity, economies and in digital and related services that can as we consolidate our operations and move more have a greater and more measurable impact on towards online testing.
By spending much less on education around the world.
these activities as demand falls for example, US Higher Education textbook volumes have declined bymore than 20% in four years, we can invest much more in our biggest growth opportunities for example, MyLab digital registrations and our sales inemerging markets have both doubled over the same period.
WE ARE TRANSFORMING FASTER Our revenues in emerging markets Our revenues in digital products Our revenues in print vs. and services digital products and services $1,302m $4,727m 2013 revenues 819m 3,020m 2013 2013 40% 60% $471m $2,253m 235m 1,125m 2007 2007 Print Digital and services h t w OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS o r G s m r o f t a l p l a b P o r l G a o f c h e. i t r s r s e R o i m o N E n P A e a N a M l r O s S o O R n A E Section 1 Overview 11 weretire.
It changes how we recruit, train and reward Running Pearson as one globally each and every person in this company.
It will change 2 connected company how we develop new products, unleashing, I believe, anew wave of innovation and creativity across the Our operations are now entirely focused on our global company.
It will be difficult to pull off: and it will take education strategy in which we include the FT Group.
Thats why we specically talk about the path We have appointed a newexecutive team to lead it.
toefficacy that we are on.
And it is why we have Wed outgrown our organisation and, asa collection of committed to providing audited learning outcomes relatively stand-alone companies, we were duplicating data for all our products and services by 2018.
But, investment and proliferating small-scale initiatives, as detailed elsewhere in this report, we are making limiting our ability to build global scale.
We are now some specic, and measurable, efficacy commitments organising around asmaller number of global products for this year.
and platforms, built around a single, world-class infrastructure and common systems and processes.
We are putting the learner at the heart This will help us to grow more quickly, as it frees up 4 ofeverything we do resources to invest in our digital transformation, and thenew, more service-oriented, products that are vital We are putting the learner at the heart of everything to future growth.
Our commitment to efficacy recognises the fact that, whilst our customer is often a teacher, an Publicly committing to efficacy and institution, an education authority, a parent, or a 3 improvinglearning outcomes company: the real beneciary of our work and of our customers work is always the learner.
We will judge ourselves and invite others to judge Our purpose as a company and, ultimately, the true us not by the products thatwe make but by their measure of our success is whether we really do help impact on learners.
Thischanges how we decide to equip more people with the education and skills which companies to acquire, where and how we they need to progress in theirlives.
invest, which products we get behind and which WORKING AS ONE PEARSON Global functions Partner with geographies and lines of business:operate as integrated global functionsto achieve scale economies.
Lines of Business Responsible for global strategy, investment LEARNER priorities, product strategy and product portfolio for respective learner age and stage.
Geographies Responsible for customer relationships, salesand marketing, and delivery of educationproducts in their markets.
E T x P e E S c N u O t U i v l e o C C o o h s r n c o S e i t c n u f g n i l b a n e l n a b o o r i l e t G h a g c i u H d E 12 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Pearsons strategy: John Fallon, Chief executive continued A necessary transition The transformation of our company is fundamental to get ahead of the significant structural changes taking This is changing the way that every person in the place in education chiey the digital shift, in which company works.
At times, it is proving difficult and Pearson is playing a leading role.
It means that we are disruptive.
In the short term, it is made more painful, now in a much more intensive phase of investment at but all the more necessary, by the fact that we are the same time as we are nancing the one-off costs of battling against a number of cyclical, policy-related, the biggest restructuring in Pearsons recent history.
These led to We are investing much more, both in building the a sharp decline in earnings and free cash ow last year technology and related infrastructure, andin the next and will continue to make life difficult for us in 2014: generation of products and services, that are vital to The creation of Penguin Random House is a major making the most of that global education opportunity.
portfolio change, which creates economic value for We make this investment with confidence as we Pearson, but the move to associate accounting continue to grow strongly in emerging markets and reduces our reported operating profit in 2013 with our digital and service-related products.
In future and 2014. years, investing in these new growth areas will be Our US college business, our biggest and most nanced by cutting back in the print-led related areas profitable activity, is highly counter-cyclical, as I outlined earlier.
But, first, we face significant one-off enrolments grow strongly during a recession, when costs, both in 2013 and again in 2014, to achieve this.
jobs are harder to come by, and then fall back in the early years of economic recovery.
Our two big assessment and qualifications businesses, in the US and the UK, are seeing demand fall in the short term due to changes in government policy, which will open up new, and bigger, opportunities asthese changes are implemented.
UNIQUE MARKET POSITION 2012 Education revenues Pearson $7.3bn Apollo Group $4.0bn Benesse Education $3.5bn Laureate $3.4bn Kaplan $2.2bn McGraw-Hill $2.1bn Corinthian Colleges $1.6bn Cengage Learning $1.5bn Career Education Corp $1.5bn H Houghton Mifflin Harcourt oughton n Mifflin Harcourt $1.1bn $1.1bn OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 13 An ever more purposeful, and faster growing, company I thank all my colleagues for all their hard work and commitment, including all our former colleagues, who We have a lot of work ahead of us, but when I have served the company with such distinction.
Im writeagain in 12 months we will have completed sorry to see many good colleagues leave the company oursecondyear of significant restructuring and as a result of our restructuring and I wish them every reorganisation.
We will be reaping the rewards of success in their future careers.
I also thank all our significant investment, and we will start to see the shareholders for their support and patience through benets of a more favourable trading environment this short, sharp transition.
as those headwinds, over time, begin to ease and the operational risks recede.
Im determined to ensure that it is rewarded, as soon as possible, by building a leaner, more cash generative By accelerating the transformation of Pearson, and faster growing business and one ever more weareensuring that we shorten this transitional equipped to tackle some of the biggest and most period and that we get the company growing in a intractable problems in global education.
more profitable and sustainable manner, as quickly aswe can.
As we do so, we open up, for Pearson, bigger growth opportunities, a larger addressable market and a greater impact on learning outcomes.
We become more confident of our ability to seize that once-in-a-generation opportunity to become John Fallon Chief executive directly accountable for helping people make progress in their lives through learning.
We see the chance for Pearson to be the stand-out company in education, which is now emerging as one of the new global growth industries.
