Growth strategy page 20 Joint CEOs review The Group has made good progress over the last year and continues to execute its growth strategy.
The Group has reported substantial increases in revenues In July the Group acquired Opta, a leading provider of rich and has continued to expand its rights portfolio, distribution sports data to the media sector, sports clubs, leagues and clients, unique users, video streams and subscriber numbers.
federations, for cash consideration of 40 million together These results highlight the good operational and revenue with a management incentive scheme of up to 7 million growth the Group has delivered this year, even with the linked to the delivery of the businesss EBITDA for the year weaker than anticipated performance in the second half of to 30 June 2014.
The acquisition was funded through the the year.
issuance of 23.9 million new ordinary shares which raised total net proceeds of 112.6 million.
The Group supplemented its strong organic revenue growth with two important acquisitions.
Opta complements the Groups existing content distribution business by catering to the significant opportunity of rich In March the Group acquired the digital assets of American data within the wider media sector and allows the Group City Business Journals Inc. s ACBJ consumer web division to exploit the significant consumer opportunity of rich data Sporting News including Sportingnews.
The Group through its own products such as Goal.
It also strengthened established a new subsidiary, Perform Sporting News Ltd, the Groups presence in key European media markets.
and contributed its US and Canadian consumer businesses including the local versions of ePlayer and Goal.
The new Although the Group will continue to seek a small number subsidiary is 65% owned by the Group and 35% by ACBJ.
of complementary acquisitions, the focus in 2014 will be The Group is entitled to buy out ACBJs equity for a preto ensure the effective integration of the acquisitions the determined fixed cash price at any time and also has an Group has made over the past three years.
In many instances annual option each April from 2017 to acquire the equity acquisitions are still operating on their own platforms and are based on a multiple of prior year EBITDA calculation subject relatively autonomous from other areas of the business, which to a minimum and maximum value and satisfied by the issue has led to duplication and inefficiency.
Our aim is to make of new shares at the Groupsdiscretion.
sure the majority of acquisitions are fully integrated during 2014 with duplication and inefficiency reduced.
The deal enhanced the Groups direct to consumer scale and presence in the US and Canada and it has become a The opportunities for long-term sustainable growth remain top seven digital sports media player in the worlds largest significant.
The exciting developments in mobile and sports media market.
It combines video, display and mobile connected technology, innovation in digital sports rights advertising inventory to allow a complete product offering and international expansion offer significant opportunities.
to be sold to advertising and sponsorship partners and has The Group continues to invest in growing its international a sales team which covers every key media market in the US presence and in 2013 made good inroads in Africa, Middle and Canada.
East, South America and South East Asia that will enable the Group in the medium to long-term to maintain growth.
Oliver Slipper Joint Chief Executive Officer 14 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report 2013 was a transitional year for the Group with some very The focus for the Watch&Bet team during the year was to clear successes and some disappointments.
Total Group complete the new licence arrangements for the 2014 to 2016 year-on-year revenue growth was 37% 2012: 47%, with period.
In 2013 the service offering was increased to 16,543 incremental underlying growth excluding the impact of Opta events 2012: 14,729 with the start of the contracts with and Sporting News of 26%, which reflected how the Group the WTA Premier events, US Open and National Basketball continued to benefit from positive structural trends such as Association and the return to the service of the rights for increased digital media consumption, growth in connected Italian Serie A and French Ligue 1. device penetration, growth in online video advertising and growth in in-play online sports betting.
All of these trends are As we move into 2014 the service now has the highest quality forecast to continue to improve over the next few years and content 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with the majority of the Group should continue to benefit from them.
rights contracted until well into 2015.
We have spent more on rights than we previously anticipated but as a result we now Across the Group the growth of its advertising and have a better quality mix of content, cleared for more platforms.
sponsorship business was both a success, with this segment representing 23% of revenues 2012: 21% and growing 51% The Groups media product portfolio was significantly year-on-year 2012: 130%, but also a disappointment with enhanced by the acquisition of Opta and we expect strong revenues in the second half of the year being lower than growth in this area in 2014 as the importance of sports those we expected.
In 2014 we will invest in our internal statistics grows for both global media organisations and fans reporting and management information systems to improve around the world.
revenue visibility and as a Board we have taken a more conservative view of forecasts in this business segment.
That The average number of full time staff employed in the year said, 2014 should show strong year-on-year revenue growth increased by 439 to 1,345.
As a result of the margin decline as investments in content, both editorial and rights, and experienced in 2013, a full cost review has been initiated that our consumer products deliver more users and increased will result in a marginal decline in overall headcount in 2014, inventory with the positive effect of the FIFA 2014 WorldCup.
as efficiencies are realised following the full integration of acquisitions.
In addition to making changes to our overall staff The Groups video-on-demand network, the ePlayer, had structures, we have planned change programmes for 2014 in a very positive 2013.
The Group increased the number of data operations, software development, technical platforms, territories the ePlayer was live in from 24 at the end of 2013 to content management, supplier procurement and offices and 26, with launches in Brazil and Mexico.
Each of these programmes will require significant across the year increased to 5.0 billion 2012: 4.5 billion and changes but they are necessary to improve underlying average monthly unique users increased to 126 million 2012: margin in 2015 and Management are confident they will 112million.
Importantly, across the year the Groups ability not affect the revenues or operations of the Company to monetise these streams improved with a headline sellduring2014.
through-rate increasing to 48% 2012: 39% with investment in sales teams and rights in Italy, Netherlands, Nigeria, Spain These were only a few of many highlights in what was both and the US.
an exciting but also challenging year for the Group.
Following the completion of the Watch&Bet renewals for the 2014- Goal was successfully re-branded and re-launched, increasing 2016 term, aligned with strong contracted revenues across its average monthly audience from 37 million unique users RunningBall, Opta and Omnisport, the Group now has over across web and mobile in 2012 to 43 million.
By the end of 280 million of revenues contracted, contracting or under a 2013, 37 editions were live, in 17 languages and over 1,500 recurring supply agreement from betting for 2014-2016 which stories were being published each day.
Goal will have a gives us a great foundation to continue building success into significant presence at the FIFA World Cup in Brazil in 2014, 2014 and beyond.
which should prove a good catalyst for consumer usage and advertising revenue.
Simon Denyer Joint Chief Executive Officer Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
