Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Executives Strategicreview Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive 16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 emerging capability that builds on our existing 2013 was a challenging but ultimately strengths, to which we gave a strategic successful year for Petrofac.
We took significant steps towards our It is a source strategic goals.
As we progress through these phases of We also lived up to our emphasis on of great pride growth, we are achieving a more balanced operational excellence.
And, having geographic and business model mix.
We are signed some large and prestigious that 2013 saw also working across the entire life cycle of our contracts, we closed the year with our customers assets from early development highest ever order backlog.
us successfully right through to decommissioning.
Overall we delivered modest growth in earnings Fundamental to our success is Petrofacs deliver four in the year reecting the re-phasing of a small distinctive, delivery-focused culture, and number of large projects.
These external the six values that sustain it: safe, ethical, mega projects factors meant that our financial results fell short innovative, responsive, quality and cost of our initial expectations.
But, the progress we conscious, and driven to deliver.
with a gross have made on the strategic, operational and business development fronts allows us to face Managing risk through value of 2014 with a sense of optimism.
 As Petrofac pursues its strategic objectives We are establishing an ever stronger and approximately more diversied position in the oileld services then, by denition, the Company assumes more risk.
By aligning our own interests with our US$10 billion.
customers, we are set to benefit from the Indeed, the main way we create value is to need for increased capability to meet the ever assume project risk on behalf of customers.
a increasing global demand for energy.
And I am This could be in the form of a reimbursable confident we remain well positioned to deliver contract with performance-linked KPIs, the type of differentiated margins and returns traditional lump-sum EPC contract, Duty our shareholders have come to expect.
Holder operational contract, or a fully integrated solution.
In each case, we fide-risk From strategy to delivery the project and align our respective interests.
The theme of our annual report continues to In this way, we can secure improved margins, be From Strategy to Delivery and the clear and our customers can benefit from certainty progress towards our strategic goals should of delivery.
FPSO Berantai, offshore Malaysia The most effective way of managing these Across all of our activities, our business risks is a relentless focus on operational 2. International graduates in a session model and our differentiation is based on at the Petrofac Academy excellence.
As well as reducing uncertainties, living our values, a combination of deep and this enables us to deliver a sector- 1 widening capabilities, local delivery, effective leading performance.
risk management, innovative commercial Key to our operational excellence is bidding approaches, and a relentless focus on discipline.
By pre-investing in our bids, we get operational excellence.
better understanding of project complexity Our strategic evolution is marked out by and we establish more reliability on cost.
our three main phases of growth, each of We can then be commercially astute in which is supported by our core technical and negotiating terms, and we can reject any operational skills: prospects in which the risks are neither manageable nor commensurate with an 1.
Building and sustaining a world-class, acceptable level of shareholder return.
onshore engineering, procurement and construction EPC business our traditional There is no doubt that our 2013 performance 2 capability that continued to perform strongly was impacted by the highly competitive in 2013. bidding environment we experienced in 2011 and 2012.
Whilst some of our competitors 2.
Delivering an Integrated Energy Services chose to sacrifice their margins, we maintained IES business, making use of innovative our discipline throughout.
The return to todays commercial models which respond to more sustainable bidding behaviour suggests customer needs a capability that is now wellthat we were entirely right to do so.
established and gained further traction in 2013.
It is a source of great pride that 2013 saw us 3.
Growing and enhancing our offshore EPC successfully deliver four mega projects with capability, drawing on our existing project agross value of approximately US$10 billion.
management and offshore strengths an 17 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Executives Strategicreview continued Overall the portfolio is in very strong shape: Delivering in ECOM and increasing however it is clear that on an isolated number traction in IES ` of projects our execution could have been Our traditional onshore EPC business With our stronger.
This highlights the importance of performed well.
The delivery of four multiour continued drive for excellence across the billion dollar projects in 2013 proves our largest ever entire portfolio.
ability to execute large, complex contracts.
Having visited the completed facilities and order backlog, Building and retaining scarce skills spoken to our customers, I know how satisfied and local capabilities they are.
investment Delivering on our strategy requires us Based on projects awarded during 2013 to attract and retain many more people programme, and subsequently, the quality of the bidding with a more diversied range of expertise pipeline, and our historical win rate, we without diluting our distinctive, deliveryand significant are confident of growing our backlog and focused culture.
continuing to deliver sector-leading margins growth During the year we implemented a range of in 2014. related initiatives.
potential, we Meanwhile, IES is now a business of real For example, this years graduate intake scale, which has achieved a three-fold will have their professional development enter 2014 in increase in net profit in just three years.
supported and accelerated by the newly Now we have achieved scale in IES, we will established Petrofac Academy.
A new a strong also focus on consolidating our position performance management process was also on our existing assets.
The performance of launched, along with improvements to our position.
our existing Mexican operations, and the Leadership Excellence programme and our establishment of new operations in Pnuco Group-wide recruitment systems.
and Arenque were definite highlights as was delivery of first gas at the Berantai project in a Another important source of differentiation is Malaysia.
We will continue to look to improve our focus on local delivery.
Wherever possible, our execution and return on the IES portfolio.
we employ local people, work with local For example, a priority during 2014 will be partners, and establish a local supply chain.
to create greater value on the Ticleni project As demonstrated in this report, all of our where we are evaluating further seismic tests.
projects feature high levels of local content which facilitates our entry into new markets, Having led IES for the past three years, Andy 1.
Laggan-Tormore gas plant, cements long-term customer relationships Inglis has decided to leave us in order to return Shetland Islands, UK and reduces our costs.
to the USA, and we wish him well for the 2.
Training at NASAs Johnson Space future.
I have enjoyed working closely with him Center in Houston, USA Meanwhile the launch of our new Code of and would like to thank him for his contribution Conduct and a renewed focus on internal 1 to building the IES business.
I now look communications helped to reinforce our forward to working with Rob Jewkes, who has six values.
been appointed Chief Operating officer of IES Having said this, I regret to report that and the rest of the team.
we did experience a deterioration in our safety record in 2013, tragically including Fullling our offshore ambitions two fatalities in Turkmenistan and one in As all of the industry analysis confirms, Algeria.
Our immediate counter-measures offshore production is set to play an increasing and the related plans for 2014 are evidence role in the oil and gas market, and the trend is of our on-going commitment to safety to deeper water.
which, of course, is our first and our most Petrofac is well positioned to pursue the important value, and a key component of 2 related opportunities.
With more than 20 operational excellence.
years offshore experience, we have already delivered several billion dollars of offshore projects.
And, with recent acquisitions such as the offshore engineering and consulting business RNZ Integrated, and the subsea pipeline consulting and engineering services business KW Limited and the recruitment of several key senior leaders, we have progressively expanded our offshore capabilities.
18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Building on our core skills and capabilities, 1 we are now growing a differentiated top-tier offshore EPCI business focused on highend turnkey opportunities.
As in our onshore EPC business, we intend to manage a select portfolio of large contracts, with a rigorous focus on risk management.
Gratifyingly, we already have the confidence of our customers as demonstrated by the Lakach development, our first deepwater contract win in Mexico, and successful prequalication for several major EPCI contracts including the Bonga Southwest-Aparo project in Nigeria.
Of course, to build a business of scale in the deepwater EPCI market, we need an enabler.
We are investing therefore in our own high-end, multi-purpose installation vessel, the Petrofac JSD 6000, and in the last few Maintaining our capital discipline 2 months have awarded contracts for all of its As the Group assumes more risk and invests key components.
in its capability, our capital intensity also This uniquely congured vessel, with its increases as evidenced by 2013s inaugural best-in-class capabilities, will give us access bond issue.
to high-end projects, allow us to fide-risk their Capital discipline will therefore be a key theme delivery, and also help us to attract the very for 2014 and beyond.
It is scheduled to be available for construction and installation activities from Given the on-going investments in IES and our early 2017.
Helped along by this capability, we offshore business, we do expect our return are looking to build an offshore EPCI business on capital employed to decrease somewhat.
delivering revenues in the order of US$2 billion Even so we anticipate that, over our five by 2020 at strong margins.
year planning cycle, we will deliver returns ofsignicantly more than 20%.
Our people As we complete our offshore investment None of this would be possible without programme, and IES becomes cash our people.
Without doubt our employees generative, we also expect the Group as a are our best asset, and, underpinned by whole to return to free cash ow generation.
The Galkynysh gas treatment plant, our unique culture, they ensure we deliver Turkmenistan on our commitments to our customers.
Outlook for 2014 and beyond Often they are working on complex projects in 2.
Santuario oil elds, Mexico With our largest ever order backlog, demanding environments.
I would like to thank investment programme, and significant growth each and every one of them for their efforts in potential, we enter 2014 in a strong position.
2013 and I look forward to working with them during what I am confident will be an exciting Overall, we expect to deliver at to modest 2014 and beyond.
growth in earnings in 2014 and to return to strong earnings growth in 2015.
The end of 2013 saw Maroun Semaan, co-founder of Petrofac, retire from the Despite the cost pressures that some Company and step down from the Board.
customers are facing, I am confident Petrofac I would like to thank Maroun for all he has will continue to capture value through a done for Petrofac.
He leaves a strong and business model that fide-risks project execution experienced management team clearly and aligns our interests with those of our focused on long-term sustainable growth, clients.
Over the longer term, there will be anda considerable legacy on which we increased demand for energy fuelled by a continue to build.
growing global appetite for hydrocarbons, increased capital spending by resource holders, and a widening capability gap within our sector.
Petrofac and our shareholders will be well positioned to benefit from these conditions.
