ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 cHieF executiveS Statement viSiOn FOr tHe Future This has been a successful year for ARM and an exciting year for me.
On 1 July 2013, I succeeded Warren East to become ARMs Chief Executive Officer and lead the Group through its next stage of development.
In his 12 years in charge, Warren oversaw: ARMs strategy to transform mobile phones into smartphones and evolving intotablet computers.
ARM technology being chosen for use beyond mobile devices, with our customers deploying ARM-based chips ineverything from sensors to servers.
More than 45 billion ARM-based chips shipped by 150 companies during his tenure.
ARM broadening its technology offering to include a range of processors for different end markets, including graphics processors, and supporting physical IP technology and software tools.
2013 was my 23rd year at ARM, as I was one of ARMs original handful of engineers embarking upon a new business designing processors.
That small business has now grown into a global technology leader with2,833 employees.
ARMs success over the years is in no small part down to our collaborative approach in how we manage ourselves internally and in how we work with our industry partners.
As the new CEO of ARM, I know that retaining our leadership position is going to be, at times, both challenging and exciting.
I am very grateful for the guidance and support I have received from our Chairmen both retiring and incoming and my colleagues on the Board since I took on the CEO role.
The hard work and support of our executive team and all of ARMs employees has also been significant to our continuing success, as is the trust of our Partners that ARM will continue to provide them with the best technology for their products.
The future holds even more opportunity for ARM and for our Partners as they invest in innovation, and create technologies for decades to come.
6 Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report One of the best thingsabout being CEO ofARM is seeing our technology used in many of the most innovative products available today.
Simon Segars Chief Executive Officer From mobile phones to the internet internet of things ofthings To better understand the business drivers for ARM technology can be found in billions of the Internet of Things, we commissioned a mobile and connected devices.
In 2013 alone report from the Economist Intelligence Unit.
more than one billion smartphones shipped, Go to www.
com IOT to download growing the installed base to approximately the report.
two billion, and the smartphone market Go to www.
com IOT is forecast to grow at a 10% Compound to download the report.
Annual Growth Rate CAGR over the nextfive years.
ARM is well positioned to take advantage ofthe growth in the mobile devices market, The impact of mobility and connectivity to benefit as new networks and data centres brings new levels of freedom to consumers are built, and to be the primary technology to access their data, and much more besides.
within embedded computing and the New products and services have been Internet of Things.
created, such as downloadable apps and content, and devices that can be wirelessly meeting global challenges attached to or controlled by a smartphone.
Digital technology based on smarter Expanded mobile networks are being electronics has played a huge role in making deployed and new data centres are being todays society a better place for all of us.
developed as we download more content Technology has an even greater role in the and generate more data.
And now other challenges that lie ahead.
Over the next few products and devices are being connected pages we look at some of those challenges to networks such as healthcare equipment, and how technology is already helping to shipping containers, white goodsin the overcome them.
home, industrial equipment andeven light bulbs.
Together, these factors are leading to the creation of a massive Internet of Things.
7 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 cHieF executiveS Statement CONTINUED Health and wellness energy efficiency in networks environment Many of us are trying to improve our With smartphones and tablets growing Managing and monitoring the use of natural health and fitness by being more active.
rapidly and the introduction of new devices to resources becomes increasingly important Some devices now monitor our activity connect to the internet, we are entering an age as the worlds population grows, and the and location, and measure how much we of hyper-connectivity.
It is forecast that there standard of living increases.
Therefore it is have exercised and how many calories we will be a five-fold increase in data transferred important that we maximise the benefit from have burned.
These devices can be a useful globally between 2012 and 2017.
This is cultivated land and the use of water and motivator to encourage us to go for a walk reshaping the requirements for networking energy, whilst minimising the harmful impact and get some exercise, especially if we have infrastructure and our data centres that must from pollution and waste.
Smart electronics been sat in the office all day.
Other devices carry and store all this data.
To avoid an can be used to monitor and control the use can be used to provide security for those that unsustainable increase in energy consumption of critical resources, and ensure that the right are potentially vulnerable such as older people and carbon footprint, it is no longer enough to amount of water and nutrients is applied to at risk of illness or falls, or young children.
just build more performance, operators and crops.
Using cloud-based computing, these equipment must provide more performance sensors can be linked together across very per watt.
large areas to maximise the productivity of farms and regions.
ARM-based Pebble Smartwatch HP Moonshot: Based on chips using the Intelligent Agriculture with OnFarm ARMv7 and ARMv8 Architecture It was the Pebble that has made the world OnFarm provides intelligence to farmers interested in Smartwatches, with its incredible With nearly 10 billion devices connected to to improve their yields and reduce the use innovation and great style.
Wearers want the internet and predictions for exponential of consumables such as water, fertiliser and a watch that connects seamlessly to their growth, weve reached a point where the pesticide.
This is achieved by gathering data devices and can run for days so they can enjoy space, power, and cost demands of traditional from multiple sources, including sensors all the benefits of their smart watch without technology are no longer sustainable.
placed in and around crop fields and orchards.
worrying about performance or battery life.
HP Moonshot marks the beginning of a new With the innovation taking place around style of IT that will change the infrastructure ARM-based sensors and the emergence of economics and lay the foundation for the next low-cost and long-range wireless technologies, 20 billion devices.
we see lower-cost devices being deployed in vast numbers to provide granular data to the agricultural industry.
For more information on technology in health and wellness: For more information on how ARM and HP are working together For more information on how the internet of things can make Daniel Kraft, MD, presenting the Future of Technology in in this area: Martin Fink, CTO HP Labs, presenting on The New the world a better and more efficient place: Nandini Ramani, Health & Medicine at ARMs TechCon 2013 Style of IT & HPs Moonshot at ARMs TechCon 2013 VP Java Platform at Oracle presenting Enabling Compelling Services for IoT at ARMs TechCon 2013 8 Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report transport productivity through education productivity through lowering the barrier to entrepreneurship In 2008, for the first time in history, over Many parts of the education system havent half of the worlds population lived in urban changed for many years, and no longer match New products and services are created areas and by 2050 this will have risen to the needs and expectations of a modern when entrepreneurs see an opportunity to 70%.
Congestion is already a huge problem child, leading to a lack of engagement.
At the enter a new market with the resources to do in many cities, especially in peak commute same time, a large number of children have something about it.
Over the last few years times.
By building intelligence into transit very little access to information, leading to computing has become more accessible, so systems and cars, we can make our public fewer opportunities for a good education.
creating a new ARM-based product has never transport and private car travel much more Some educations systems are looking been easier for more people.
With smarter infrastructure that to both reach a wider audience and to to drive a new era of innovation.
knows the location of vehicles, and can effectively engage with them through the communicate with them, we can increase the useof technology.
capacity of existing roads and railways, and predict and plan the best routes for travellers, directing vehicles away from accidents or overloaded intersections.
Smart Parking with Streetline Networks Improving education in Thailand with tablets Making almost anything with a 3D printer Smart parking reduces traffic and pollution, The One Tablet Per Child OTPC policy Robox is CELs 3D printer.
You can print making happier citizens and more costwas launched by Prime Minister Yinglucks with many materials to create solid, usable efficient cities.
Dust Networks wireless government in 2012 in an attempt to improve 3D objects and prototypes.
It contains an mesh network solution, featuring the ARM Thai education.
In 2013, OTPC tablets were Atmel ATSAM3U2EA microcontroller, CortexM3 processor, enables Streetline provided to the Ministry of Education by firms powered by an ARM Cortex-M3 processor.
Networks to reliably gather the real-time including Shenzhen Scope, featuring Rockchip status of municipal metered parking spots, RK3066 with dual-core ARM Cortex-A9 and use that data to reduce traffic congestion.
processor and quad-core ARM Mali-400 MP4 Graphics Processing Unit GPU, with an average cost of around $80 per tablet.
For more information on how Streetline is making parking For more information on how the Scope tablet is being used For more information on how ARM technology is encouraging smarter near you download the Streetlines Parker app in Thai schools: ARM technology is addressing many of the innovation around the world: Simon Segars, ARM CEO, worlds challenges, including education presenting his vision for transformative technology at ARMs TechCon 2013 9 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 cHieF executiveS Statement CONTINUED enabling innovation at arm and understand the needs of our Many of our customers are global semiconductor and OEM Partners.
We then semiconductor companies, which clearly ARM employs some of the most creative and combine their inputs with our own research requires an international focus.
Today we innovative people in the industry, who have to create the next generation of our have 31 offices in 15 countries, with R&D the vision and drive to develop and deploy the technology designs.
This close collaboration development sites in UK, US, China, France, best technology.
Together with our partners with our Partners requires the ARM team Germany, Taiwan and India.
We have we are developing some of the technology to be open to new ideas and suggestions.
a strong culture of encouraging internal that can make the world a better place for Internally we encourage managers to take communication and interworking between everyone.
The ARM team is bound together a consensual approach to leading teams, sites.
We believe strongly in spending time by a set of principles and behaviours by which and as those individuals become successful, with our customers and have established we operate.
These principles and behaviours so we are developing the leaders who will offices in the major regions where our have evolved as the Group has developed, manage the Group within ARMs broad and customers develop ARM-based products.
and still hold true today.
These shared principles and behaviours have We consider the following as essential More than two-thirds of ARMs employees evolved over the last 23 years, during which elements of the behaviour of an ARM are engineers, specifying and inventing the ARM team has increased to provide employee in whatever discipline they work: new technology to be licensed.
ARMs technology to the growing ecosystem of teamwork and selflessness: constructive non-engineering employees focus on the Partners.
These shared principles still guide proactivity: partner and customer focus and deployment of this technology: marketing and ustoday and I am confident that they will help responsiveness.
In addition, we encourage all sales maintain the essential relationships with the ARM team to continue to develop, create employees to take pride in innovation and in our Partners, legal and licensing teams support and license technology for years to come.
negotiations, infrastructure teams provide the The focus of our business model is to create delivery mechanisms, finance teams manage technologies that are well suited for many financial matters, and HR teams support the Partners to use in a diverse range of markets.
ongoing development of a high performance, The creativity of our employees therefore high engagement organisation in which our rests in our ability to listen to people can innovate, collaborate and grow.
2,833 emplOyeeS armS SHareD principleS anD BeHaviOurS internal external We are We SuppOrt SuppOrteD By Delivery of results Listen and understand 100s Customers customer and Partner needs Families Teamwork and selflessness 1,000s Partner and customer focus Constructive proactivity Communities ecosystem partners Responsiveness Partner and customer focus Local government 1,000,000 Developers Being a good neighbour to Responsiveness local communities Suppliers Innovation Increasing shareholder value Investors Personal development Multi-discipline teams work Manage across diverse companies together to determine strategy and ecosystem 10 Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report Enabling innovation everywhere The use of digital technology and smarter electronics will continue to grow as we meet the increasing demands of society, and as previously unconnected devices become smarter and connected into the digital world.
This is creating a huge opportunity for the semiconductor industry, and ARM is well positioned to benefit both from increasing cOmmercial OperatiOnS sales of computer chips, and also increasing our market share with our smart, power efficient technologies.
Mobile communications and mobile tecHnical OperatiOnS computers were just the first markets to need smart electronics, and almost all mobile devices sold today contain at least one ARM-based chip.
The smartphone market grew by about half in 2013, with many Organising for an increasing opportunity Well positioned for the future consumers upgrading from voice-only phones.
As ARM technology is increasingly deployed ARMs expertise, technology, business Over the next few years, the smartphone by more companies into more applications, model and ecosystem mean that we are well and mobile computer markets are expected we need to ensure that ARM is organised to positioned to take advantage of the growing to continue to grow strongly, especially in meet the challenges of higher expectations opportunity as technology meets some of emerging markets where mobile computers from more customers and more end markets.
the key challenges that face society.
We are can become an essential tool for education, At the beginning of 2014 I restructured also continuing to investigate new markets business and supporting community projects.
the Group to create an organisation that and opportunities, as well as developing the is more scalable and more accountable: skills and capability of ARMs employees so As other devices become smarter and one that will offer our customers a more that they can develop the next generation of the need for power efficiency increases in joined-up product portfolio, ensuring better technology that will enable our customers other markets, so our opportunities grow.
integration of our technologies in our tocreate innovative products.
During 2013, we saw high numbers of chips customers products.
We therefore no longer containing our technology being sold into ARM gains share as our customers use more have separate divisions, but instead a single enterprise networking, and the first ARMof our technology in their chips.
We work product development team consisting of based server chips sold.
We expect these very closely with leaders across the industry seven product groups, all reporting into Pete markets to become increasingly significant to to ensure we are developing the right Hutton, EVP and President Product Groups.
us over the next few years.
This collaborative Pete will be responsible for the integrated approach comes from ARMs own internal ARM is also seeing strong growth in chips for product development and delivery of ARMs culture and is something we carefully embedded computing that go into a wide business lines.
In addition, he will manage two manage as we grow in size, both in terms of range of end applications, from washing cross-functional teams that will help ensure increased headcount and market influence machines to robotics.
These chips are often alignment between the product groups and responsibility.
very low cost, and sell into a very broad range roadmaps and execution.
of markets that add up to huge volumes.
As the new CEO of ARM, I am excited by These product groups will be further In 2013 more than three billion ARMthis opportunity.
I am confident that ARMs supported by Antonio Viana, EVP and based chips were sold into these products, expertise, together with our Partners President of Commercial and Global an increase of 35% on the previous year.
creativity and diversity, means that we will Development, who manages our commercial Many companies are investing in innovation be at the forefront of the new products and team, and Ian Drew, EVP and Chief Marketing into these categories of chips to meet the services that will help to make the world a Officer.
Together Antonio and Ian will needs of the Internet of Things.
In 2013, better place for everyone.
develop the ecosystem of companies that is ARM licensed Cortex-M class processors to so important to ARMs long-term success.
This market could grow to Simon Segars 30 billion chips by 2018.
Chief Executive Officer 11 Architecture CPU Physical Design Media Processing Systems & Software Development Solutions Partner Enablement ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 Helping peOple perFOrm Wearable technology is helping to keep us fit and healthy.
Many people use ARM-based digital pedometers to keep track of steps travelled and calories burned.
These devices may be synchronised with a smartphone app that can record the calories consumed, and so give information to keep us healthy and motivated.
More information about embedded ARM-based devices can be found onpages 3237 and also online.
com reporting2013 12 Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report 13
