Strategic report ChiEF ExECutiVES REViEW OVeRVieW While Playtech continued to focus on increasing its regulated markets In a year of strong growth for Playtech, the income, dot.
com operators continue to Company increased revenue by 16% to be important to the Companys growth 367.2 million and grew adjusted EBITDA strategy as they provide the cornerstone by 17% to 159.4 million excluding the insoon to be regulated markets.
share of profits received from William Hill Online, with overall adjusted EBITDA of During the year, Playtech has made 177.5 million.
significant progress in regulated and soon to be regulated markets including During the period, Playtech expanded its the UK, Italy, France, Spain, Denmark, product offering and lines of business, Latvia, Estonia, Mexico and Puerto Rico both organically and through acquisitions.
The Company also secured a number of important new licensees and further In January 2014, Playtech won an extended its relationships with existing exclusive supply agreement with Holland licensees.
Landmark agreements were Casino as it moves into online gaming.
signed with Ladbrokes to supply a Holland Casino is expecting to launch full range of software products and to Playtechs entire gaming product suite enhance its digital business until 2017. including casino, poker, bingo, mobile and portal once the Dutch market regulates Importantly, mobile revenues more than in early 2015.
In preparation, Playtech tripled as a result of Playtechs investment will deliver a play-for-fun offering, which in mobile technology to create a better will support Holland Casinos efforts to player experience, greater visibility of establish itself in the online space and build player behaviour as well as increasing an online player base.
Playtech is committed to working closely with regulators and the Company has RegulAted mARkets been co-operating with the Italian regulator, Regulated markets continue to present AAMS, in developing a joint programme significant potential for revenue growth to manage unlicensed operators to either and Playtech is in a prime position to take withdraw from the Italian market in an advantage of global market developments, orderly fashion over the next four months such as those in the Netherlands, or to obtain a local license and migrate South Africa and Mexico and we remain their players.
Playtechs commitment optimistic for future development in to such regulated markets may have a other markets.
Playtech is the only company in the gambling industry that offers a fully integrated, multi-channel, multi-platform and multi-product offering as well as a full range of services.
mor Weizer, chief executive Officer Playtech plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Playtech is making good progress Playtech is the only company in the maintaining its market leading position.
supporting leading operators including gambling industry that offers a fully The Company is uniquely positioned with SNAI, Sisal and Eurobet, launched integrated, multi-channel, multi-platform the most extensive portfolio of mobile new operators during the year and is in and multi-product offering as well as products covering sports, a large library active discussion in respect of further a full range of services, including a of mobile games, casino and live casino, significant opportunities.
The Company is best bingo and poker all offered in native iOS, positioned to become the partner of Android and HTML5 with a mobile hub Management continues to believe that choice for local and international brands platform that allows both sports betting Playtechs commitment to regulated requiring a comprehensive successful and gaming within the same application markets and proven track record, positions gambling operation.
creating cross product sales opportunities.
it as the natural choice for operators in regulated markets.
The expected positive Playtech continues to invest in its marketPlaytech has continued to enhance the regulatory change in various jurisdictions leading suite of products, while growing player experience including the further creates significant opportunities for the opportunities in sports betting, and the development of its market-leading IMS the Company.
Further opportunities platform to include personalisation are being created by investing in new capabilities and additional tools for the and emerging product verticals that will entire player lifecycle from pre-acquisition stRAtegic POsitiOning become additional building blocks for through all player activities.
Operators now Playtechs long-term strategy of organic future growth such as social and casual have greater insight into player behaviour development, joint ventures and targeted gaming, financial betting and virtual and more control over their activities.
acquisitions has enabled it to take sports betting.
Successful implementation of Playtechs advantage of significant opportunities strategy has further strengthened its Mobile gambling continues to be one of in the global gambling industry.
market position, and the Company is the most significant growth drivers of the As governments see the implementation increasingly recognised as the leading global online gambling industry.
Playtechs of gambling tax and the sale of regulatory software and services supplier to the comprehensive offering of technologically licenses as significant revenue potential, online gambling industry, as evidenced advanced solutions is essential to future there is a continued industry move towards by Playtech winning the Best iGaming success.
Playtech remains at the forefront a greater mix of locally regulated markets.
Software Provider Award at the of mobile technology and is focused on Land-based and digital channels continue International Gaming Awards for the third to converge as land-based retail operators year in a row.
seek to leverage their brands, offering players the same games on both channels and a seamless playing experience with a single account covering both their retail and digital play.
industry awards won in the past year: Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 financial statements governance strategic report Strategic report ChiEF ExECutiVES REViEW CONTINUED AcquisitiOns licensees Bet365 added to its product suite by launching mobile live casino in September During the year, Playtech acquired Playtech aims to provide its licensees and Gala launched a fully customised PokerStategy.
com, the worlds largest with market-leading content, features, mobile gambling platform.
poker affiliate business, bolstering the tools and a broad range of services that iPoker network and the services division.
support and enhance their businesses Betclick Everest launched a popular new Previous acquisitions, including Geneity, allowing them to maximize their return on mobile poker version, Unibet launched Mobenga and Ash Gaming are now marketing investments.
The Companys in France and Playtech launched its live fully integrated and delivering significant focus remains on new licensees in casino offering in Spain together with benefits in terms of revenue, product regulated markets following prior success Casino Grand Madrid.
capability, cross-sell opportunities in signing new agreements and extending Playtech continues to be extremely and licensee relationships.
There are relationships with existing licensees.
successful in extending its existing licensee significant opportunities for Playtech to In March, Playtech signed landmark relationships to include additional products provide PokerStrategy services to all agreements with Ladbrokes for the and services.
Importantly, the Company existing licensees to further strengthen provision of all software verticals along enjoys a very strong pipeline of potential relationships and to provide the service with a marketing services agreement.
new business as well as the additional to other potential licensees, which would The Vegas casino tab was launched in opportunities from existing licensees increase the appeal of Playtechs offering.
July, with the Mobenga mobile sports seeking to extend their relationship to Given the Companys cash resources and platform launched in December, Geneity include more products and platforms.
cash flow, management remains keenly launched in Spain in December and live focused on securing the right opportunities casino was launched in January 2014, in for transformational as well as further line with the phased migration plan.
bolt-on acquisitions and joint ventures Paddy Power migrated its live casino to inregulated markets.
Playtech operates Playtech in April, enjoying the benefits of a in a dynamic industry and strongly dedicated facility, which has proved highly believes it will continue to create additional successful with Paddy Power customers.
Other UK operators extended their relationships with Playtech, such as Betfair, which launched Playtechs bingo and migrated over to the iPoker network, and Sky, which launched mobile bingo on iOS.
Playtech provides its licensees with market-leading branded content.
Playtech plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PROducts And seRVices seRVices basis, driven by new licensees, and the launch of a new tablet-specific version.
In 2013, Playtech made a record The roll out of Playtechs fully customised level of investment into its product mobile bingo offering was a step change in offering, extending its capabilities both bingo strategy as tablets are a commonly horizontally and vertically through inused device in many bingo halls and house development as well as through therefore should also appeal to online the introduction of acquired products and Services grew 5% over 2013, boosted bingo players.
Investment will continue into by the acquisition of PokerStrategy current and new areas of operations as whose performance has been in line with Playtechs bingo brand, VirtueFusion, has they develop.
once again won a number of industry awards, including eGaming Reviews Playtech offers unique affiliate marketing Casino Bingo Network of the Year, and Bingo services and sophisticated CRM Supplier of the year.
solutions, combined with advanced player management tools, which are of particular Videobet interest to new market entrants requiring Playtechs flagship product delivered a full turnkey solution as well as to existing an outstanding performance in 2013, operators wanting to boost their online with revenues increasing 25% from a gambling operations.
combination of organic growth, new Experience in 2013 demonstrated that licensees, expansion of the games various well established operators in portfolio, and growth from mobile Videobet enjoyed strong revenue growth regulated markets will only join with a andthelive dealer offering.
of 14% in 2013, and its technology was strategic partner that can provide best of deployed in an additional 2,800 terminals, breed software and support services that further diversifying the licensee base.
can drive their online gambling operation.
Videobet has expanded into emerging markets, such as Mexico and Puerto Bingo Rico, and these together with additional markets currently in test, provide a solid pipeline for 2014 and beyond.
While given the constraints of physical premises, sales cycles of machines are longer than online and the success of Videobet and the Playtech provides the industrys leading increased numbers of terminals deployed bingo offering and operates the industrys has attracted the attention of various slot largest bingo network.
Bingo continues machine operators in some key markets to perform well, increasing revenue in the for the Company.
period by 7% on a constant currency a selection of our licensees: PANTONE 280 PANTONE 151 print Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Financial statements Governance strategic report Strategic report ChiEF ExECutiVES REViEW CONTINUED Sports betting online sports betting as well as mobile Mobile betting activities.
The ability to deploy an advanced, fully-integrated, multi-channel, multi-platform sports solution in any jurisdiction is a key strategic advantage for many operators.
This creates significant During 2013, the growth of mobile opportunities for Playtech to establish continued to outperform all other product itself as the prime strategic technology channels, rewarding Playtechs significant partner as operators seek ways to replace Sports betting is one of the largest investment in the sector.
The mobile hub, legacy systems which in many cases were gambling markets and frequently acts as which combines mobile sports betting developed internally.
the gateway for players to access other and mobile gaming products into one gaming experiences.
Sports betting is multi-functional, multi-product offering, has Poker usually one of the first products to be now been rolled out to two large licensees approved in newly regulated markets.
offering a seamless mobile player journey.
Having acquired Geneity in early 2012, While Playtech continues to focus on the Playtech launched four sports betting development of mobile platforms, it is also licensees in 2013, crystallising some of committed to providing mobile formats for the significant potential for this business.
its entire product range and to increase The international poker market remains Given the expected impetus from the significantly the number of games available challenging.
Playtech is the most World Cup in June 2014 and the current in mobile format.
Playtechs mobile appealing and largest leading independent sales pipeline, management expect to see betting product has been adopted by the network, attracting well-established significant growth from sports betting over majority of the largest operator licensees.
operators in core key markets such the the short to medium term.
Other mobile products including live UK, Italy and France.
During the year, casino, bingo and poker were developed Playtechs sports systems are Playtech signed several new licensees with a strong focus on ease of use and recognised by various well-established including Betfair, which migrated its dot.
include a number of exciting features operators as the most advanced com and Spanish business onto the available only on mobile devices.
iPoker network, and also Ladbrokes which The Playtech proposition has unique migrated onto iPoker and Unibet which Playtech tailors its offering providing capabilities allowing operators to deploy launched in France.
The acquisition of customised smartphone and tablet a fully integrated sports system in all PokerStrategy creates new incremental propositions, ensuring that all products are environments, supporting over-the-counter opportunities for attracting new licensees fully integrated to the same management and Self Service Betting Terminal SSBT onto the iPoker network.
tools and linked to the relevant bingo, operations in land-based premises, poker and casino jackpot pools.
In 2013, sport was the fastest growing product vertical.
Playtech plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Social and Casual Live OutlOOk Playtech has made a strong start to 2014, with daily average revenues for the first seven weeks of 2014 up over 15% on Q1 2013 up over 8% after excluding the Playtechs live dealer offering saw acquisition of PokerStrategy and over 4% During the last quarter of 2013, leveraging revenue growth of 17%, benefitting from on Q4 2013. the expertise provided by the team organic growth and the acquisition of In summary, while there are anticipated of developers at Skywind, Playtech new licensees.
Playtech invested heavily regulatory and fiscal developments ahead, soft launched its Wild Spin Casino on into the product and Live gaming facility, Playtechs position as the leading provider Facebook.
A full public launch is expected providing dedicated services for Paddy of software and services to the global to be made in the coming months.
gambling industry means we look forward Management believes this is an area of As part of Playtechs ongoing investment, with confidence to 2014 and beyond.
future potential and has assembled a team a mobile solution for the live casino Playtech has reported another excellent with strong track records of development was developed and offered as native year, and continues to capitalise on its to drive this initiative.
A capital expenditure applications and HTML5, ensuring that clear strategy and strong balance sheet.
budget has been agreed for a period of the player experience and broadcasting investment, which the Company believes, capabilities on mobile devices will remain will generate significant long-term revenue intact.
Broadcast was extended to launch and EBITDA income.
a Spanish live casino service from Casino Gran Madrid in accordance with local rules Similarly casual gaming is complementary and regulations.
to social gaming and a growing mor Weizer and important market for Playtech.
Chief Executive Officer The Company intends to make relevant PeOPle 20 February 2014 capital investment into this market, Playtech has continued to invest which has been estimated to be as significantly in human resources to large as $30 billion on a global basis.
maintain its position as the leading supplier The investment in 2014 will generate of software and services to the online significant long-term shareholder value.
gambling industry by delivering innovative high quality products and services to its clients.
Live dealer services are now available across all mobile channels Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 financial statements governance strategic report
