Premier Farnell 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Uncertain macroeconomic conditions continued to provide a difficult backdrop to the business landscape in 2012 13.
Despite this, Premier Farnell remained focused on optimising business performance through balanced management of sales, gross margin and costs in line with the market conditions, whilst continuing to implement our strategic vision.
This resulted in the business delivering an industry leading operating margin of 10.1%, restricting our year-on-year decline in adjusted operating profit to 7.8% and delivering strong cash performance with operating cash ow conversion of 125.3%.
Premier Farnell is a business in evolution, well on its way to transforming from a catalogue company to a global multichannel, high service distributor at the forefront of innovation in its industry.
In this short interview Q&A session, Laurence Bain, CEO, reects on Premier Farnells progress this year and how the business will capitalise on its future opportunities.
This is your first report as CEO: what does Premier Farnell mean to you?
I am extremely proud to have the opportunity to lead the Group through thenext stages in its development.
Having already spent ten years here asCOO, I know what this business has to offer and what it is capable ofdelivering in the future.
Its why I am so passionate about the business and excited as we implement our strategic vision to maximise the opportunities ahead.
Throughout the organisation and in every region, Premier Farnell has Laurence Bain exceptionally talented people working together in a culture of trust, Chief Executive officer integrityand innovation.
By continuing to adhere to these values and putting customers and suppliers at the heart of all we do, I am confident that our business is well positioned to implement its strategy, optimise itsperformance through the economic cycles and deliver returns for ourstakeholders.
How would you describe the past year for Premier Farnell?
This year was a year of evolution for Premier Farnell and I was appointed CEO in June 2012.
Since then I have looked to ensure we have a strong global leadership team in place, and a more efficient organisational structure.
In November 2012 I was delighted to welcome Mark Whiteling back tothe Company as CFO.
With a closely aligned Global Executive Team GET, Inow believe the structure is in place to lead the business through the nextsteps of its evolution and capitalise on the significant opportunities wehave.
2012 13 was a challenging year as our business continued to be impacted by the weakness in the global electronic and industrial markets.
Throughout much of the year, global manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices PMIs have been in contraction and the electronics segment has been negatively affected, leading to greater competition within our marketplace.
Against this backdrop, we have sought to optimise our overall financial Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 11 Measuring our performance As our strategy evolves to optimise the performance of our business, we have rened our key performance indicators to enable us to measure our success.
In our external metrics we have increased our focus on the areas that matter most for our stakeholders growth, efficiency, profitability and cash ow while internally, we have reviewed our metrics to align them to our objectives and to facilitate optimal operational performance.
Key Performance Indicator Achieved in FY13 Growth Active customer growth 4% 1.3% Sales per day growth 6% -2.8% Emerging market growth 10% 7.5% including Embest efficiency % of MDD sales from eCommerce 70% 56.8% Return on net operating assets 30% 34.6% profitability Operating margin 10%-12% 10.1% Cash ow Free cash ow as a % of sales 6% through the cycle 6.1% More detail on the evolution of our KPIs and our performance against them is contained on pages 14 and 15. performance in line with the current market conditions, while delivering We have also made positive progress towards our vision of being the strong cash generation and continuing to make solid progress as we global source for engineering solutions.
Our acquisition of Embest, our implement our strategic vision.
Marks Business Review starting on design services subsidiary based in China, enhanced our offering of the page24 provides more detail.
development tools and development kits which are vital to engineers earlyin their design process.
This acquisition is already providing us with Our customers are at the heart of what we do and central to our vision significant benets as we deliver a differentiating proposition to both our ofthe future of high service distribution.
We add value to customers by customers and suppliers.
making the achievement of their objectives easier.
That means helping them nd the right, trusted products and solutions, along with the But there is much to do and many further opportunities for us to leverage information and services that they require, and providing fast delivery our global talents and resources as we look to optimise our business and through our logistics partners.
lead the high service distribution industry through future economic cycles.
Which areas of the Groups strategy have you developed?
Our customers are at the heart of what we Over recent years, the business has focused on driving its strategic vision do and central to our vision ofthe future of and this has delivered returns for our stakeholders.
Our five year total high service distribution.
shareholder return is 87%, higher than our FTSE250 benchmark which was 57% over the same period.
Being easy to do business with is critical to that vision.
By combining eld While this represents solid progress against a volatile and uncertain sales resources, contact centres, technical resources and innovative economic backdrop, we are not satisfied.
Together with the Board and the eCommerce channels, we enable our customers to interact with us in the wider management team, we have updated our strategy to position our way they prefer.
business for growth, while remaining focused on delivering efficiencies from our model to optimise financial performance across the As described in more detail on page 19, we have continued to develop our economiccycles.
Our new telesales and telemarketing centre in Krakow, Poland is yet another important development, providing Our strategy is simple and centred on three core pillars: focus on customer enhanced, consistent service levels to customers across Europe while also centric segments of the electronics market, providing a differentiating delivering greater operational efficiencies to our business.
Meanwhile our multichannel environment and internationalising our business model, award winning element14 Community has gone from strength to strength especially in the faster growing emerging markets.
Receiving more than 8.1 million visits in the past 12 months, it now has over 150,000 registered members, a number that continues to increase by over 5,000 per month.
Innovation remains the lifeblood of Premier Farnell.
In the second quarter, the industry leading element14 Community played a vital role as we launched the Raspberry Pi, the revolutionary, credit card-sized single board computer.
The launch attracted phenomenal interest from engineers, hobbyists and the media and by the end of the year we had sold 600,000 Raspberry Pi units.
The success of this product continues through the next generation 512mb version and as we increase our range of exclusive accessory products.
Premier Farnell 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CEO STATEMENT 1.
We will look to ensure our proposition 3.
We will drive growth in markets where enables us to service customers varying our share is small and by entering new requirements and win business across emerging geographies the high service electronics market Premier Farnell is now a global enterprise with 80% of sales from outside ofthe UK.
But this is just the start.
The opportunity to benefit from the The foundation of our approach is to get very close and listen to our growth in electronics in emerging economies and to increase share in customers in order to ensure that our proposition meets their requirements thefragmented high service distribution marketplace remains exciting.
Customer insight will drive our proposition in every way from our product offering through to our interaction with customers To go faster, we will focus our resource in emerging markets such as and suppliers.
This enhanced customer focus enables us to better target China, India and Eastern Europe where significant structural growth in the and develop our proposition to provide further differentiation and drive electronics markets is expected in the years ahead.
Apart from benefitting active customer base growth, a key measurement of success for our customers in these territories through our differentiating proposition, our business.
The enhancements we have been making are already delivering key suppliers will have their products introduced into the electronics results.
We continue to see progress in our customer service metrics, lifecycle, providing them with a route to higher growth markets.
To date, withour Net Promoter Score our internal customer satisfaction metric thebusiness has made progress by growing our emerging markets to increasing through the year and our active customer base increased by 9.3% of our MDD revenues by the fourth quarter of 2012 13.
As we 1.3% year-on-year, excluding the benefit of more than 200,000 new leverage our global infrastructure and tailor our service to the local markets, customers from Raspberry Pi.
This progress in our active customer base we will expand our model as we seek to deliver our strategic target of 10% isencouraging as it represents the attractiveness of our proposition and annualised sales growth in emerging markets.
Together these three pillars of our strategy will help to increase our active customer base by attracting new customers and driving customer retention 2.
Our business will continue to develop its rates which will allow us to continue to develop our business, increase efficiency and deliver optimal financial performance for our stakeholders unique multichannel offering and extend inthe future.
its eCommerce capability to meet the What does the future hold for Premier Farnell?
requirements of participants in the Economic conditions have been unpredictable over the past year and electronics space Premier Farnell is a business with limited forward order visibility but, as aresult of the strategic progress we have made, the outlook for Premier Our ability to tailor our relationship with customers is enabled by our Farnell is positive.
We combine commerce and We are well positioned to capitalise on the growth opportunities that exist community though extensive and efficient traditional channels such as and will seek to optimise our business performance through the cycles.
our620 eld sales and 610 contact centre resources with innovative Wewill continually assess our strategic progress and look to evolve this eCommerce interfaces including the award-winning element14 Community.
Being multichannel is more than becoming a web business.
While we will Our commitment to meeting the needs of all our targeted customers seek to benefit from increased efficiencies as transactional processes across the high service electronics space means that we will invest further move online and become automated, we will develop the marketing to support this aim in the year ahead as we look to drive our growth capability of our channels to optimise customer experience and provide metrics.
Over the coming year we will enhance our global proposition oursuppliers with an exceptional route to the global marketplace.
through the incremental investment of circa 20 million of inventory, We are making good progress in the implementation of this strategy.
whiledeveloping our systems and continuing to enhance our differentiating Following the opening of our new contact centre in Krakow, consolidating multichannel sales strategy.
Our focus on driving efficiencies in our model our European telesales and telemarketing resources, and with the roll-out remains unchanged, as we seek to benefit from the further simplication of our New Web Platform to be launched in 2013 14, we have the foundation ofour business structures and leverage our regional capabilities across on which to build a truly differentiating multichannel proposition.
As such, I remain confident in our ability to implement our strategic vision whilst optimising our financial performance.
This makes us positive for the Groups opportunities in the year ahead and beyond.
Laurence Bain Chief Executive officer
