Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW 2013 rising cash flows, projects progressing and exploration success Robin Allan Neil Hawkings Andrew Lodge Director, Business Units Director, Falkland Islands Exploration Director PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT EXPLORATION Strategy Strategy Strategy We seek to maximise value from our We aim to replenish our Premier is building an increasingly current production base, which is development portfolio with good material exploration programme, focused around floating production quality projects through new targeting high impact opportunities systems and our Asia gas position, acquisitions and or successful in known geologies rifts and to generate cash flows which exploration.
We focus on projects frontal fold belts in emerging are either reinvested in high where we can utilise our strong plays.
We are also reducing return opportunities or distributed operating capabilities and are exposure to mature basins and to shareholders.
best positioned to add value.
Outlook Outlook Outlook 2014 production guidance Four operated projects Dua, 13 exploration and appraisal of 58-63 kboepd Pelikan, Naga and Solan wells planned for 2014 targeting expected on-stream in 2014 140 mmboe Significant cash flow growth underpinned by Solan and Project sanction of Catcher Four exploration and appraisal Catcher projects in the first half of 2014 wells in the Falkland Islands in 2015 Bream partner sanction decision by year-end 2014 Maturing high impact prospects in Brazil, Iraq and Norway for Sea Lion sanction in 2015 2015 16 drilling Continued high grading of exploration portfolio 12 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Delivering our vision Mike Welton Chairman The industry context We now look forward The global economy showed tentative signs of recovery during 2013. to the future production Energy demand grew modestly whilst commodity prices remained broadly growth that our portfolio stable for the third year running.
Costs have risen in certain areas of the oil is capable of delivering services sector and governments around the world continue to seek to extract higher fiscal take from the industry.
This has led investors to question and anticipate excellent the return on capital across the sector.
Nonetheless discerning investments rates of return from in good quality projects still deliver good returns.
Debt capital markets our key new projects.
remain liquid and offer ready access to  companies Four fields are due on-stream with strong balance sheets.
in 2014 and solid progress was Premiers performance made during the year on our Premier continues to generate strong profit, rising cash flows and a healthy longer-term developments Catcher, Bream and Sea Lion.
2013 also saw a much improved year of exploration, and an increase in our reserves and resources to 794 mmboe 2012: 773 mmboe.
We strive to ensure that return on capital is maximised and that our financial strength and investment profile are balanced.
I wrote in my 2012 statement that with the Huntington field on-stream, production would rise to a run rate of around 75 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day kboepd.
It has been frustrating that, despite new production during the year, the portfolio also suffered from some operational issues which were largely beyond the companys control.
Save for a short period towards the end of the year we did not exceed our target.
The specific issues we faced however have been resolved, we have learned the lesson of not planning for the unexpected and have adjusted our expectations accordingly for the future.
We now look forward to the future production growth that our portfolio is capable of delivering and anticipate excellent rates of return from our key new projects.
Four fields are due on-stream in 2014 and solid progress was made during the year on our longer-term developments Catcher, Bream and Sea Lion.
The Solan field is scheduled to come on-stream in the fourth quarter of this year, we expect to pass final government sanction on Catcher shortly, and to be close to sanction on Sea Lion by the end of the year.
Our exploration programme in 2013 was successful with six discoveries out of seven wells drilled.
The Luno II discovery in Norway is of particular note, with follow-on drilling expected in 2014.
We also had success with near-field discoveries in Indonesia, Pakistan and the UK.
We were pleased to be th awarded three blocks in Brazil in the 11 Licensing Round which are in proven plays, but relatively under-explored, and we continue to seek early stage exploration acreage to add to the portfolio.
In 2014 and 2015 we particularly look forward to the results of our drilling in Indonesia, Norway, Kenya, and a four well programme in the Falkland Islands.
Rationalisation of the portfolio has become a key focus for Premier this year.
During 2013 we realised value for undeveloped assets in Norway and Vietnam and this programme will continue into 2014.
The group also raised some US$700 million of new debt financing in the fourth quarter on very favourable terms and we go into a re-financing of our main bank facility later this year in a strong position.
The combination of options in our asset portfolio and continuing access to debt capital markets gives us significant flexibility to manage our financial position on a prudent basis.
Health, safety and environmental matters continue to be of paramount importance to us.
Our production operations management systems at Balmoral in the UK, and at Anoa and Gajah Baru in Indonesia retained their OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications, as did our worldwide drilling management systems.
We reiterate our commitment to protecting our people, our assets, our revenues and our reputation through maintaining the highest possible standards.
We continue to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index in recognition of our health, safety, environmental and social performance.
Future plans In 12 months time I intend to be able to report further continued progress across the portfolio: growth in operating cash flow: start-up of the Pelikan, Naga, Dua and Solan fields as planned: sanction of the Catcher project and commencement of facility construction: significant progress in the front-end engineering and design FEED studies for Sea Lion: realisation of value from our disposal programme: further success in our exploration drilling endeavours: the addition of acreage to the portfolio and that our health, safety and environment HSE record is acceptable to us and our regulators.
Members of the Board, including the non-executives, have had frequent direct contact with our leading shareholders during the last few months and I am confident that the plans we have in place are strongly supported.
Board personnel An immediate priority for the Board is the recruitment of a Chief Executive following the announcement in February 2014 of Simon Locketts intention to step down from the position.
We are grateful to Simon for agreeing to ensure a smooth transition by remaining in post until a successor is appointed and we thank him for devoting so much energy, dedication and spirit to the role.
During Simons tenure the business has grown significantly in production, reserves and resources and operating cash flow and we wish him well in future endeavours.
14 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued In July, we were very sad to announce the death of Professor David Roberts.
He had contributed enormously to the Board during his seven years with us, by application of his extensive industry experience and knowledge.
Professor Roberts passing deprived the Board particularly of expertise and skills in the field of exploration.
In January 2014, we were able to announce the expected addition to the Board in May of David Bamford, who brings considerable experience in technical and exploration roles at operational and Board level.
We also announced the arrival of Anne Marie Cannon as a new Non-Executive Director.
Anne Marie brings over 30 years experience in senior and Board level roles as an adviser and executive in the sector.
We welcome both David and Anne Marie to the Board.
Shareholder returns Our objective remains to deliver consistent, measurable capital growth to our shareholders, with exposure to additional returns from a disciplined investment in exploration.
Premiers share price fell by seven per cent overall during the year which although disappointing represented an outperformance relative to many of our peers.
Over the five years prior to the end of 2013 the overall return to shareholders stands at 58 per cent.
We are of course keen to see this performance improve going forward.
In 2012, our confidence in our growing cash flows was reflected in the proposed dividend which was approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM in June 2013.
We said at the time that future payouts would depend on the progression of cash flows over time and our capital requirements for our projects.
I am pleased that the Board is again proposing a dividend for 2013, of 5 pence per share, to be approved by shareholders at the May 2014 AGM.
We are also intending to initiate a share buyback programme, reflecting the significant gap between our share price and underlying asset value.
This programme will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Board.
On behalf of the Board as well as myself, I would like to express my appreciation of the continued hard work and dedication of Premiers staff, all of whom are also shareholders and share the disappointment of a depressed share price that does not reflect the underlying value of the company, but who continue to inspire us with their enthusiasm and commitment.
Mike Welton Chairman CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW As our asset portfolio grows, we are developing the project execution and production operations skills Creating to ensure that our projects can be delivered successfully and in a cost strong returns effective manner.
Simon Lockett Chief Executive Return on investment capital % Strategy and Business Model Our strategy is to grow shareholder value through investment in high quality oil and gas projects within a disciplined financial framework.
We seek to maintain the highest standards of corporate responsibility.
20 We look to identify and develop projects where we can realise superior returns.
15.4 15 We have a track record of robust returns on investment.
11.5 Through recent successful developments such as Chim So in Vietnam and Gajah 10 Baru in Indonesia, we have grown the confidence and capability to take on 5 complex operated development projects, typically offshore and utilising floating production systems.
As our asset portfolio grows, we are developing the project 0 2012 2013 execution and production operations skills to ensure that our projects can be delivered successfully and in a cost effective manner.
To underpin the longer-term value of the business we explore for oil and gas in Gearing both our historical areas of operation and in emerging basins that offer the potential % for material upside.
We target basins with rift and frontal fold belt structures in which we can draw on the expertise we have gained finding oil and gas in these types of basins in Indonesia, the North Sea and Pakistan.
Our disciplined financial framework is designed to maintain a sound balance 50 40.6 sheet and strong funding position.
We plan our business on a conservative base 36.2 40 oil price currently US$85 bbl real, ensuring that we maintain adequate 30 covenant headroom and gearing levels that are well within a Board guideline 20 maximum of 50 per cent.
We continually seek to high-grade our asset portfolio including disposing of assets that are no longer core and by selectively making 10 acquisitions where we believe our position is advantaged.
Through this approach 0 2012 2013 to portfolio management we can focus the efforts of our people, drive cash flow growth, and manage our risk exposure.
14.0 2011 36.0 2011 16 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued High potential incident HIPO frequency Our combination of robust cash generation and conservative financing per million man-hours approach means that we benefit from excellent access to debt markets and continuing strong market appetite from debt investors.
3 In summary, we are pleased to continue to offer our shareholders the opportunity to benefit from sustained distributions, value growth within 2 a disciplined financial framework, and the potential for upside from 1.3 selective exposure to the most promising exploration plays.
1 0.7 Key Performance Indicators Premier measures its performance in line with its strategic objectives of 0 09 10 11 12 13 growing the value of the underlying assets of the business and creating Actual significant returns for shareholders.
Specifically, key performance indicators KPIs are used to measure progress against agreed targets in the areas of safety, production performance, growth in reserves and resources and the Total recordable injuries rate TRIR maintenance of financial strength.
These KPIs also link to senior per million man-hours managements remuneration.
4 3.4 Operating safely Premier is committed to operating responsibly in every part of the 3 business.
Success in these areas protects our assets, our revenue streams 1.8 2 and our reputation.
Health and Safety performance is measured using total recordable injury 1 rate TRIR per million man-hours and near miss high potential incidents 0 HIPO per million man-hours.
Safety performance data includes both 09 10 11 12 13 Premier employees and contractors.
Actual In 2013, Premier achieved a TRIR performance of 3.4 per million man-hours 2012: 1.8.
Despite a weaker performance relative to last year, the majority Working interest of recordable incidents were of a minor nature.
The total number of manproduction hours increased from 6 million hours in 2012 to 12 million in 2013.
Premier kboepd continues to focus on health and safety procedures and standards, provide 70 frequent training and ongoing communication to employees and contractors.
58.2 57.7 60 Premiers HIPO performance improved in 2013, reaching its lowest level 50 over the last six years and well within the target of 1.5 HIPOs per million 40 man-hours.
Premier continues to ensure that key lessons are learned and 30 disseminated for all HIPOs and company-wide Safety Alerts are issued, 20 citing key causes and preventative actions required.
10 Building the strong production base 0 One of the metrics by which Premiers growth performance is measured is 10 11 12 13 by the compound annual growth rate in net asset value NAV per share.
Premier targets and, over the eight-year period to end-2013, has achieved a 10 per cent growth in NAV per share per year.
Reserves and resources mmboe Premier also aims to build on its existing production base in order to sustain Proven and probable reserves and continue to deliver growth.
This is measured using daily average Contingent resources production and the number of development projects being brought through 794 773 800 to sanction.
Average daily production in 2013 was 58.2 kboepd.
2013 700 achieved first oil and gas from the UK North Sea fields Huntington and 600 Rochelle.
Premier is targeting average production of 58-63 kboepd for 2014.
500 Premiers production goal is underpinned by the pipeline of development 400 projects being progressed across the portfolio, and the ability to 300 200 commercialise and bring on-stream these projects is key to the companys 100 success.
In 2013, Premier completed the Anoa Phase 4 compression project 0 and progressed the recently sanctioned Solan, Pelikan, Naga and Dua 10 11 12 13 projects towards first oil and gas in 2014.
Premier also progressed the Catcher project towards sanction this year.
08 08 09 09 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 Realised oil price Delivering growth per barrel Premier looks to create future growth through exploration in focused geologies $ and value-led acquisitions.
Progress towards this growth ambition is measured by reserves replacement, risked prospective resource added and finding costs.
120 111.4 109.0 100 Premier also undertakes acquisitions to access additional resources.
In 2013, the company increased its stake in the Bream project in Norway and in two licences 80 situated in the North Falkland Basin which include the Isobel Elaine and Jayne 60 East prospects.
More recently the company farmed into Block 2B, onshore Kenya.
40 A successful year in exploration also added to Premiers reserve and resource 20 base.
Notable successes included the Luno II and Bonneville discoveries in the North Sea, the gas discovery at Matang in Indonesia, and the Kadanwari-32 well 0 10 11 12 13 in Pakistan.
Reserves and resources increased to 794 mmboe 2012: 773 mmboe.
In addition, 2013 saw Premier add approximately 72 mmboe of contingent resources and in Realised gas price excess of 207 million barrels of unrisked prospective resources to its portfolio.
per mscf $ Premier added reserves and resources through exploration at a pre-tax finding cost of US$5.3 barrel bbl during 2013.
9 8.34 8.32 8 Maintaining financial strength 7 A key strategic objective of the group is to maintain financial strength in order to 6 invest in the future of the business and deliver significant returns to shareholders.
5 Despite production constraints at the Huntington and Chim So fields the company 4 3 registered a strong profit after tax of US$234.0 million 2012: US$252.0 million.
2 The operating cash flow of the company in 2013 was US$832.6 million 2012: 1 US$808.2 million.
0 10 11 12 13 Premiers portfolio of crudes was sold at an average of US$109.0 bbl 2012: US$111.4 bbl.
Realised average gas prices, a significant portion of which tracks oil price movement, achieved US$8.32 thousand standard cubic feet mscf in Operating cash flow 2013 2012: US$8.34 mscf.
$ million Operating costs per barrel of oil equivalent boe rose to US$19.7 in 2013 2012: US$16.2 boe.
Rising cash flows, along with successful bank and bond 832.6 9 90 00 0 808.2 market transactions, provide Premier with the funding required for future growth.
8 80 00 0 Ability to add new capital and sufficient covenant headroom are monitored closely 7 70 00 0 to ensure that the company has the funds to meet forecast cash requirements and 6 60 00 0 maintain liquidity throughout the cycle.
5 50 00 0 4 40 00 0 3 30 00 0 2 20 00 0 1 10 00 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 Operating costs $ boe 19.7 20 18 16.2 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 10 11 12 13 09 09 09 09 18 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Our operations In 2013, we saw good performance across the portfolio, offset by some significant operational issues which held back short-term growth.
Production from the Balmoral area was impacted by a temporary shutdown of the facility and the shut-in of five wells on the Balmoral field for maintenance.
The non-operated Huntington field began producing in April but was restricted due to start-up problems with the gas compression system, issues with the gas detection system and operational issues on the gas export pipeline.
These issues have been resolved and Huntington achieved rates of up to 35 kboepd gross from December onwards.
The Rochelle field was brought on-stream in October following earlier storm damage to the East Rochelle well.
The Kyle field continues to await reinstatement of the production facilities scheduled for September 2014.
The Premier-operated Chim So field in Vietnam produced strongly for the first half of the year.
Gas export was interrupted in August following third party damage to the pipeline forcing a curtailment of oil production.
The pipeline was rapidly repaired and production returned to normal levels in November.
Demand for Premiers Indonesian gas in the Singapore market remained buoyant and our Anoa and Gajah Baru platforms achieved record rates of production.
The contractual share for the Natuna Sea Block A was again increased and overall Premier-operated facilities contributed 52 per cent of the gas delivered to Singapore through the West Natuna Transportation System WNTS pipeline.
In Pakistan, production fell as expected as natural field decline at the Zamzama, Bhit and Qadirpur fields was partially offset by increased production at Kadanwari.
Material progress was made on our development projects during 2013.
In Indonesia, fabrication and installation of the Pelikan and Naga facilities were completed.
Development drilling will start in the second quarter of 2014 and first gas from both is expected in the second half.
In Vietnam, the subsea structures and other equipment for tying Dua back to the Chim So FPSO were completed and installed and first oil is planned for mid-2014, following the development drilling programme.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 19 In the UK, the construction of the jacket, topsides and tank for the Solan project continued during 2013.
To achieve the target of first oil in the fourth quarter of this year, it will be necessary to complete the installation during the available summer weather window in the West of Shetlands.
The Catcher project reached the point of sanction and contract award, both of which are imminent.
In the Falkland Islands, the Sea Lion project passed through concept selection at the end of the year and is now entering the FEED phase.
Premier had a strong year of exploration drilling with six discoveries out of seven wells.
We were particularly pleased with the results from the Luno II well in Norway, and we also had near-field discoveries in Indonesia, Pakistan and the UK.
We continued to pursue acreage in under-explored areas and were delighted with the award of three blocks in proven basins in Brazils th 11 Licensing Round.
13 firm wells are planned for our 2014 exploration programme and we are particularly looking forward to results from drilling in Indonesia in the first half of the year, with campaigns in Norway and the Falkland Islands to follow.
During 2013 we divested our equity interests in Block 07 03 in Vietnam ?
` - containing the C R ong Do discovery that we made in 2009 and in licence PL378 in Norway containing the Grosbeak discovery that we made in 2009.
We also relinquished various exploration licences in the UK North Sea, so as to be better able to focus our capital on our best prospects.
We will continue our programme of asset disposals during 2014.
As at 31 December 2013 proven and probable 2P reserves, on a working interest basis, were 259 mmboe 2012: 292 mmboe.
Increased resource estimates in the Falkland Islands, and discoveries at Luno II in Norway and Matang in Indonesia have boosted resources so we ended the year with 794 mmboe, up from 773 mmboe one year earlier.
Proven and probable 2P reserves and 2C 2P reserves contingent resources mmboe mmboe 1 January 2013 292 773 Production 21 21 Net additions, revisions and disposals 12 42 31 December 2013 259 794 Simon Lockett Chief Executive 20 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Falkland Islands High return project EXTENSIVE CONCEPTUAL ENGINEERING AND DESIGN WORK WAS UNDERTAKEN ON THE SEA LION PROJECT THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
A revised development scheme involving a tension leg platform TLP development was found to offer a number of advantages over the previous new build FPSO scheme and the TLP scheme was chosen to be progressed through FEED during 2014.
Premier is targeting project sanction for the first phase of the development in 2015.
Plans for an exploration campaign, expected to commence in 2015, were progressed on the basis of a rig share with other operators.
Highlights and achievements Concept selection achieved: a TLP was found to offer a more robust and lower cost development scheme than a new build FPSO scheme Prospect inventory matured We are delighted to have Exposure to exploration upside increased and ownership achieved concept selection interest in the three licence blocks aligned on the Sea Lion project and plan to award FEED contracts in the first half of 2014.
We have also completed the maturation of our prospect inventory and look forward to a four well exploration and appraisal programme in 2015.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 DEVELOPMENT During the year the project team, in conjunction with consulting engineering companies, progressed a comprehensive set of studies as part of the concept selection phase to define the development plan.
These studies included detailed work in areas such as metocean studies, facilities design including turret design and topsides layout, flow assurance methodologies, subsea equipment layout and installation methods, reservoir studies and drilling trajectories.
A phased approach to development was selected.
It is envisaged that an initial northern development recovering 293 million barrels mmbbls from Sea Lion using 32 wells, will be followed by a southern area development tied back to the host facilities to recover the remaining reserves.
The second phase of development will be optimised to incorporate any additional exploration or appraisal success.
Neil Hawkings Director, Falkland Islands A development concept involving a TLP with an integral drilling rig was selected as it offers a more robust and lower cost development scheme than a new build FPSO-based scheme.
Work is now ongoing to optimise the design specifications for the TLP scheme and to prepare the documentation for FEED which is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2014.
A draft field development plan FDP will be submitted by the end of 2014 and project sanction is expected in 2015.
Given Premiers current 60 per cent level of equity in the development, a decision has been taken to seek a suitable partner for the project.
22 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Falkland Islands continued EXPLORATION The prospect inventory has been matured in collaboration with partners, resulting in a planned exploration programme of four wells with multiple stacked targets.
The programme will include a well to confirm the presence of a gas cap in the west of Sea Lion.
Premier is working to participate in a multi-operator drilling programme starting in 2015.
A rig tender has been issued to the market and bids are being evaluated.
In October, Premier and Rockhopper announced they had signed a Heads of Agreement with Falkland Oil and Gas Ltd FOGL to farm-in to licences PL004a and PL004c, which are adjacent to the Sea Lion development and include the Isobel Elaine and Jayne East prospects.
The transaction, which is due to complete in the first quarter of 2014, will result in the increase of Premiers equity in both licences to 36 per cent and assumption of operatorship.
Outlook Progress detailed engineering studies and farm down process Final project sanction targeted for 2015 Exploration of the remaining potential of the North Falkland Basin SEA LION PHASE 1 DEVELOPMENT TLP Offtake Floating Storage Tension Leg Tanker & Offloading Platform Concept Selection Highlights Permanent Drilling Rig Minimal Subsea Infrastructure Phased Development Improved Economics Gas Disposal Wells Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Indonesia Building on our strong gas market share in Singapore IN 2013, PREMIER CONTINUED TO INCREASE GAS DELIVERABILITY FROM ITS NATUNA SEA FACILITIES FOLLOWING THE SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF THE ANOA PHASE 4 COMPRESSION PROJECT.
The Pelikan and Naga projects were progressed towards first gas in 2014.
Exploration planning work also continued in preparation for the arrival of two drilling rigs in the first quarter of 2014.
One rig will be devoted to drilling on the Natuna Sea Block A Production Sharing Contract PSC and the second will drill two exploration wells on the Tuna PSC.
Highlights and achievements Natuna Sea Block As contractual share of Gas Sales Agreement GSA 1 increased to 39.4 per cent Deliverability in 2013 Anoa Phase 4 successfully completed: adding remained strong with both 15 per cent export capacity Anoa and Gajah Baru Average price of $17 mscf achieved GSA1 achieving record production Gas discovery at Matang rates.
We look forward to bringing on-stream Pelikan and Naga in 2014 and continuing to build our capacity to deliver gas into Singapore.
24 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Indonesia continued PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Singapore demand remained robust during the year, despite the arrival of LNG imports, at well above minimum contract volumes.
The Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A sold an average of 208 billion British thermal units per day BBtud gross 2012: 217 BBtud from its gas export facilities.
The non-operated Kakap Block contributed gas sales of a further 34 BBtud gross 2012: 33 BBtud.
Gross liquids production from the Block A Anoa field averaged 1,700 barrels of oil per day bopd 2012: 2,400 bopd and 3,700 bopd from Kakap 2012: 3,500 bopd.
Overall, net production from Indonesia in 2013, on a working interest basis, was 13,700 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd 2012: 14,200 boepd and Premier-operated facilities provided the majority 52 per cent of the gas supplied to Singapore through the WNTS pipeline.
Despite a necessary shutdown for the final completion of Anoa Phase 4, production performance for the year remained strong.
The Anoa field averaged 126 BBtud gross 2012: 144 BBtud capturing 39.9 per cent of GSA 1 supply against a contractual share of 36.9 per cent.
The contractual share for Natuna Sea Block A for 2014 has now been increased to 39.4 per cent of GSA1.
Sales from Gajah Baru, which are dedicated to GSA2, averaged 81 BBtud gross 2012: 72 BBtud.
Both the Gajah Baru and Anoa platforms each achieved record peak production rates in excess of 200 BBtud.
The fabrication and installation of the Pelikan and Naga projects progressed well during the year.
The two gas fields will maintain the profiles of GSA1 and GSA2 with 150 billion cubic feet bcf of reserves.
Onshore fabrication of both the Pelikan and Naga wellhead platforms was completed on time and within budget and the facilities were loaded out and installed in the third quarter.
Planning for the development drilling campaign is now far advanced.
First gas from both fields is expected in the second half of 2014.
The Phase 4 brownfield project to upgrade the Anoa gas production facility and add 15 per cent export capacity was successfully completed, tested and brought into service within budget in the third quarter.
Over its service life this compression project will deliver up to 200 bcf of reserves from the Anoa field into Singapore.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 On the non-operated Block A Aceh, the operator continued to progress the gas development project.
All engineering, procurement, construction and installation EPCI bids for the facilities are now in place and an in-principle agreement reached on a revised gas price with the end user and the Indonesian government.
The success of the Matang-1 well, which discovered gas in April 2013, caused the joint venture to consider the potential for alternative development scenarios.
Premier will seek to dispose of its interest in Block A Aceh in 2014.
EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL In 2012, the Anoa WL-5X exploration well flowed 17 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd of gas from the deep fractured sands of the Lama formation beneath the Anoa field on Natuna Sea Block A.
The well opened up a new play in the West Natuna area and in 2013 a number Roberto Lorato of Lama formation prospects have been developed.
Premier plans to drill the first of these President prospects with the Ratu Gajah exploration well which will spud in the first quarter of 2014.
Premier Oil Indonesia Anoa WL-5X will be followed up in late 2014 or early 2015 with the nearby Anoa West-1 Lama appraisal development well.
Premier continues to mature additional Lama prospects in the area for drilling in 2015 and beyond.
The Matang-1 exploration well on Block A Aceh reached total depth on 21 March 2013 and penetrated over 90 feet into a gas accumulation at the top of the Bampo Limestone formation.
The well was subsequently tested and flowed gas at commercial rates of 25 mmscfd.
The gas is relatively sweet and lean compared to the gas found in the surrounding fields in Block A Aceh.
The gross resource estimate for the Matang structure remains in line with the pre-drill estimate of 100 to 400 bcf.
The joint venture is currently planning an appraisal well on Matang in 2015.
In 2013, Premier prepared for oil exploration drilling in Kuda Laut and Singa Laut, two adjacent prospects in the Premier-operated Tuna PSC.
The Kuda Laut-1 well, which will drill through Miocene sands within a four-way dip closure, is scheduled to spud in the first quarter of 2014.
The well will then be side-tracked to Singa Laut to drill an adjoining three-way dip closed structure with sandstone reservoirs in both the lower Miocene and Oligocene sections.
Outlook Pelikan and Naga due on-stream in 2014 Kuda Laut and Singa Laut to be drilled in 2014 Two wells targeting the deeper Lama play planned in 2014 26 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Norway Continued active exploration PREMIER CONTINUED TO PROGRESS THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BREAM PROJECT TOWARDS SANCTION FOLLOWING THE TRANSFER OF OPERATORSHIP.
The company also continued to build on its position on the emerging Mandal High play through the award of two operated licences in the Award in Pre-defined Areas APA 2013 Licensing Round.
Prospect maturation of the Myrhauk well, which will be Premiers first test of the play, is progressing to schedule and drilling is expected to commence late 2014, or early 2015.
Luno II North Luno II Central Luno II S. Prospect 16 4-6 Luno II 16 5-5 appraisal We look forward to Premiers first test of the Mandal High, where we have Balder Top Chalk BCU built up a strong acreage position, as well as to the Premier-operated Bream project progressing Basement towards sanction decision.
Ragnarrock Luno Apollo Johan Sverdrup Highlights and achievements Acquired operatorship of the Bream project Significant oil discovery at Luno II on the PL 359 south west margin of the Utsira High Luno II discovery Profitable sale of the Grosbeak discovery Built on acreage position around Mandal High with rig secured for 2014 2015 drilling BCU Time Map 10km C. I.
100ms North 1 Central 1 Discovery North 2 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 DEVELOPMENT Commercialising and gaining control of the Bream project was a key focus during 2013, with Premier taking over operatorship of the field development via the purchase of an additional 10 per cent equity in licence PL407 in July.
A second parallel transaction was also agreed which facilitated equity alignment between PL407 and the adjacent Premier-operated PL406, which contains the Mackerel discovery.
The equity alignment of these two joint ventures simplifies the development of Bream and the tie-back of the Mackerel field as a single integrated project.
The transactions were completed and operatorship formally transferred in December.
A formal concept selection decision will now take place during the first quarter of 2014 and an investment decision is planned for late 2014, or early 2015.
Nic Braley The Bream development concept is planned to be a FPSO with subsea production and water Business Unit Manager injection wells.
The Mackerel development will be a 17 km subsea tie-back to the Bream Premier Oil Norway facilities.
An exploration well on the adjacent Herring prospect is planned during the development phase and, if successful, would contribute additional resources to the overall project.
Work continued on the non-operated Fry field to identify a viable development concept.
Technical studies for a joint processing hub involving other fields in the area were completed during the first half of the year.
Commercial discussions with other field owners and further subsurface and facilities studies continue regarding identified options.
28 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Norway continued EXPLORATION A significant discovery was made by the Luno II well on licence PL359 in May 2013.
The production test achieved an average flow rate of 2,044 bopd of good quality 36 degrees API crude oil through a 48 64 inch choke, with a gas to oil ratio of 1,012 standard cubic feet per barrel.
The discovery will be appraised in 2014.
Premier continued to mature its operated position in and around the Mandal High area.
A site survey was obtained and a drilling rig contracted for the Myrhauk prospect with a spud date planned for the end of 2014 or early 2015.
Building on regional knowledge and extensive datasets covering the Mandal High, Premier applied for, and was awarded, two new operated licences PL725 and PL726 under the APA 2013 Licensing Round.
The two new blocks are an eastern extension of the Upper and Middle Jurassic Mandal High plays and contain large stratigraphic traps that will be further evaluated using re-processed seismic data.
Both blocks were secured on a two-year drill or drop option.
As part of Premiers ongoing portfolio management, licences PL378 and PL378B, which contain the Grosbeak discovery and a potential extension of the Skarfjell discovery, were sold to Capricorn Norge, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cairn Energy plc, for US$16.0 million in cash, at a profit of US$9.4 million.
Outlook Bream project sanction decision expected by year-end Active exploration and appraisal programme planned including Premiers first test of the Mandal High Continued focus on portfolio management Production Water Injection Manifold Manifold Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 29 BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Pakistan Near-field exploration successes IN PAKISTAN, PREMIER HAD ITS EIGHTH CONSECUTIVE EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL SUCCESS IN 2013 WHICH, IN CONJUNCTION WITH A SUCCESSFUL INFILL AND STEP-OUT PROGRAMME, CONTINUED TO SLOW THE NATURAL DECLINE OF OUR PRODUCING FIELDS.
Five near-field exploration and appraisal wells are planned to be drilled in 2014.
Highlights and achievements Average production of 14.9 kboepd with 96 per cent uptime achieved Another successful year Infill wells established new productive zones in our Badhra, with the drill bit has ensured that Bhit and Kadanwari fields we continue to partially offset the Seventh and eighth consecutive exploration and appraisal natural decline of our producing success in Pakistan fields in Pakistan, resulting in strong cash flows from the business unit.
30 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Pakistan continued PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Average production in Pakistan during 2013 was 14,900 boepd net to Premier, around five per cent lower than in 2012 15,600 boepd.
Annual production uptime for the fields was 96 per cent.
Production from the Qadirpur gas field averaged 3,600 boepd net to Premier in 2013, a four per cent decline on the fields 2012 production 3,700 boepd.
This was due in part to the natural decline of the field but also the shutdown of a power plant which resulted in increased flare gas and process losses.
In a bid to maintain current production levels, two new large centrifugal compressors have been commissioned.
Production from the Kadanwari gas field averaged 2,900 boepd net to Premier during 2013, 11 per cent higher than 2012 2,600 boepd.
This year-on-year growth was a result of the successful restoration of the K-27 well, a full-year of production from the K-29 development well, which was tied-in to production at the end of 2012, and the K-32 well which came on-stream in July 2013.
The Zamzama gas field produced 5,100 boepd net to Premier during 2013 2012: 5,800 boepd as the field entered a phase of natural decline.
The Zam-9 well was successfully tied-in at the end of January 2013.
The field is currently producing around 4,000 boepd net to Premier.
Production from Bhit Badhra gas fields averaged 3,300 boepd net to Premier during 2013, representing a seven per cent decline year-on-year 2012: 3,500 boepd, primarily driven by the natural decline in the Bhit gas field.
This decline was partially offset by higher production from the new Badhra area B wells, and two subsequent development wells are planned in 2014.
A compressor reconfiguration project is being considered to improve ultimate recovery and would consist of installing new compressors at Bhit and the relocation of up to three existing Bhit compressors to Badhra to maximise well deliverability.
Development of the Zarghun South gas field, in which Premier holds a 3.75 per cent working interest, continued through 2013.
The laying of the gas pipeline is nearing completion and first gas remains on track for the third quarter of 2014 with an expected initial run rate of 20 mmscfd.
All costs continue to be carried by the operator.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL In March, Premier made a discovery with the K-32 well which was subsequently tied into the Kadanwari production facilities.
The same play has also been found to extend into the recently drilled K-35 development well.
The third tight gas pilot well, K-31H, was drilled horizontally into the targeted G-Sand, where six hydraulic fractures were carried out.
Initial flow rates were encouraging and final tie-in is expected shortly.
An exploration programme of two wells is scheduled for 2014, including the K-36 well which is currently drilling.
In May 2013, the BBN-2 well was spudded and the appraisal of the two new Mughalkot sand levels was successfully completed in October.
The production test of the new sands achieved a commingled flow rate of 30 mmscfd through a 181 64 inch choke.
In addition, gas has also flowed to surface from Parh Limestone in an open-hole test.
Development of this gas will be Mehran Inayat Mirza carried out after a field study.
Business Unit Manager Premier Oil Pakistan Outlook Five exploration and appraisal wells planned for 2014 Infill development programme ongoing Sanction of Bhit Badhra compression reconfiguration project aimed at improving ultimate recovery 32 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Mauritania THE CHINGUETTI FIELD CONTINUES TO GENERATE POSITIVE CASH FLOW, AND EXPLORATION DRILLING IN THE AREA HAS RESUMED.
PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT In Mauritania, 2013 working interest production from the Chinguetti field averaged 600 boepd 2012: 600 boepd.
The execution phase of the Banda development is proceeding following approval by the government of Mauritania of the FDP.
Gas sales negotiations and arrangement of payment guarantees with prospective buyers are under way and bids for major components including the subsea production system, umbilical, pipeline and process plant have been received and are under evaluation.
Project approval is expected by the second quarter of 2014.
Subsurface studies of Tevet were completed in May 2013 and a conditional declaration of commerciality was submitted to the government of Mauritania to develop, subject to market availability, the Tevet gas resources 69 bcf gross through the Banda facilities.
EXPLORATION The Tapendar-1 well on licence PSC C-10, targeting the untapped deeper cretaceous potential, is expected to spud in March 2014, with the results of that well in the second quarter of 2014.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW United Kingdom Rising cash flows RISING PRODUCTION FROM TWO NEW FIELDS, HUNTINGTON AND ROCHELLE, UNDERPINNED A STRONG RISE IN CASH FLOWS FOR THE UK BUSINESS UNIT.
Development activity continues to focus on delivering the Solan project in the fourth quarter of 2014 and on progressing the Catcher development to project sanction.
Premier also continued to add valuable resources to its UK North Sea portfolio from near-field exploration success at Bonneville.
Highlights and achievements Production from UK fields averaged 14.9 kboepd, up 23 per cent Solan project progressed with tank, topsides and jacket over 80 per cent complete Catcher Field Development Plan submitted to DECC, project budget submitted to partners In 2013 we brought two new Continued exploration portfolio management through selective fields on-stream, progressed licence divestment the Premier-operated Solan and Catcher projects and enjoyed a successful exploration campaign.
We look forward to rising cash flows underpinned by our new developments and a continued focus on optimising levels of operating efficiency.
34 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW United Kingdom continued PRODUCTION Production from Premiers UK fields increased to 14,900 boepd, compared to 12,100 boepd during 2012.
Strong production was achieved from the Wytch Farm field as a result of two new Frome wells being brought on-stream, the successful completion of several well workovers and the restart of water injection at Furzey Island.
Operating efficiency from Wytch Farm also improved, averaging 87 per cent, up from 82 per cent for the same period last year.
The Scott and Telford fields also performed above expectations due to improved operating efficiency and a successful well intervention programme.
Production from the Balmoral area was lower due to a temporary shutdown of the Balmoral floating production vessel FPV in April and the temporary shut-in of five Balmoral wells, the Stirling 20z well and the Brenda D3 well.
In October, a diving support vessel was utilised for a successful repair of the subsea template to enable production to restart from Stirling 20z and two Balmoral wells B3 and B5.
A successful workover utilising a well intervention vessel enabled Brenda D3 to re-start in early December.
Further well maintenance is planned for the second quarter of 2014.
The Kyle field remained shut-in during the year.
The Banff FPSO, which handles Kyle production, was damaged during exceptionally bad weather at the end of 2011.
Since then it has been off location while repairs are undertaken.
Property damage and business interruption insurance claims have been settled to the value of US$55 million.
The field reinstatement project has been sanctioned, with the field expected to restart production in the third quarter of 2014.
The non-operated Huntington development was successfully completed in April and production commenced via the Voyager Spirit FPSO.
Initial production was restricted following start-up issues with the gas compression system and subsequent concerns with gas venting.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 Both of these issues have since been resolved.
A new power turbine was installed in August to address the vibration issues associated with the second compression train and the primary hydrocarbon blanketing system, which recycles gas from cargo tanks, was fully commissioned in August.
However, production remained below capacity in the fourth quarter due to a gas export restriction imposed by the CATS gas export system operator.
The restrictions were progressively lifted from November onwards and the field achieved a run rate of 35 kboepd gross in December.
On the non-operated Rochelle field, the West Rochelle well was successfully completed and tested in June.
It was tied back to the Scott platform and commenced production in October.
Rochelle achieved a peak daily spot production rate of 2,438 boepd net to Premier from the West Rochelle single producer.
The second and final production well, E2, was successfully tied back to the Scott platform in January.
During the restart of production a subsea Mike Skitmore Business Unit Manager construction isolation valve failed to open, preventing start-up and production from both Premier Oil UK East and West Rochelle wells.
A diving support vessel is currently in the field, has opened the valve and production is expected to start imminently.
DEVELOPMENT The Premier-operated Solan project, West of Shetland, is now well into the execution phase.
Drilling of the four wells two producers and two water injectors commenced in April.
Drilling operations have been suspended as planned between November and March during the severe winter period and the rig sublet elsewhere.
A subsea storage tank is under construction in Dubai, with a target to sail away in mid-2014.
Meanwhile construction of the topsides and jackets is progressing at Burntisland Fabricators in Fife to meet sail away and installation by the Thialf Heerema vessel in mid-2014.
Hook up and commissioning is planned to be undertaken prior to the end of the summer weather window West of Shetlands ahead of first oil, scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The field is expected to produce approximately 40 mmbbls gross Premier equity 60 per cent with an estimated initial production rate of 24 kbopd gross following ramp up.
Considerable progress has been achieved on the Premier-operated Catcher area project since the development concept a subsea tie-back of the Catcher, Varadero and Burgman fields to a FPSO was agreed in December 2012.
Reservoir modelling has been completed and well locations and sequence have also been optimised.
Tenders for the well systems, Christmas trees and a heavy duty jack-up rig were received in July and August and have been fully evaluated.
It is envisaged that development drilling, which will entail the continuous drilling of up to 14 producers and eight water injectors, will commence in 2015 and continue beyond first oil.
Subsea FEED for the Catcher area project has also been completed.
Premier received the EPCI bids for the subsea facilities in October and bid evaluation is on schedule to meet the April 2014 target date for contract award.
The funded tender process for the construction and operating contract for the FPSO is near to completion with final offers from the three FPSO contractors evaluated by a dedicated commercial team and a preferred bidder identified.
A draft development work programme and budget has been issued to partners and the FDP submitted to DECC, initiating the process to target sanction in the second quarter of 2014.
Capital expenditure for the field is estimated at US$2.2 billion including 30 per cent allowances and contingencies.
Gross reserves under the initial development scheme are 92 mmboe.
The development scheme makes provision for the tie-back of additional discoveries in the future.
36 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW United Kingdom continued EXPLORATION Premier drilled two wells the Bonneville exploration well and the Lacewing exploration well in the UK Central North Sea in 2013.
Both wells were plugged and abandoned as hydrocarbon discoveries.
The Bonneville well 28 9a-6 and its sidetrack 28 9a-6z, which were drilled in April, discovered oil in excellent quality reservoirs with average porosities of approximately 30 per cent.
Initial sampling indicated that the oil quality is similar to that established at the nearby Burgman discovery which was 25 degrees API.
The estimated oil in place from the Bonneville discoveries is approximately 30 mmbbls, in line with pre-drill predictions.
The high pressure, high temperature Lacewing exploration well 23 22b-6Z, which spudded in June, encountered a gas column in excess of 100 feet in the Triassic reservoir.
Premier managed its capital exposure to this opportunity by farming down prior to drilling in return for a partial carry on the well.
Premier continued its portfolio upgrading through the relinquishment of a number of exploration licences in the UK North Sea during the first six months of the year.
This included selective acreage in the Moray Firth and exploration licences to the West of the Orkney Islands.
In August 2013, Premier successfully farmed-in for a 37.5 per cent interest in blocks 13 24c and 13 25, which contain the Bagpuss and Blofeld prospects.
The prospects, which Premier evaluates to be heavy oil targets, are located on the Halibut Horst which is a well-defined basement high within the Moray Firth.
A well was drilled in 1981 on the Bagpuss prospect.
Internal subsequent analysis of the well result suggests that the Bagpuss and Blofeld prospect together could contain around 1 billion barrels of oil in place.
It is envisaged that an initial well on one of these features will spud in 2015.
Outlook Catcher project sanction targeted for the second quarter of 2014 First oil from Solan scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2014 Current disposal programme of non-core assets Exploration reduced to a smaller number of key wells Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 37 BUSINESS UNIT REVIEW Vietnam Optimising Chim So production CHIM SO ACHIEVED THE MILESTONES OF US$2 BILLION OF OIL REVENUES AND 20 MMBBLS OF OIL PRODUCTION, JUST OVER TWO YEARS AFTER FIRST OIL.
To improve further the operational efficiency of Chim So a number of field upgrades are being undertaken.
Simultaneously the Dua project continues to progress with first oil expected later this year.
Highlights and achievements Chim So surpassed the milestone of US$2 billion of oil revenues and 20 million barrels of oil production in 2013 In Vietnam, we continue Oil sold at premium to Brent to focus on optimising Subsea equipment installed at Dua and tied back to FPSO production from the Chim So field.
We also look forward to our hard work on the Premier-operated Dua project coming to fruition with the development expected on-stream in 2014.
