Chief executives review In our operations, growth and performance enhancing projects, new mine development, host country partnerships and sustainability programmes, we made substantial progress, delivering on virtually all of our objectives for 2013 and setting the stage for further advances in 2014.
Looking back at 2013, it was also the year that our strategic reviews recognised a fundamental shift in the gold market, well in time for us to adjust our businesses to the emerging new realities.
The plans of all our operations were re-evaluated and where necessary aligned with lower gold price scenarios.
The original consolidated gold production target we had set ourselves for the year was 900 000oz to 950 000oz at a total cash cost of between US$700 oz and US$750 oz.
After the group and operational reviews, we reduced the upper limit of this forecast but retained the cost guidance.
In the event, the actual production came in at a record 910 374oz up 15% on the previous year and the total cash cost was US$715 oz, at the lower end of the guidance range and down 3% on the previous year.
Our strategy continues to deliver We have built this business over 17 years on a consistent long term strategy of creating real value through the discovery of multi-million ounce gold deposits and their development into profitable, worldclass mines.
We certainly did not get everything right all the time, and on occasion we had to face up to failures or deal with sometimes surprising social and political swings in our ever-dynamic African environment.
We could overcome these challenges, and continue to deliver value, because we always remained clear about our objectives and how best to achieve them.
We never strayed far from our strategic path and when we did hit a bump in the road, we got back on track quickly.
The graph overleaf illustrates that progress.
We delivered step changes in production over 2005 2006 on the back of the commissioning of Loulo, again in 2010 and 2011 when Gounkoto and Tongon came into production, and then again in 2012 and 2013 thanks to improving grades at Loulo-Gounkoto and Kibalis first contribution in the fourth quarter of 2013.
As the gold price continued its bull run, we adjusted the number at which we calculate our reserves to US$650 oz in 2008, US$700 oz in 2010 and US$1 000 oz in 2011.
As a consequence we posted increasing costs on the back of the rising gold price, but this started slowing down once we had fixed the price at US$1 000 oz, and 2013 saw the first real reduction in our costs after 11 years of increases.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 5 500 300 1 000 5 000 3 000 200 900 the sulphide circuit scheduled for completion by the end of the Randgolds focus on delivering value over the long term first quarter and three of the four hydropower stations still to Net cash position US$ million be commissioned.
Indexed Production 000oz 2002 100 Cash cost US$ oz 1 000 Loulo-Gounkoto beats production forecast Our flagship operation also produced a stellar performance, beating its revised production guidance by 20 000oz to reach 580 364oz and achieving a comforting US$34 oz reduction in total cash cost to US$704 oz.
The main drivers of 700 this performance were higher throughput, better grades and improved recoveries.
2 500 Loulos stand-alone results show a 30% increase in ore tonnes 400 mined for the year by its Yalea and Gara underground mines, largely as a result of the implementation of the cemented 1 500 aggregate fill CAF project at both operations.
As the CAF capacity builds up, the mines will be able to slow down their development rates as planned, and these should be reduced further when the paste backfill project is introduced in the first quarter of 2014.
The reduction in the development profile is 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in line with our drive to align capital investment with returns.
Gounkotos gold production was decreased as planned in Source: Barclays, Bloomberg order to increase production from Loulo, which has the larger orebodies, to the point where there is a 60 40 split in favour of Kibali delivering value again Loulo in the feed to the mill.
Gounkoto remains a very profitable In a year of many highlights, Kibali was undoubtedly the operation which paid another dividend to shareholders in the brightest star.
It would be hard to overstate the scale of the last quarter of 2013 and has now also started paying tax.
achievement of its early start-up, a feat which few outside the Randgold team and the DRC thought possible.
Yet in Looking ahead, our five year projection for the complex this remote part of the DRC, in an area virtually devoid of indicates that a continuing improvement in grade and further infrastructure and on a site occupied by 14 villages, Randgold reductions in costs will more than make up for Morilas is successfully executing the largest project in its history, and diminishing contribution and eventual closure.
all the objectives we set ourselves at the time of the Moto acquisition in September 2009 have been more than met.
Morila nears the end of the road As it has done so many times before, Morila produced a very Following the acquisition, our exploration team more than creditable set of results, delivering better than budgeted doubled the mineral reserve to 11Moz of gold, enabling us to production at a lower total cash cost.
plan a much bigger operation than envisaged in the original feasibility study.
We accelerated the construction programme This mine, the foundation on which Randgold was built, and brought first gold production forward from 2015 to has had a great innings but at current gold prices is going to December 2013 a deadline that was comfortably beaten.
become more and more challenging as it runs out of ore from The project area was secured in collaboration with the central the pushback and has to process tailings.
Our strategic plan and provincial governments, we built a road to the Ugandan foresaw that in such an event we would fast-track Morilas border, created a supply line to the Kenyan port of Mombasa closure, and we have therefore decided to bring this forward and successfully settled the villagers in a new model town we to 2017. built for them, in itself a considerable achievement.
Improved flotation to lift Tongon From its open pit mine and oxide circuit, Kibali produced The efficiency enhancement projects detailed in last years 88 200oz of gold in the three months to December, almost report have improved Tongons performance significantly doubling its forecast, at a total cash cost of US$464 oz, in line with plan.
Like all the other mines Randgold has built, Kibali and its increased throughput resulted in a fourth-quarter production improvement and an 11% increase in gold made a profit from mining activities in its first quarter of operation, posting US$68.3 million for the period.
Kibali is, of course, a work in progress, with shaft sinking and The mine is still struggling to get above the 80% recovery rate, decline development for the underground mine underway, however, and as a lower grade, high volume mine, this rate is 6 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 2 000 500 Randgold LSE share price Randgold production 000oz Euromoney global gold mine index Randgold cash costs US$ oz 4 500 800 4 000 100 3 500 600 The headgear at the vertical shaft at the Kibali mine is a first for Randgold.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 7 We could overcome these challenges, and continue to deliver value, because we always remained clear about our objectives and how best to achieve them.
Exhaustive testwork has now identified on finding either an effective power solution and or additional the problem: the current circuit is not recovering the gold resources, and we are working on both.
As it stands at the associated with arsenopyrite, which is bypassing the flash moment, however, Massawa does not meet our investment flotation cells.
The solution is to expand the flotation circuit to criteria and we have taken it out of our five-year plan.
address this problem by capturing the full sulphide spectrum.
The cost of this project is initially estimated at US$12 million Work also continues on the feasibility study for the development of the orebody underneath the Gounkoto pit.
We and it is scheduled for completion by the end of 2014. have been looking at two options: one is to enlarge the open pit and the other is to develop an underground operation.
The In the meantime, Tongon is forecasting gold production of super pit has a significantly lower risk than an underground approximately 260 000oz for 2014, which is an increase on mine, but will only be commercially viable at a higher gold price.
2013s production but slightly behind the previous internal In either event, we have decided that this project should be target.
scheduled for later in Gounkotos life, given the anticipated high grade profile expected from Gounkoto over the next More options five years.
With no need to rush, we do not intend to complete With all that we have on our plate, we have decided to give the feasibility study this year but will continue to update the ourselves more time on our two feasibility projects, Massawa prefeasibility and keep the market abreast of progress.
and Gounkoto underground, both of which will benefit from further investigation.
The next big one Exploration was the foundation of our past achievements and Massawa is one of the largest undeveloped gold deposits in remains the key to our future success.
West Africa but it is also geologically and metallurgically the most complex orebody in our portfolio.
Its viability depends The focus of our current programmes is on finding extensions to our known orebodies, hunting down new discoveries Forecast group consolidated production capable of meeting our basic requirements at least 3Moz Total cash costs US$ oz ounces and a minimum internal rate of return of 20% and Production 000oz Grade g t evaluating every junior company which is either in one of our 1 400 6 target regions or has recently published interesting results.
As reported earlier to shareholders, we have already entered into 1 200 5 a number of promising joint ventures with junior partners and several other such initiatives are under discussion.
1 000 4 Managing the downturn 800 Our recently concluded budget review was conducted against 3 the background of the downturn in the gold price, and all our 600 mining plans were closely scrutinised to ensure that they were both optimal and deliverable, and that our operations would 2 400 remain profitable at even lower gold prices.
1 In the current market, our focus needs to be on profitability 200 and not on maximising reserves.
The priority is to replenish profitable ounces because we are increasing production as 0 0 we access higher grade ores.
This is reflected in our updated 2013 Actual 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 reserve and resource declaration, published as part of this Morila 40% Loulo-Gounkoto 100% Tongon 100% Kibali 45% annual report.
Grade Total cash cost oz 8 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Tongon metallurgical plant.
We shall continue to look closely at all our projects against a I also want to thank the other members of the board for their range of gold price scenarios, but in the meantime we have put wise counsel during the year, and record a special word of in place a robust budget for 2014 and kept our rolling five-year appreciation for everyone else at Randgold.
One of our key objectives going forward is to build role in the company operator, supervisor or manager you this into a 10-year plan.
have shared a vision of greatness and contributed your effort to the team working to achieve that.
Sustainability at the core The priority we give to sustainability in every aspect and at every In conclusion, I thank all our stakeholders and partners for the level of the business is evident from the comprehensive review part they have played in Randgolds continuing success.
of our philosophy, practices and programmes elsewhere in this annual report.
Looking ahead Randgold continues to project a rising production profile over It is worth pointing out here, however, that in spite of the the next five years, with 2013s big step-up to be followed by an growing scale and complexity of our operations, we achieved even bigger one of between 24% and 30% this year, which is a 60% improvement in the groups Lost Time Injury Frequency forecast to take us over the one million ounce mark and bring Rate for the year.
Our involvement in the fight against malaria continued to deliver results, as did our AIDS education us within a touch of our long established objective of producing programmes.
It is also notable that all our operations, apart from the recently The growth in production in 2014 is expected to come from commissioned Kibali, have obtained their international safety increasing grades at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, improving and environmental certifications.
Not to be outdone, Kibali recoveries and throughput at Tongon, and Kibalis first full-year was awarded the DRCs trophy of excellence for corporate contribution.
We are targeting a total cash cost per ounce, after social responsibility for the second year in succession in royalties, of between US$650 oz and US$700 oz for the group.
Given Randgolds commitment to growing through discovery and development, we shall continue to invest substantially in The human factor exploration, with US$60 million earmarked for this purpose After a long and distinguished term in that office, Philippe in 2014.
Litard will be stepping down as Randgolds chairman at the end of the companys next annual general meeting in May.
I wish to pay a personal tribute to him for the guidance and support he has given me over many years.
His exceptional understanding of doing business in Africa, broad perspective and calm good sense helped to guide us safely through a host of challenges, while his passion for this business, his pursuit of excellence and his vision of a better future for Africa made him a role model for all at Randgold.
We shall miss his presence Mark Bristow on the board and his contribution to Randgolds progress and direction.
Chief executive Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 9
