Directors report Chairman and Chief Executives Review Delivering on our strategy The Groups performance is driven by its established approach of understanding our customer needs, developing well-known and much loved brands, taking responsibility for our actions and playing our part in building vibrant communities.
As always our employees are vital to how we achieve this.
I would like to take the opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank them all for their efforts.
It has been a busy 12 months for Rank culminating in the successful completion in May of the acquisition of 19 casinos and 3 non-trading licences from Gala Coral Group Limited Gala Coral and the disposal of the loss making Blue Square Bet business.
Despite a tough economic environment and the competitive market in which we operate the Group has delivered a solid set of results.
The Board has recommended a final ian Burke dividend of 2.85 pence per share making total dividends Chairman & chief executive for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 of 4.10 pence per share, 14 august 2013 an increase of 14% on the previous 12-month period.
Having moved to a brand-based structure at the beginning of the year, the Group has witnessed strong growth from digital media online and mobile and our fastest growing channel of distribution was mobile media, which increased revenue by 168% to 13.2m.
30% of our digital customers are now playing with our brands on mobile devices, up 23% from the prior period.
This remains a strong area of focus for our team going forward.
Our businesses have I am very proud of the positive contribution the Group makes to life in Britain in a number of areas.
Firstly we delivered a solid entertain people, we thrill them, and we make them laugh.
set of results and In our venues we bring communities together, connecting people and creating shared experiences.
we remain confident Secondly, we offer exciting careers for people across in the groups long-term a range of disciplines, employing more than 11,000 prospects and its individuals in full-time and part-time roles across Great Britain, Spain and Belgium.
increasing focus Thirdly, we generate significant economic benefit both on the growth areas at a national level and a local level through the payment of duties, business taxes, rents and rates: the provision of digital and of employment: and supporting other British businesses casino venues through investment in construction, purchasing through our supply chain and providing halo benefits to neighbouring retailers.
Lastly, our teams play a valuable role in their communities, though volunteering and charitable fund-raising.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 8 As we look forward the Group is committed to three software and affiliate costs resulted in total brand profit key priorities: declining 12% to 44.1m.
Successful integration of the former Gala venues we Enrachas euro revenue was flat year on year with a will work hard on ensuring the expected benefits from 3% increase in euro spend per visit offset by a 3% fall the acquired casinos are achieved.
To date we are in customer visits.
Due to an unfavourable exchange pleased with the early stages of the integration and rate, Sterling revenue declined by 2% to 28.5m.
Sterling we remain confident that we will achieve the planned operating profit grew marginally due to cost management synergy benefits: across the brand.
Growth in digital through improved cross-channel Central costs were 10% higher largely due to an increase working and capital investment we will continue in employment costs driven by investment in the our focus on growing our digital channels: and technology team.
Retail channel improvements broadening the appeal During the year Rank invested 38.2m of capital across the of our venues.
This is especially vital for our Mecca Group.
More than 55% of this was deployed in enhancing brand which is facing some tough challenges and venues and developing new ones.
In addition, we invested there are actions underway to address this.
6.9m in extending the reach of our brands through digital channels.
Summary of financial results The Groups adjusted net financing charge of 4.8m The Group achieved 7% growth in continuing business was higher than the prior period, primarily due to revenue: with 6% growth in venues and 16% in digital the financing costs associated with the acquisition online and mobile.
Like-for-like revenue for the Group of the former Gala Casinos.
The fastest growing channel of distribution was mobile where revenue increased by 168% to 13.2m, Adjusted earnings per share was in line with the prior with over 30% of our digital customers in Great Britain period at 12.4p.
playing our games on mobile devices 2011 12: 23%.
Acquisition of the former Gala Casinos Revenue from Grosvenor Casinos increased by 15% to On 12 May 2013, Rank completed its acquisition of 300.3m driven by a higher than normal win margin in 19 casinos and 3 non-trading licences from Gala Coral.
the London venues, the contribution from the acquired The trading performance of the acquired casinos has been casinos and the impact of Machine Games Duty MGD.
shown within Grosvenor Casinos results for the year and Consequently operating profit rose by 19% to 47.4m.
is in line with managements expectations.
Meccas revenue increased by 1% to 296.2m as a 10% Please refer to pages 19 and 24 for the capital expenditure growth in digital revenues was offset by a weaker venues plans and trading performance for the acquired estate.
performance, despite the impact of MGD.
The digital Details of the acquisition accounting can be found in channel saw growth in customer numbers and visits note 25. whereas the venues channel saw a decline.
The disappointing venues performance and higher digital Group performance Revenue Operating profit m 2012 13 2011 12 2012 13 2011 12 Grosvenor Casinos 300.3 261.5 47.4 39.9 Mecca 296.2 293.6 44.1 49.9 Enracha 28.5 29.2 0.7 0.1 Central costs 22.3 20.2 Total continuing 625.0 584.3 69.9 69.7 Before adjustments for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 DiReCTORs RePORT CHaiRman anD CHieF exeCUTives Review COnTinUeD On 15 April 2013, the Group published Game Plan A Blue Square Bet candid exposition of Ranks approach to regulatory and On 2 April 2013, Rank sold the assets and trademarks fiscal reform Game Plan.
The purpose of Game Plan is of its loss making Blue Square Bet business for 5.0m.
to identify a different approach to gaming policy and the Blue Square Bet has been disclosed as a discontinued relationship between industry and government.
As such, business within these results.
the report contains three specific recommendations: Fiscal and regulatory update bringing bingo taxation in line with other forms of gaming and betting by setting the rate at 15%: On 1 February 2013, MGD was introduced, replacing the permitting local authorities to choose whether or not to previous system of VAT and Amusement Machine Licence license casinos by allowing casino operators to transfer Duty AMLD, a fixed fee charged on each gaming an existing casino licence into their jurisdiction: and machine offered to consumers on amusement machine income.
The impact on the Groups revenue has been an allowing licensed casinos greater ability to meet increase of 8.6m in the period.
From 1 December 2014, customer demand for gaming machines.
Remote Gaming Duty at 15% is expected to apply to online In the report, which has been sent to more than 150 gambling revenue generated by customers in the UK.
Members of Parliament as well as other interested parties, On 15 January 2013, the Government published its we state that Rank and its peers have the potential to response to the Culture, Media and Sports Select contribute a great deal more to life in Britain through job Committee report The Gambling Act 2005: A bet worth creation and economic development, revenue generation taking?.
On the proposal to align 1968 Act casinos with for Government, our work in communities and our the 2005 Act casinos, the Government has stated it wishes capacity to bring people together for shared experiences to gather more data and understand further the effect the but that greater support from the Government is required.
2005 Act licences have on communities before a decision A copy of the publication can be found at http: www.
The Government has also made reference to rank.
com downloads gameplan vol1 april 2013. pdf the proposal for casino licence portability.
It states it will support engagement between the casino industry and VAT claims local government: however, any agreed approach must On 5 October 2012, Rank received confirmation that the not adversely impact competition within the sector and Groups amusement machine claim was to be remitted the awarding of 2005 Act licences.
back to the First-tier Tribunal to consider the question The Select Committees proposal on reducing the rate of of similarity between certain types of amusement bingo tax from 20% to 15% has not been accepted by the machines.
This remission has not altered Ranks appraisal Government.
However, they have stated that they will of its chances of success in this matter.
This claim relates continue to engage actively with the bingo industry as to the 30.8m VAT of 26.4m plus interest of 4.4m part of the Budget process.
overpayment on amusement machines already received by the Group.
Another point of dispute in relation to The triennial review of stakes and prizes by the the claim was heard at the Court of Appeal in May 2013 Government was also released on 15 January 2013 and and Rank is expecting to receive the Court of Appeals is subject to consultation.
The Government outlined judgment by the end of October 2013.
The First-tier its preferred options and those specifically relevant Tribunal date has been held over until this judgment to the Group are: has been received.
A successful result in the current amusement machines litigation will strengthen the legal increase in B1 stake from 2 to 5 with a maximum arguments for Ranks additional claims for earlier and later prize of up to 15,000: and periods which have similar facts and legal principles.
maximum Category C stake of 1 with an increase in maximum prize from 70 to 100.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 10 Guoco Group Limited Board changes Since July 2011, Guoco Group Limited Guoco Group During the year Shaa Wasmund was appointed as a new has held 74.5% of the shares in the Group.
Shaas appointment took effect a member of the Hong Leong Group, is listed on the Hong on 1 November 2012.
Shaa has a distinguished career Kong stock exchange and is an investment holding and advising both start-ups and large corporations and investment management company.
Guoco Group has four is an international speaker on digital media.
core businesses, namely, Principal Investment: Property On 31 December 2012, Bill Shannon stood down from Development and Investment: Hospitality and Leisure: the Board having served more than two three-year terms.
Guoco Groups subsidiaries and investments are principally located in Hong Kong, On 30 June 2013, Richard Greenhalgh stood down from China, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam and the UK.
Guoco the Board after serving nine years as a non-executive Groups stated objective is to create long-term sustainable director: Colin Child took over Richards role as senior shareholder returns and it has a long and successful history independent director on 1 July 2013. of working with other shareholders towards a common At the upcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 October goal.
Guoco Group has consistently expressed its support 2013, John Warren will be stepping down from the Board for Ranks strategy since becoming a shareholder in 2007. after serving more than seven and half years.
Colin Child Listing Rules will take over Johns role as chair of the audit committee following his departure.
As previously announced, under Listing Rule 6.1.
19R, shares held by persons who have an interest in 5% or Dividends more of a listed companys share capital are not regarded The Board is pleased to recommend that a final dividend as being held in public hands the free float.
Under this of 2.85 pence per share be paid on 23 October 2013 to rule, the shares held by Hong Leong Company Malaysia, shareholders on the register at 13 September 2013.
Berhad Hong Leong and Prudential plc and subsidiary companies Prudential may not be regarded as being Current trading and outlook in public hands, with the result that the number of Ranks Since the beginning of July, Group trading has been shares distributed to the public is below the 25% threshold adversely impacted by the recent unusually hot weather.
This has contributed to a fall in like-for-like Group revenue: On 3 July 2013, Guoco Group declared a special interim however including the acquired casinos total Group dividend in specie of approximately 88.84 million Rank revenue was up on the same period last year.
Rank understands Despite this slow start we remain confident in the Groups that the distribution in specie is expected to reduce the prospects for the remainder of the year and its longer-term overall interest of Hong Leong in Rank from approximately growth strategy.
However, due to the fact that Prudentials shares are not regarded as being in public hands, the free float remains below the 25% threshold.
The Group remains in discussions with the UKLA and Prudential regarding this.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11
