Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Creating a New Global Force in Consumer Health At the end of the second year of our new strategy, it is appropriate to reflect on the progress we have made.
The achievements have been many.
Building on the successful traditions of the Company, we are creating something unique and powerful.
We are creating a new force in consumer health across the globe.
RB is building capabilities to provide innovative solutions for healthier lives.
Global health trends are changing to take on responsibility for their profoundly.
People are living longer every-day ailments as they strive to Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive and are increasingly aware of the reduce the economic burden of rising need to look after themselves as they health care costs and to focus limited seek to prolong and enjoy their lives.
resources on more complex diseases.
Families are better educated about Our vision and our purpose are to health issues and are increasingly keen support consumers as they make their to take control of their own wellbeing.
choices for their own households and The emergent middle class has become their own families: to put them in far more health conscious as the links control and give them the power to between health and prosperity become do what is right for them.
Governments also want citizens Our vision is a world where people are healthier and live better Our purpose is to make a difference by giving people innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes Our Strategy POweRBRANDS ORGANISATION Focus on health, hygiene and home Informed by consumer clusters, LAPAC, RUMEA and ENA POweRMARKeTS Powermarkets prioritised on MARGINS growth potential and where we Drive margins to fund investment and have capabilities to win profit growth, and convert to cash HEALTH HYGIENE HOME RB Annual Report 2013 3 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Trusted Powerbrands for Self Health Care Consumers are at the Centre of Our business model continues to OuR 19 POweRBRANDS our Vision develop to support this strategy.
We RB owns brands that consumers love remain focused on Powermarkets and Good health is the key to happiness.
They know our products Powerbrands where we believe the can make a difference and help opportunities are greatest.
Our new them live healthier lives, but our geographic structure has paid dividends strategy is different from traditional as we have significantly expanded our pharmaceutical consumer health presence in emerging markets.
Our deep expertise as a renewed focus on health and hygiene consumer-centric company means we has seen us boost our presence in key Hygiene is the foundation of can continuously provide highly relevant consumer health segments that we healthy living.
products and benefits based on what believe will deliver benefits to all our consumers want, informed with robust stakeholders in the future.
We have done this through focused We continue to invest in this strategy.
investment in our people and financial We have increased our spending on key resources, and through a series partnerships across the world so we can of strategic acquisitions that have understand better where the emerging demonstrated our intent to develop opportunities and needs lie: in whatever further in areas where we see the Home is the centre of family life.
demographic or geography they exist.
Food is run as a stand-alone business.
Building Trust with Health Care Professionals As the global leader in consumer health and hygiene, RBs reputation for being the health care brand for health care professionals HCPs is growing.
Amongst many online schemes, were piloting an online consumer health care portal RBforHealth in the UK and Italy, giving HCPs access to interactive training modules, and a collection of essential resources.
4 RB Annual Report 2013 Helping UK pharmacists help their patients Heart health is key to the enjoyment of life Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Acquisitions Reinforce our Position STRATeGIC ACquISITIONS Strengthening our Health Platform As more and more people become AND PARTNeRSHIPS In May 2013 we significantly aware of the potential benefits of strengthened our health platform in supplements as part of a holistic Latin America, where historically we approach to health and wellbeing, Bristol-Myers Squibb have had less on-the-ground ability this category goes from strength to Boosting our strength in Latin America to execute than in other regions.
As an example, many people in over-the-counter brands.
Our collaboration with Bristol-Myers want to eat a balanced diet with the Squibb brought into our portfolio a right nutrients but are unable to do so.
number of important over-the-counter Supplementing diet is one way VMS brands that have leading positions fulfils an important role.
in key segments such as cold and flu In each of these cases we have used and pain relief in the rapidly growing our operational expertise to integrate markets of Brazil and Mexico.
In China, the acquisitions rapidly, and we are Guilong Medicine we acquired the leading traditional sore confident that each will deliver lasting throat brand Manyanshuning, which Strategic acquisition of the traditional value for Shareholders.
Collectively Chinese medicine brand Manyanshuning has already shown strong growth in the these transactions will contribute to the No.
1 sore throat remedy in China.
first year of our ownership.
Beyond this, our strategy of creating a unique global it is helping to build a consumer health health and hygiene focused company platform in one of the worlds largest with broad category coverage across a consumer markets.
host of fast growing segments, including Vitamins, Minerals and analgesics, cold and flu, gastrointestinal Supplements VMS maladies and VMS.
They have also We have also broadened our category expanded our geographic capabilities, portfolio with the purchase of Schiff ensuring we are better positioned than at the end of 2012.
This provided us ever to meet our targets.
with a meaningful position in the fastgrowing area of vitamins, minerals and supplements.
The category is worth 29bn globally and is growing at an annual rate of 4-5%.
Diving into the Vast Vitamins, Minerals and Supplements Category Acquiring Schiff has given RB a leading gives our consumers the same position in the large and rapidly growing benefits for their heart and vitamins, minerals and supplements category: health, but with a much more effectively doubling the value of the global palatable fish-free taste.
health markets we are now in to 60bn.
MegaRed launches into over A key brand in this category is MegaRed 20 new European and Asian made from krill oil instead of fish oil, this markets in 2014.
RB Annual Report 2013 5 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Expanding Powermarkets Focus on the Right Categories and brand penetration programme.
Our KPI AReAS the Right Geographies is to make these emerging market areas These acquisitions add to our 50% of our core net revenue by 2015. considerable progress on the first We also made the unconventional pillar of our strategy, to focus on the but breakthrough step of combining faster growing, higher margin and Europe and North America as one better consumer loyalty of health and organisation.
This has enabled ENA to hygiene brands.
Our KPI, which we become a leaner, faster organisation had already accelerated to 2015, to with the ability to enhance the scale of achieve 72% of our core net revenue LAPAC our innovations across both sides of the from these two categories has been North Asia South East Asia Atlantic and deliver very good growth.
Australia & New Zealand Latin America achieved two years early.
Our final pillar of margin RuMeA The second pillar of our strategy is a improvement remains key and is Russia & CIS Middle East, North Africa particular focus on 16 Powermarkets a focus for every business, in every & Turkey sub-Saharan Africa where the opportunity to grow and market, every day.
It is what generates outperform is greatest, such as in Brazil, eNA the fuel to invest in our brands and Russia, India and China.
This is why we North America Central Europe ultimately to generate excellent returns Northern Europe Southern Europe created two emerging market areas, for our Shareholders.
Western Europe our third pillar, LAPAC and RUMEA, to enhance our focus, capabilities and Boosting Strepsils Sales in South Korea An innovative collaboration saw Strepsils sponsoring the popular national talent TV show The Voice of Korea.
The Strepsils brand was embedded into all aspects of the show: contestants even used Strepsils during the shows to keep their throats feeling great.
This helped Strepsils distribution into 16 cities, 14,000 pharmacies and 30,000 points of sale.
6 RB Annual Report 2013 Gil, Baek Jiyoung, Shin Seunghoon & Kang Ta Judges on The Voice of Korea Nick & Dani, Australia, Fundawear testers on viral YouTube video Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Innovating to Outperform Strategic Review of RB to our responsibility and sustainability CATeGORY KPI Pharmaceuticals initiatives as we do to our business 1 As part of our constant commitment and brands.
Core Company % to drive shareholder value, during net revenues from environmental Performance health and hygiene the year we announced a strategic 72 We take our environmental to increase by review of RB Pharmaceuticals.
We have performance equally seriously and achieved 1% per annum consistently said that, once generic are targeting a one-third reduction competition to RB Pharmaceuticals in carbon emissions across the entire Suboxone had been on the market in lifecycle of our products by 2020.
In the GeOGRAPHIC KPI the US for a number of months, we past five years we have already reduced 1 would examine all the options for what Core Company carbon emissions per dose of product % is a very valuable asset.
That review net revenues from by 25%, leading to our recognition LAPAC and RuMeA is ongoing and we will update our 43 as a leader in this area by the Carbon to be equal to eNA Shareholders during 2014.
achieved by end of 2015 Our Responsibility We have adopted a similar approach Our purpose to provide innovative 1 Core includes health, hygiene, home and to our use of water, which is becoming portfolio brands solutions for healthier lives and happier an increasingly scarce resource in many homes inspires our business strategy parts of the world, yet is critical to our but it is a determination that is also at business and to consumers.
the heart of our social purpose.
We take the same innovative approach Fun with Durexperiments Durex is about great and safe sex.
As the gaining a million views in just two weeks global No.
1 sexual wellbeing brand it is and becoming Australias No.
reaching new consumers in very innovative Facebook Likes increased 4,000%: ways.
A series of Durexperiments there was a 35:1 return on advertising included creating Fundawear vibrating revenue and a Silver Lion advertising award underwear, activated by your partner via a at Cannes.
This innovative idea was launched in Australia.
The YouTube video went viral, RB Annual Report 2013 7 E D V L E I R H Y C Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Healthier Business, Healthier World We have set a one-third target for water tackle the causes of diarrhoea, which reduction and are designing innovative kills 800,000 children under five every Help stop deaths new products that reduce both the year thats more than a child a minute.
from diarrhoea In partnership with volumes of water required for their Working with governmental, NGO manufacture, as well as in their use.
For and business partners, we aim to instance our new Dettol Touch of Foam remove it as the No.
2 cause of death requires far less water than conventional in young children.
hand wash products as it does not Our People require water to create a lather.
In The success of these initiatives, and addition, we have a target to achieve of the business as a whole, lies with one-third of our net revenue from more our employees.
They have unmatched passion and Healthier Lives commitment, and live for results.
Once We have launched a groundbreaking again I would like to thank them for all initiative with Save the Children to their efforts.
There is little doubt that 2014 will be another challenging year.
Our actions in 2013 mean that we believe we can still look forward to another period of outperformance.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Taking a Stand Against Preventable Disease Save a Child Every Minute!
It will shock many people to learn that This illness is preventable diarrhoea is the second biggest killer through better hygiene worldwide of children under five, claiming and health and our around 800,000 lives per year.
Thats 90 goal together is to young lives every hour.
RB is on a mission radically reduce the with Save the Children to change this!
global death rate Photo credits Above: Save the Children by 2020.
Below: Lucia Zoro Save the Children 8 RB Annual Report 2013 M Making a difference in Ethiopia, Bangladesh and many more countries A I E N V U A T S E
