OVERVIEW 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Chief Executive Officers report Strategic direction Our strategy remains consistent: to become a global professional information solutions provider, a company that delivers improved outcomes for professional customers across industries.
Our goal is to help our customers make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our customers to create innovative solutions which combine content and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
These solutions often accountfor about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant and positive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
We continue to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets by leveraging our skills, assets and resources across Reed Elsevier, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
During the year we continued to make progress in this strategic Erik Engstrom direction.
We are systematically migrating all of our businesses Chief Executive Officer across Reed Elsevier, primarily through organic investment.
We are supplementing this organic transformation with selective In 2013 we continued to make acquisitions of targeted data and content sets, and assets in highgrowth markets and geographies, where we are the natural owner good progress on our strategy to and can accelerate our strategy with good returns.
We continue to divest assets that we are unable to migrate or where we do not see systematically transform our significant future value creation for Reed Elsevier.
By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we business into a professional believe that, over time, we are improving the business profile of Reed Elsevier and the quality of our earnings.
This is leading to information solutions provider more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and geographic balance: a higher growth profile by expanding in that combines content and data higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged businesses and gradually reducing the drag from print format with analytics and technology to declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic development with strong cash generation.
deliver improved outcomes for customers.
We are enhancing the quality of our earnings to deliver more predictable revenues, a higher growth profile and improving returns.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT GROWTH Excluding biennial exhibition cycling 6% 5% 5% 3% 3% 3% 1% 2010 2011 2012 2013 1% 2010 2011 2012 2013 29275 SAS p001-006.
indd 4 07 03 2014 10:27 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 5 2013 progress Financial performance In 2013 we remained focused on improving the business profile of Underlying revenue growth was 2%, or 3% excluding the effects of our assets and the quality of our earnings.
We did this primarily biennial exhibition cycling.
Underlying operating profit grew 5%, through organic investment.
and adjusted earnings per share grew 7% at constant exchange rates.
Despite continued organic investment in our business and We maintained our positive operating and financial momentum the completion of a number of small acquisitions, our return on throughout the year.
All five major business areas again delivered invested capital increased to 12.1%.
At the end of 2013 our net underlying revenue and profit growth.
We improved profitability debt EBITDA ratio was 2.1 times on a pensions and lease adjusted through process innovation and portfolio development.
basis, or 1.6 times on an unadjusted basis, both slightly lower than By the end of 2013, 81% of our revenues were in our targeted the prior year, and we remain in a leverage range with which we formats of electronic and face-to-face, generating average are very comfortable.
underlying revenue growth rates of 5% to 7%.
Scientific, Technical & Medical achieved good volume growth in During the year, we continued the reshaping of our portfolio, primary research submissions and usage, and in databases & making asmall number of data, content and exhibition tools, across scientific, technical & medical markets.
Journal acquisitions in high-growth markets and geographies.
We also quality, as measured by Impact Factor, continued to improve.
continued our disposal activity, exiting businesses that are not Electronic revenues, which now account for 72% of total revenues, likely to transform into the type of business that we want to be in, grew strongly across all segments.
or where we do not see significant future value creation for Reed All business segments in Risk Solutions achieved strong growth Elsevier.
We also exited businesses where we have made a in 2013.
Growth in the insurance segment was driven by good take decision not to invest further to pursue a global leadership up of new products and services, expansion into adjacent market position.
For example, we completed the disposal of our verticals, and volume growth in the core underwriting business.
employment screening business from within Risk Solutions and Business Services growth reflected strong demand for identity exitedadditional print magazines within Business Information.
verification and fraud detection solutions.
Growth in government With a strong balance sheet, strong cash flow characteristics and revenues reflected new product sales.
with average acquisition spend comfortably covered by free In Business Information underlying revenue growth accelerated cashflow after dividends we continued to take a pragmatic in 2013 reflecting continued good growth in data services and approach to ensuring that the value compounding within the modest growth elsewhere.
business translates into shareholder value.
As part of this we increased our share buyback programme to 600m in 2013.
In Legal underlying revenue growth was maintained in 2013 despite subdued market conditions in the US and Europe.
Electronic revenues continued to show good growth, largely offset by print declines.
The roll out of new product releases continued, with over 70% of US legal customers activated on the New Lexis platform at period end, and new product usage progressing well.
Exhibitions maintained strong underlying revenue growth of 7% excluding the effect of biennial show cycling.
While growth in Europe was modest, the US, Japan, Brazil and other markets all grew strongly.
indd 5 07 03 2014 10:27 OVERVIEW 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Corporate responsibility Outlook We prioritise corporate responsibility in order to maximise the Early trends across our business in 2014 remain broadly beneficial impact we have on society.
In 2013, for example, consistent with full year 2013, with some small variations by LexisNexis Legal & Professional drafted Global Rule of Law market and by geography.
We are confident that, by continuing to Business Principles, outlining the responsibilities companies execute on our strategy, we will deliver another year of underlying have to promote justice.
These were launched at an event with UN revenue, profit andearnings growth in 2014.
We also made progress in the year In 2014 we again intend to deploy a total of 600m on share on our corporate responsibility objectives, including responding buybacks, reflecting our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
toglobal Employee Opinion Survey results across our business segments and launching a newproduct accessibility policy.
Erik Engstrom Chief Executive Officer REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY TYPE REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 6,035m 6,035m 6,035m 4% 19% 51% Electronic Subscriptions 21% North America Face to face Europe Transactional Print Other Rest of World Advertising 15% 44% 66% 52% 28% 29275 SAS p001-006.
