4 Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Introduction 2013 has been an eventful year for the Company.
We announced the sale of our loss-making parcels business, City Link, in April andconducted a Chief Executive succession process leading to theappointment of Andy Ransom as Chief Executive in October.
Since his appointment we have conducted a thorough review of group strategy, details of which can be found on pages 10 to 15 of this report.
We are also pleased to have announced on 28February 2014 the divestment of Initial Facilities to Interserve Plc for a consideration of 250m which, subject to approval by Interserves shareholders, will be effective from the end of March 2014.
The divestments of City Link and Initial Facilities allow us to focus on our core growth categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear.
John McAdam Andy Ransom In addition, following a triennial valuation this year of the Companys Chairman Chief Executive Pension Scheme, we have agreed with the pension trustees a significant reduction in annual contributions to be made from 2013 has been a year of good March 2014 and in October took advantage of favourable market conditions to issue a 3.25% coupon 350m bond which will be progress.
We have delivered a used to refinance the groups 500m bond maturing in March 2014. steady financial performance Following the maturity of the March 2014 bond the average cost of gross debt for the group will be less than 4%.
despite ongoing economic While we have achieved much in 2013 we are less satisfied with challenges in Europe, rounding other areas of our performance.
Despite a quarter-on-quarter improvement in organic growth from our core businesses, this out the year with a solid fourth is not as strong as we would have liked and reflects primarily a quarter in line with expectations.
continuation of challenging economic conditions in Europe and the Benelux in particular.
While we are nearing the end of a major period John McAdam, of restructuring across the group we have incurred some 64m of Chairman costs this year associated with redundancy costs, consultancy and plant and office closures.
In addition, capital expenditure of 232m remains above depreciation although this will be lowered from 2014.
Based on our overall performance in 2013 the Board is Summary of key points recommending a final dividend of 1.61p per share, to make a total of 2.31p a 10% increase year on year.
2 013 revenue, profit and cash performance in line with expectations Overview of performance Revenue in the West region rose 17.9% 0.9% organic driven largely F urther expansion of global pest control by North America through the acquisition of Western Exterminator.
presence in 2013 and into 2014 through 19m Revenue in the UK and Ireland was adversely impacted by tough acquisition of 19 bolt-on acquisitions with economic conditions: however cost savings have enabled profit combined revenues of 19m growth.
Europe posted a marginal decline in 2013 revenues reflecting ongoing economic challenges in southern regions.
Recommended final dividend of 1.61p: Lowsingle-digit revenue and profit growth from the Rest of World full year dividend of 2.31p 10% increase 10% operations reflected solid performances by East Africa, the Nordics year on year and the Caribbean while prior-year acquisitions in Central and South America, the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey have traded in line with expectations.
The integrated operating model has been implemented across the region and is underpinning net operating margins.
Profit for the region increased by 14.8% on the prior year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 4 01 04 2014 16:18 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 5 Revenue in the East region declined by 2.1% 0.4% organic year Interest and one-off items financing on year.
Trading conditions in continental Europe have continued to Net interest payable was 60.0m at actual exchange rates be difficult, with the Benelux impacted by significant pricing pressure compared to 48.6m in the prior year, an increase of 11.4m.
and France and Germany experiencing some softening in demand.
The increase is predominantly due to the carry cost resulting from France delivered a steady performance in its core workwear and raising funds ahead of the maturity of our 500m bond in March hygiene operations, supported by moving to an integrated operating 2014.
Following the maturity of the March 2014 bond the average model, while Germany was held back by the impact of falling gold cost of gross debt for the group will be less than 4%.
In 2013 prices on dental revenues in its medical hygiene business.
Overall a 1.5m credit was recognised as a one-off item financing in performance was also impacted by weak pest control job revenues respect of the unwinding of historic gains and losses from equity in Australia due to adverse weather conditions in H1.
Significant on disposal of an available-for-sale asset.
investment in restructuring programmes in France, the Benelux and Germany is now largely complete.
Profit in the East region Tax declined by 2.1%.
The income tax expense for the year was 31.4m on the reported profit before tax of 122.6m.
After adjusting profit for Asia continues to build on its solid platform for growth, delivering the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets excluding a revenue increase of 7.0% 7.2% organic year on year.
Both the computer software, reorganisation costs and one-off items and pest control and hygiene categories performed well, benefiting net pension credit from pensions, the effective tax rate for the year from ongoing market development.
Our operations in the emerging is 25.2% 2012: 25.4% as restated.
This compares with a blended markets of India, China and Vietnam delivered combined revenue rate of tax for the countries in which the group operates of 27% growth of 37.3%, albeit from a low base.
Growth in the mature 2012: 28% as restated.
The reduction is principally due to the market of Malaysia was in mid-single digits building on 2012s recognition of a deferred tax asset in relation to certain UK tax strong performance.
Profit growth of 32.8% across the region losses carried forward as at 31 December 2013. reflects leverage from revenue growth combined with ongoing productivity improvements.
Net debt and cash flow Operating cash inflow from continuing operations of 141.2m Profit in Initial Facilities fell 13.1% on revenue decline of 4.6% at actual exchange rates for continuing operations was 53.7m 6.3% organic, reflecting contract terminations and the timing of adverse to 2012 mainly due to increased restructuring costs, new contract awards during the summer.
30m of new business working capital outflows and capex in2013.
was secured, however, at the end of Q3.
The Company announced on 29 April 2013 the sale of its parcels Interest payments including finance lease interest were 7.0m division, City Link, to Better Capital.
A one-off loss on disposal was higher than last year at 51.2m.
Total tax payments were 37.2m incurred of 41.0m of which 30.5m related to a non-cash write compared with 35.6m in 2012 and the Company made pension down of assets.
These are reported within discontinued operations.
funding payments of 13.6m at the beginning of the year.
Free cash inflow of 17.4m was 18.0m adverse compared to the prior year.
Central and divisional overheads The acquisition disposal outflow of 10.0m compares with 82.8m Central and divisional overheads decreased by 2.0m in Q4 and last year.
The Company paid a dividend of 38.6m in 2013, 2.4m 0.8m in the year reflecting the implementation of a programme higher than 2012.
Foreign exchange translation and other items designed to reduce annual central and divisional overheads by reduced cash flow by a further 14.1m, leaving an overall outflow 10m, announced with the Q3 IMS, as well as lower provisions of 45.3m and net debt of 1,034.8m.
Capital expenditure Reorganisation costs and one-off items operating Net capital expenditure of 232.1m was 28.7m higher than 2012 Net reorganisation costs and one-off items operating in the year due to increased restructuring capex in continental Europe.
51.7m 2012: 31.2m of these related directly to the groups major reorganisation programme and consisted mainly of redundancy costs, consultancy and plant and office closure costs net of the profit on sale of certain properties.
One-off items operating of 12.0m 2012: 16.8m include costs relating to acquisitions and disposals and movements in vacant property provisions.
Details of reorganisation costs and one-off items operating incurred in the period, for which adjustments have been made, are set out in Note A1.
indd 5 01 04 2014 16:18 6 Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive continued As noted above we announced the disposal of City Link to Better Pensions Capital, a private equity investor, on 29 April 2013.
At 31 December 2013 the Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new members, was valued at an On 28 February the Company announced it had agreed the sale accounting surplus of 70.6m on the groups balance sheet.
The of its Initial Facilities business to Interserve Plc for a total cash trustees value the scheme on a different basis and are currently consideration of 250m.
Completion, which is subject to the in the process of finalising the 31 March 2013 valuation with the agreement of Interserves shareholders on 17 March, is expected Company.
On this valuation basis the plan is 99% funded with an by the end of March 2014. estimated deficit of 18m.
This deficit is expected to be met by the investment return on pension assets over the period of the recovery Funding plan.
In order to mitigate the risk that it does not, however, annual At 31 December 2013 the group had net debt of 1,034.8m contributions of c. 3m per annum over the next six years, with the and a strong liquidity position, comprising over 400m of funds first payment made by March 2014, will be paid into a joint escrow and 270m of available undrawn committed facilities.
In the event that the deficit is not cleared by The group has 402.7m of bond maturities in the next 12 months the time of the 31 March 2019 valuation, it will be funded from the which have been funded at least one year in advance, in accordance escrow account.
The funds will be credited back to the Company with the groups policy and with Standard & Poors liquidity at such time as the fund goes into surplus.
requirements for investment grade companies.
Acquisitions and disposals The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The Company is pursuing a strategy of growth through carefully the accounts on the basis that the groups strong liquidity position targeted acquisitions and purchased a number of bolt-ons in the and ability to reduce operating capital expenditure or expenditure pest control, workwear, hygiene and plants categories during 2013. on bolt-on acquisitions are sufficient to meet the groups forecast In pest control we acquired 12 businesses in the UK, Norway, funding needs, including those modelled in a downside case.
Portugal, French Guyana, Brazil, North America and Canada and entered into a joint venture with an eminent local partner in Saudi Dividend Arabia.
Combined annual revenues of the above prior to acquisition Despite continuing challenging market conditions the Company has totalled approximately 9.2m.
made solid progress in 2013 and we anticipate further operational and financial progress in 2014.
Taking this into consideration the In workwear we swapped our Belgian Hospital linen business which Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2013 of generated revenue of 27.5m in 2012 for a cash payment and the 1.61p per share, payable to shareholders on the register at the garments contract portfolio of Blanca Linnenservice NV, thereby close of business on 11 April 2014 to be paid on 21 May 2014. building our customer base in this important segment.
This business This equates to a full year dividend of 2.31p per share, an increase generated revenues of 4.9m last year.
In hygiene we acquired of 10.0% compared to 2012, on an approximately one third two a medical waste business in France and a washrooms vending thirds interim final basis.
machine business in the UK to support our current offering in these areas.
Combined annual revenue from these two transactions Board changes amounts to 2.0m.
In plants we acquired two small businesses On 1 August 2013 we announced that Alan Brown had decided in the US generating annual revenues of approximately 0.8m.
to stand down as Chief Executive and as a director and that after a This year to date we have accelerated our M&A ambitions to pursue thorough succession planning process including an external search, targets in high growth markets and in areas which add local density Andy Ransom, Regional Managing Director and Executive Director, to our existing operations.
We have acquired a further seven pest would succeed Alan as CEO, effective from 1 October 2013. control companies in Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland, We would like to take this opportunity to thank Alan Brown Spain, Italy and North America with combined annual revenues for his major contribution to the Company since 2008.
faced huge challenges over the past five years and Alan has navigated us through many of them.
The group is today in a much stronger position to continue its international growth strategy.
indd 6 01 04 2014 16:18 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 7 William Rucker stood down as a director in March 2013 and we Outlook for 2014 are greatly appreciative of his contribution since joining the Board We have delivered a steady financial performance in 2013, despite in 2008.
After nine years on the Board Duncan Tatton-Brown has ongoing economic challenges in Europe, rounding out the year with decided to stand down as a non-executive director at the conclusion a solid fourth quarter in line with expectations.
The Board thanks Duncan for his The divestment of Initial Facilities to Interserve Plc, announced leadership of the Audit committee for much of his tenure and wishes on 28 February 2014, together with the sale of City Link in April, him all the very best for the future.
allow us to focus on our core service categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear using our differential matrix to target higher Service delivery growth markets.
Outstanding service delivery is at the heart of our plan for delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Our actions and initiatives to deliver Though we see no immediate improvement in trading conditions outstanding service include: developing and delivering our Customer in Europe particularly the Benelux in 2014 we expect to offset Promise: introducing innovative products and services: and ensuring ongoing margin pressure with cost efficiencies and anticipate a we demonstrate responsible product stewardship.
The Companys material improvement in free cash flow as restructuring expenses core State of Service measure remained high in 2013 at 98% while and capex are reduced.
In addition our new strategy, with its customer satisfaction, as measured through the Customer Voice differentiated plan to drive shareholder value, gives us confidence in Counts survey, rose by 2.6 percentage points.
making further operational and financial progress in the coming year.
Strategic review After five years of necessary reinvestment and operational progress the Company has created a new strategic plan to build on the investment phase and drive shareholder value over the medium term.
The Rentokil Initial Model is designed to drive higher revenue, John McAdam Andy Ransom generate sustainable profit growth and increased free cash flow.
Chairman Chief Executive It focuses on a clear organisational structure built around strong regional businesses, three core categories of pest control, hygiene 28 February 2014 and workwear and differentiated strategies for growth.
Further details of our group strategy can be found on pages 10 to 15.
Managing the business for profitable growth We have implemented a new model defined by the drive For details of our Strategic Plan go to page 10 towards profitable growth.
Our business organisation now comprises strong regional 1.
Strong regional businesses businesses grouped into five distinct regions: Europe, North America, Pacific, Asia and UK & Rest of World.
Our core competencies are our colleagues as experts, our 2.
Three core categories category leadership, and our lean multi-business operations.
We will manage the business for profitable growth by grouping 3.
Managing the portfolio our categories and geographies into a growth potential and profit for growth contribution matrix.
We will utilise six operational levers to address growth challenges: 4.
Operational levers for growth Where to play, Mastering our Markets, Building the Pipeline, Sales Brilliance, Delivering our Promise and Engaging our Customers.
