06 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Chief Executive Officers review of operations Building on the solid growth achieved in each year over the past decade, TRG delivered further profitable progress in 2013.
Introduction The Restaurant Group has an excellent track record of delivering consistent, year on year, growth in cash flow and profits combined with high returns on investment.
Building on the solid growth achieved in each year over the past decade, TRG delivered further profitable progress in 2013.
The Group achieved like-for-like sales growth in 11 out of 12 months with full year like-for-like sales growth of 3.5%.
As in previous years, like-for-like profits also increased.
I am pleased to report that good like-for-like sales growth continues, and, after the first eight weeks of 2014, like-for-like sales are 3.5% ahead of the previous year.
Total sales for 2013 were 580m 2012: 533m an increase of 9% and earnings per share increased by 16% to 28p 2012: 24p : this represents a good result and augurs well for the future.
13% Results increase in EBITDA TRG delivered strong trading metrics for the 52 week period to 29 December 2013: Total sales increased by 9% Like-for-like sales increased by 3.5% 43 million meals were sold EBITDA increased by 13% to 108m Operating profit increased by 13% to 75m 16% Operating margin increased by 40 basis points to 12.9% Pre-tax profit increased by 13% to 72.7m increase in Earnings per share increased by 16% to 28p earnings per share Cash flow generated from operations increased by 15m to 117m Free cash flow increased by 7.9m to 77.1m Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 07 Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Our people and our business Our brands Throughout TRG we aim to continually evolve and improve Frankie & Bennys 232 units our offering food, service, facilities and standards.
Frankie and Bennys traded strongly in 2013 delivering Our menus are reviewed twice a year: our seasonal specials significant increases in turnover, EBITDA and profit.
menus change quarterly and we pay close attention to the Once again, margins were very strong and this is particularly nutritional and calorific content of dishes to ensure that we encouraging as we have been further building the team and have something to match all of our customers requirements.
resource base in anticipation of an increased rate of roll out.
We pay close attention to our childrens offerings to ensure During the year we opened 17 new restaurants of which that they afford the opportunity to form part of a sensibly six were on cinema sites.
Trade at the new openings has balanced diet.
We are also committed to support the been strong and they are on track to deliver excellent returns.
Governments initiatives to encourage healthier lifestyles and, We anticipate opening between 18 and 22 new Frankie and to this end, we have made a number of pledges including salt Bennys restaurants in 2014.
The strength of the Frankie and reduction and encouraging physical activities.
As part of our Bennys brand, its breadth of appeal, versatility and high level ongoing health and safety assurance processes we regularly of customer recognition all contribute to a consistent track conduct testing of products and facilities at our suppliers.
This gives us great confidence that there is significant future roll out potential for this brand.
Our focus continues to be directed towards providing our customers with a great dining experience plenty of choice Coast to Coast 10 units across the price points, offerings geared towards specific We opened our first Coast to Coast restaurant in Brighton parts of the day, good value and superb hospitality and in November 2011.
By the end of 2013 we had ten Coast to service.
We strive to employ the best people and to provide Coast restaurants of which five were opened during the year.
them with an opportunity to develop.
Our staff benefit from a The performance of our Coast to Coast restaurants has been number of training programmes as soon as they join us and, excellent and in a handful of cases, truly exceptional.
They are as they progress, we provide them with the skills necessary set to deliver strong returns.
Eight of our ten Coast to Coast to be efficient and effective managers.
In addition to our restaurants trade alongside either, or both, Frankie and management training programmes, our staff at all levels Bennys and Chiquito.
These three brands complement each have the opportunity to secure qualifications in several areas other well and we plan to continue to open further Coast to relevant to our industry, including food hygiene, health & Coast restaurants alongside our other Leisure brands.
We are safety, NVQs and BII accreditations.
planning to open between five and seven new Coast to Coast restaurants in 2014 and we have identified several dozen We employ more than 12,000 people throughout the UK locations where we are confident that a Coast to Coast and during 2013 more than 1,000 new team members restaurant would trade well.
Our forward pipeline is joined TRG.
As we continue to open new restaurants, encouraging and we believe that this brand has significant roll the opportunities for our people to progress and secure out potential.
promotion increase and this helps TRG to attract and retain high quality team members.
Chiquito 73 units Chiquito performed well in 2013 with a solid increase in revenues and a significant increase in EBITDA, profit and margins.
We opened four new Chiquito restaurants during the year.
They are trading superbly and are set to deliver strong returns.
During 2014 we expect to open between five and seven new Chiquito restaurants.
08 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Chief Executive Officers More than review of operations 12,000 continued employed Garfunkels 16 units The TRG business model and strategy Garfunkels traded superbly during 2013 and this has Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder continued into 2014.
Central London, the traditional heartland value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business of Garfunkels, has been especially buoyant and Garfunkels capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing has benefited from this.
Like-for-like sales growth was cash flows.
Our touchstones are cash flow and return on exceptionally strong and this translated into significant investment.
Our business model enables our shareholders increases in turnover, profit and margins.
We are continuing to enjoy the benefits of high returns on capital, growth in to search for new site opportunities which will deliver our profits and cash flow and sizeable income distributions from required returns.
The Group has a consistent record of converting profits into cash at a very healthy rate, Pub restaurants 49 units and delivering increasing cash flows each year, and in 2013 Our Pub restaurants business traded strongly throughout this was again the case.
the year and delivered significant increases in turnover, profits and margins.
We opened four new Pub restaurants during In 2013 the Group generated 116.8m of operating cash the year and these are trading well and are set to deliver flow and having paid a corporation tax bill of 17.7m, interest strong returns.
During the year our recent opening, The Bulls payments of 1.1m and spending 20.9m on capital Head, at Mottram St. Andrew, won the Good Pub Guides improvements for our existing estate, the Groups free cash Best New Pub of the Year award.
We continue to build flow amounted to more than 77m.
This was 7.9m ahead a portfolio of high quality pubs in terms of location, appeal, of the previous year and continued the Groups record of standard of food and service and, most importantly, growing cash flow each year.
Our Pub restaurant business has the potential to grow significantly over the medium term This cash is put to good use in 2013 we spent almost and also to command a niche position as a high quality, 56m on new developments which will, in turn, contribute to nationwide Pub restaurant business.
During 2014 we expect the continuing growth in the Groups profits and cash flows: to open four to six new Pub restaurants.
we returned almost 25m to our shareholders by way of dividends.
Concessions 60 units Our Concession business traded strongly in 2013 with a This virtuous circle of rising profits being converted into higher solid increase in turnover and significant increases in EBITDA, levels of cash flow which is then invested in new restaurants profits and margins.
Our business continues to gain market which, in turn, deliver high levels of return on invested capital share and, as passenger numbers start to increase, we are is a highly efficacious and value-accretive model.
TRGs confident that this trend can continue.
During the year we business model enables the Group to grow in a predominately opened five new units and these are set to deliver strong organic and highly value-accretive way, funded from its returns.
We expect to open two to four new Concession internally generated funds.
Our model delivers high returns, restaurants in 2014. growth and income in the form of dividends.
The model is robust, resilient and rewarding for our shareholders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 09 56m on new developments 116.8m 25m of operating paid in dividends cash flow TRGs capital structure Capital expenditure and TRG opening programme The Groups capital structure is framed in a sensible and Our key criteria in determining where to invest our capital is prudent manner which enables shareholder value to grow to operate restaurants in locations with high barriers to entry, and which recognises the operational and financial gearing good growth prospects and where we are confident that we inherent in our predominantly lease-based business model.
can secure high returns on investment.
Our focus is on edge In determining the appropriate capital structure, the key of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport locations considerations which we keep under regular review are: and we occupy leading market positions in these segments.
The footprint that the Group occupies in edge and out of 1.
The level of free cash flow generated and our expectation town leisure and airport locations is comprehensive and, for this going forward: from a market positioning perspective, very formidable.
The level of capital investment required to maintain our It would be virtually impossible to replicate this footprint from estate to a high standard and fund our new openings scratch and the Group is well placed to continue to roll out and our expectations with regard to the number of new more restaurants.
The maintenance of our progressive dividend policy Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains and our intention to grow dividends in line with earnings: consistent we focus on cash generation and on securing a return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRGs weighted 4.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources average cost of capital.
We continue to apply the same levels available to take advantage of opportunities to expand of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, experience and risk the business profitably: adjustment to each capital project that we undertake.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources available to cope with a deterioration in trading conditions This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to as a result of an economic downturn or other adverse deviate from it.
This disciplined and consistent approach has factors: and also ensured that our new openings continue to deliver strong 6.
Maintaining a good level of fixed charge cover as returns.
It is particularly encouraging that returns from our measured by the Groups ability to meet and service openings in recent years have been at some of the highest all of its financial obligations.
levels achieved in the past decade.
As a result of strong cash generation, the Group has reduced Our free cash flow generation is sufficient to enable the Group its levels of debt significantly.
In the six years since the end of to accelerate the openings programme whilst maintaining 2007, net debt has reduced from 77m to 42m.
During this maintenance capital expenditure at an appropriate level and period the Group has invested more than 200m in opening pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
Looking forward over 171 new restaurants and acquiring freeholds of our existing the next two to three years the quality and quantity of our Pub restaurants, 85m maintenance capital has been forward pipeline is the best that we have seen for many years.
invested in maintaining the existing estate and 114m has been paid out to shareholders in the form of dividends.
During 2014 we are expecting to open between 36 and 43 During much of this period the economic backdrop has new restaurants and we are also successfully adding to our been poor and at times very bleak.
Against such a backdrop potential pipeline for the next two to three years.
we believe that TRGs prudent capital structure has been appropriate, safeguarding shareholders interests whilst allowing the Group to grow profits and cash flow and for dividends to increase.
10 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Chief Executive Officers review of operations continued Market dynamics and the economy Growth in eating out is a secular trend, driven largely by The backdrop for consumer-facing businesses has been socio-economic factors ageing population, busy lifestyles, especially tricky over the past five years.
The squeeze on more women in the workplace etc.
and this is set to continue household finances has meant that companies in consumerover the longer term.
Despite the current climate TRG has facing businesses have had to adapt and make important been able to secure good levels of like-for-like sales growth choices as to how they operate.
Those companies that have in both 2012 and 2013 and, as conditions improve and established strong market positions, with offerings that are particularly when people feel more confident about their jobs accessible, attractive, convenient, well understood, trusted and incomes, this is likely to accelerate.
and are seen by their customers to offer good value have tended to outperform.
Customers have become more TRGs approach has put us in a strong position to accelerate selective about what, and how, they purchase and it is the growth of the business as UK economic growth becomes noteworthy how important a strong and clear online offering more firmly established.
and communication platform has become for many parts of the retail marketplace.
The ability to read and quickly After several years of declining or static real GDP, the UK adapt to customer trends is increasingly important.
economic outlook has started to look brighter.
This is most welcome and, although some commentators have With many households experiencing a squeeze on funds emphasised that it is founded on consumer spending available for discretionary spend, harder choices between funded via debt and a more buoyant housing market, competing consumption wishes are having to be made.
it is certainly a significant improvement on recent years.
Consumer-facing businesses have had to work harder to claim a share of this smaller cake.
Most of the key UK economic measures and indicators are showing improvement: GDP growth has picked up with Those companies that operate in the dining out sector have the UK recording growth levels well ahead of its European approached these challenges in different ways.
Many have neighbours, inflation has abated and employment levels are chosen to compete for customers largely on price and this at record levels.
The rate of creation of new jobs over the has often manifested itself via heavy promotions and deep last twelve months has been encouraging and if productivity discounting.
Buy one get one free and other similar, deep levels improve it is likely that we will start to see an increase discounting, offers have been rife, and still are.
Our Group in real wage growth, something that has been elusive for has adopted a different approach, focusing on value, several years.
choice and consistency of service and standards.
Last year, the proportion of TRGs revenues which were driven by There are, however, a number of concerns including the promotions was, as in the previous year, very modest.
prospect of a tightening in monetary policy which would We have also increasingly harnessed digital media to lead to higher interest rates impacting households with broaden awareness of our brands and what we can offer.
floating rate mortgages and or other debt to be serviced.
These tactics have served TRG well, enabling it to continue Since 2008 we have witnessed global monetary stimulus to grow profits and protect margins.
on an unprecedented and exceptional scale and the UK has participated extensively in this.
At some point the UKs Eating out has become habitual in the UK and it is an activity loose monetary policy will end the timing and extent of that many people are reluctant to give up.
At our price point the tightening will be an important determinant of the UKs it represents a small ticket item or, to put it another way, prospects for sustained growth and, more particularly, an affordable treat.
In times of fiscal restraint and stretched the prospects for household and consumer finances.
finances, it is a pleasure in which many people still feel able With forward guidance still in its infancy in the UK, it is to indulge.
difficult to predict when, and to what extent, monetary Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 11 36-43 new restaurants expected in 2014 25m to our shareholders by way of dividends tightening will be implemented.
However, it seems clear from The future the Bank of Englands recent pronouncements that low UK This is my final report as The Restaurant Groups Chief interest rates are likely to be with us for some time and this Executive Officer as I will be retiring at the end of August.
is good news from a consumer and household perspective.
It has been a truly remarkable journey which started in June 2001 when we took a business that had lost its way, Low interest rates, low inflation, high levels of employment re-structured and re-orientated it and then, from firm and real wage growth will be key determinants in the foundations, have grown it to become the successful acceleration of growth and thus the medium term outlook company that we have today.
Credit for this success belongs for our sector.
to the TRG team who, at times, have achieved the seemingly impossible and throughout have delivered a consistently fine Future prospects performance for our shareholders.
They are an outstanding Over the past five years, our business has experienced some group of people and it has been my privilege to lead them difficult trading conditions and during that period sales, profits over the past ten years.
and cash flow increased every year.
Also within that period we have devised and developed our new brand, Coast to As so often in past years, 2013 presented some big Coast, and executed its initial roll out very effectively, further challenges.
As always, our team rose to those challenges widening TRGs development path.
All of our people will be working towards replicating this in 2014.
The first two months TRGs businesses command strong market positions in of 2014 have started well with total sales 10% ahead of last each of our chosen segments and our brands are widely year like-for-like sales up 3.5% and we will be looking to recognised for the quality, breadth and value of their offerings.
build further on this as we move through the year.
We have a well proven business model, a strong balance sheet, an experienced management team and are well The Restaurant Group is in great shape and I am confident positioned to continue our expansion.
Just as we did in 2013, that it will continue to prosper.
during 2014 we will continue to: Andrew Page Stick to our areas of expertise: Chief Executive Officer Focus on our customers by providing excellent value, 26 February 2014 choice and service: Maintain high standards of operational efficiency and execution: Carefully control our costs and seek to mitigate and minimise the impact of inflationary input costs: Add high quality new restaurants that meet our investment criteria to our portfolio: and Focus on cash flow, returns and growing shareholder value.
Our aim is to continue to strengthen our market positions, to judiciously roll out our brands and deliver long-term and sustainable profitable growth.
The Group has demonstrated its resilience and we expect it to benefit significantly from an upturn in consumer confidence.
