08 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Chief executives review We did not achieve our target of growing In 2013 the business operating profit ahead of sales.
Reported delivered a good underlying operating profit was 449m 2012 restated: 448m while organic operating profit operational performance, declined 1% as higher metal conversion and and I am encouraged by aluminium premium costs offset the volume growth and foreign currency translation benefits.
the way we managed Underlying profit before tax was 372m 2012 the challenge of a tough restated: 358m, due largely to lower interest costs.
Underlying earnings per share rose 13% macroeconomic climate and to 35.3p driven by growth in adjusted operating higher aluminium premium profit and a lower share count reflecting the share consolidation at the start of the year.
Graham Chipchase Chief executive The highlight of the year was the achievement ADDRESSING CUSTOMER NEEDS of our target of 15% ROCE which we set in 2011.
WITH OPERATIONAL ExCELLENCE It was a great team effort.
We also made good I am encouraged by the strong platform progress on our other strategic priorities see we are building for the Companys future.
While maintaining strict capital The overwhelming majority of the value we discipline, we continued to invest for the future create comes from the products we make, and in markets where we are established and we manufacturing excellence lies at the heart of our strengthened our capabilities in emerging strategy to achieve sustainable profit growth.
markets to support the sustainable growth of the Operational and efficiency improvements make business.
We delivered another year of operational an important contribution to our profit growth efficiency savings consistent with our target.
We each year and we use lean enterprise and six increased our focus on innovation in both products sigma principles and best practice sharing to and processes, and now have a much stronger continually drive efficiency and innovation in our innovation capability.
And at the start of 2014, can making process.
These are complemented in line with our strategy to create a company by sustainability measures to reduce emissions, that maximises return on capital employed, we material usage and waste.
This year we delivered announced that we had signed an agreement to some 20m of savings in line with our expectations divest the majority of the Healthcare packaging see page 18.
I am also hugely encouraged by business and intend to return 450m of the the further recognition from the Shingo Institute As new beverage types are launched proceeds to shareholders.
The fact that we could see page 9 in early 2014 for another two of exemplified here with a US appetite deliver all of this and keep our focus on our our facilities the Enzesfeld can plant in Austria control drink, the can and the strategic priorities in such challenging times and our regional head office in Rio fide Janeiro aluminium bottle can be critical speaks volumes for the commitment and to add to the five already accredited in South elements of the overall demand dedication of our people.
The Rio office is the first corporate office profile and can be a strong platform anywhere in the world to receive a Shingo award.
FINANCIAL SUMMARy OF THE yEAR Our customers look at every option in their search The full financial results and commentary on for profitable growth.
We have to ensure that the our financial position can be found on pages beverage can remains central to their marketing 38 to 44.
In summary, our Groups trading efforts.
Where once we were mostly a relatively performance was slightly below our initial high volume: standard product industry, the expectations.
Total sales which includes demand is now for more flexibility and shorter Healthcare were 4,391m and total underlying runs, all the while retaining low costs.
We will operating profit was 513m.
Total underlying naturally continue our focus on technologies profit before tax was 434m while total that lower cost.
However, addressing the cost underlying earnings per share was 40.6p.
of flexibility and working on viable solutions to In Beverage Cans volume growth was 1% driven meet the need for lower capacity production by the recovery of market share in the US and units in smaller markets are both an important some growth in Europe.
This, combined with the part of our innovation platform see below benefits of foreign exchange translation from the and page 20. stronger US dollar and euro, saw sales grow to 3,943m 2012 restated: 3,885m.
Organic INNOvATION IS A PRIORITy sales, which adjust for the impact of foreign Innovation is an area we have consistently currency translation, were down 1% primarily highlighted as important to our future, and due to the pass through of lower aluminium costs during 2013 we made good progress establishing which were around 10% lower than in 2012. the internal structures, governance and areas of activity to address this strategic priority.
We took the decision to participate earlier in the technology value chain and are now allocating part of our innovation funds to earlier stage development to help academic ideas come to commercial fruition.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 09 1 The overwhelming majority of the value we create comes from the products we make, and manufacturing excellence lies at the heart of our strategy to achieve sustainable profit growth.
1 For the second year in a row we have been recognised by The Shingo Institute the global review of operational excellence.
In 2013, our South American plants Manaus and Extrema were awarded a silver medal each, and Cuiab was recognised with bronze.
In 2014, our can plant in Enzesfeld, Austria, became our first accredited European plant, while our office in Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil, became the first corporate office in the world to be recognised by The Shingo Institute.
2 The proliferation of can sizes and the increased number of label changes puts new demands on the can manufacturing process.
The plant in Fosie, Sweden, for example, managed more than 4,500 label changes during the year but kept their high levels of service and delivered record volumes along the way.
3 Our Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR performance in 2013 did not improve on 2012.
More than half of the accidents 2 3 were caused by unsafe behaviour rather than poor processes or equipment and we are challenging paradigms and expectations with a new three year world class safety plan from 2014, called LIFE, as we reinvigorate our efforts to remove accidents from our sites and sustain that level.
During the year, we invested to further our to say that we achieved 16 of those targets and everything else.
So I am disappointed that, while knowledge and understanding of the technology made considerable progress on the other four.
our safety performance has improved in recent involved in aluminium smelting and rolling.
In As you will see on page 36, our progress has had years and remains by industry standards high, February 2014, we took an equity stake in a major positive impact on our business in terms of we made little progress in 2013.
We value the Magnaparva Packaging, which draws on reduced material usage and on the environment.
safety of our people and we have a concrete plan specialist expertise in the aerospace and We are now embarking on a new phase.
At the of action with a major Group safety programme, defence sectors, to investigate disruptive start of 2014, we will be undertaking a new LIFE, see caption above to get us back on track to technologies in metal forming to drive can materiality study to confirm the main sustainability reducing the number of accidents and incidents.
lightweighting and reduce energy consumption.
issues relevant to us and our key stakeholders and On a more positive note it was very encouraging from this we will develop further our sustainability to see a high response rate to our most recent SUSTAINABILITy IS A CORE PLATFORM framework and set challenging targets.
Our employee Sustainability continues to be an important engagement index, which provides a picture of platform of our strategy and a key element in OUR PEOPLE DELIvER how satisfied and proud we are as a team, was reducing our costs and supporting our customers.
Our drive for operational excellence extends 72% favourable.
The corresponding figure in It is about doing the right thing for our business, to our people.
In the face of a tough operating 2010 was 62%, so we have made good progress our people and the environment over the longer environment this year they have continued to do over the last three years with almost all items in term.
At the start of 2011 we set ourselves 20 the Company proud.
They the survey showing improvement.
ambitious sustainability targets for 2013 covering play a vital role in the success of our business our products, operations and people.
I am proud and we value their safety and wellbeing above 10 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Chief executives review continued OPERATIONAL REvIEW OF THE yEAR Innovation in Europe has focused largely on TM Beverage Cans global volumes increased 1% our award winning FUSION bottle which our on 2012.
North America continued to perform customers see as an important package for the strongly as it recovered market share but volumes future.
During the year, we ramped up production An increase of 1% for in Western Europe and South America proved at our plant in the Czech Republic and in 2014 cans in the pack mix disappointing, especially in the first half of the we will continue to invest in line speed up as well year.
Organic sales were down 1% as volume as value adding contouring technologies.
The in Europe equates to growth was offset by the pass through of lower specific technology we use will ultimately allow an extra 2.7bn cans aluminium prices.
us to make the bottles with less material and, as the only manufacturer in Europe with access to per year.
Organic operating profit was down 1% at this technology, we expect to gain competitive 449m mainly due to higher metal conversion advantage.
We also completed the conversion and premium costs in both Europe and South to new lighter weight ends.
The effect was compounded by a weaker mix of products as the share recovery in We were vigorous in defending our market share lower margin standard cans in North America in key markets in western Europe.
In the first half was offset by the negative mix impact of weaker we started production of standard cans at a new volumes in Europe especially Russia.
plant in Finland to serve the growing Nordic market.
We opened a fourth line at our Ludesch Beverage Can Europe plant in Austria to add an extra 0.7bn cans to The beverage can market in Europe comprises the plants capacity and also announced that we about 58bn cans, making it the third largest in are to build a new can plant dedicated to energy the world, after North America and Asia.
Rexam drinks in Widnau, Switzerland.
The latter will is the leading can maker with some 40% market represent a total investment of some 115m over share.
The market has been growing at 3% pa three years and will provide an extra 2.2bn cans since 2008 in a period of very low or non existent when all three lines are completed.
The first line macroeconomic growth across the region.
Growth is expected to come on stream in 2015. has been driven largely by beer and carbonated soft drinks CSD.
Despite a c 2% pa decline in Beverage Can North America beer consumption and little growth in the amount After peaking in 1994 at more than 100bn cans, of CSD consumed in the last five years, the the North American market has slowly reduced to In North America, we have supported beverage can market has continued to grow in its current c 94bn can market.
Can consumption both categories as the pack mix shifts towards remains the highest in the world at more than more than 40 new beer customers in recent years with a range of beverage cans.
Energy drinks have grown at a rate of 330 cans per capita per year.
Rexam has more 13% pa in the same period and, as the can is than 20% of the North American market.
Following can options from standard 12oz, TM through Sleek to 24oz to help launch the container of choice in this beverage category, contract negotiations in 2010 we lost market share it has been a major driver of can growth.
which we have now regained over the last three and differentiate their products.
As a result we have a more diversified In 2013, the weak macroeconomic backdrop in customer base and we do not expect significant Europe made for challenging trading.
In Western changes in market share in the next few years, Europe, after a particularly cold winter and spring except for normal marginal movements.
we had a strong second half, with volume in standard cans growing 6%.
There was particularly In 2013, the North American beverage can market strong growth in the Nordic countries and the UK, overall declined 3% led by a drop in sales of CSD.
partly offset by some weakness in Spain.
As a Our North American can business, however, result standard cans were up 4% for the full year.
traded well and our own volumes grew 7% as we regained market share.
Standard cans were Specialty cans were 3% lower due to some share up 11% but, although there was some good growth loss in the Benelux region but overall growth in in certain specialty can sizes, overall our specialty energy drinks remained good.
can volumes were down 3% against a very strong In Russia, regulatory changes banning the sale 2012 performance following the successful launch TM of beer in kiosks resulted in an 8% decline in of Sleek cans.
the market for beer cans and although this was We maintained a strong focus on operations and partially offset by strong growth in CSD in cans, during the year all our plants in the US were Safe the overall can market declined by 2%.
Even Quality Food SQF certified.
Our cost reduction though absolute volumes for beer cans were efforts continued apace with further improvement down, we estimate that they captured a greater in efficiencies and material usage.
proportion of the pack mix.
In 2013, the expected new competitor capacity came on stream and as a result we lost market share.
We now have around 70% of the Russian beverage can market and expect our share to stabilise.
We remain confident about the prospects and potential of this market.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 11 There was further progress in product innovation.
There was growth in Argentina while in Chile LOOKING AHEAD AS A FOCUSED We launched, for example, a new 25oz can to volumes improved significantly, driven by the BEvERAGE CAN MAKER meet customer demand and to complement the additional demand for energy drinks in Rexam is now a focused beverage can maker.
Our aim is to be the best in the industry and we already popular 24oz size, and we completed specialty cans and by customers strategies to the creation of a new liner for the Rexam CapCan, promote single serve packages.
We are adding have refined our strategy accordingly.
Our intent, as ever, is to win, as we achieve a balance a leading resealable package choice for many a new specialty can line in Chile to satisfy the energy drink customers.
This means that CapCan increasing demand for these types of cans.
between growth and returns to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
See page 13. can now be used to package beer, dairy and Preparations in Brazil are well advanced for both spirits.
The craft beer market, where the can is the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics and We are committed to maintaining ROCE at the packaging of choice, showed continued around 15% as we grow the Company.
It is a the work on infrastructure and public transport strong growth albeit from a small base.
We have in major cities is creating jobs and helping to level of returns we deem appropriate given our supported more than 40 new beer customers asset base and geographic exposure.
We have stimulate the economy.
Our customers are in recent years with a range of beverage can continuing to invest as planned, adding significant learnt valuable lessons over the last three years TM options from standard 12oz, through Sleek around managing costs, optimising cash and the filling capacity in Brazil over the next three years.
to 24oz to help launch and differentiate disciplined employment of capital, and we will their products.
Beverage Can Africa, Middle East & Asia continue to keep these under close watch.
Historically our emerging market growth has been Outside the US, we see significant potential for There are five main themes directing the strategy: largely confined to Russia and Brazil where we further growth in Mexico and Central America We will invest to capture growth opportunities are the leading player in both countries.
We are with their increasing populations and improving now looking to develop new markets in Africa, and to protect our core business, all the while GDP.
We are participating in this growth through maintaining the strict capital discipline of Middle East & Asia AMEA which account for our own plant in Queretaro, Mexico, where we 75% of the worlds population and one third of recent years and a focus on returns.
have seen specialty can growth of around 30% total global beverage can volumes.
They also since 2010, and through a joint venture in We will strengthen our customer relationships, represent significant proportions of our customers Guatemala, which has doubled its volume since not simply by providing best in class quality and sales, and as they are now investing more in these 2006.
We continue to strengthen our relationships customer service at the right cost but also by markets, there is an opportunity not only for us to with regional customers and provide technical working with them strategically and proactively.
grow our business in line with theirs but also to support to other local can manufacturers as we We will strengthen ties through commercial seek alliances with local beverage producers.
continue to explore additional opportunities.
excellence and marketing capability and innovating to meet the challenge of profitable We established our own AMEA organisation Beverage Can South America at the start of 2013 in Dubai: it is a suitable hub growth in a lower growth world.
Brazil, Chile and Argentina are the three main from which to manage the existing footprint and We will pursue continuous improvement in markets we serve in South America.
In total they explore new opportunities.
Operations consist of operational excellence with special emphasis consume c 23bn cans.
Our largest market is plants in Turkey, Egypt and India, the latter which on delivering first class products at cost at or Brazil where we are market leader with more we successfully converted from steel to aluminium.
below those of our competitors.
In Chile and Argentina There is also a long standing joint venture in South we are the sole can makers.
We will shape our future by innovating Korea which mostly supplies the local market.
and continuing to improve our sustainability In 2013, trading in South America was volatile.
We also have technical licences in Iran, China performance to underpin our licence to operate GDP growth in Brazil slowed to 2% and inflation and Australia.
and to support our customers as they face was around 6%.
In response to the weakening In February 2014, we announced the acquisition increasing consumer and legislative pressures.
macroeconomic environment and declining of a majority holding in United Arab Can UAC, disposable incomes, our customers prioritised Finally, we will continue to build a winning Saudi Arabia, with an annual capacity of 1.8bn specialty cans to differentiate their products organisation with the right structure and cans in both standard and specialty sizes.
Upon and provide attractive price points with talent to support delivery of our strategy.
completion of the deal later in 2014, the plant different can sizes.
will provide another bridgehead into growing Next year we will be reporting against these The overall market in Brazil was up 4% driven markets and we plan to work together with our five areas.
by a 32% increase in specialty size volumes partners in UAC to expand in the region.
The work that we have done to restructure our with standard cans volumes declining 5%.
In 2013, volumes declined slightly in the AMEA Company means that we are in good shape Our volumes in South America were down 1%.
Although volumes almost doubled in India, operationally.
In 2014, despite an uncertain The market weakness in standard cans drove most albeit from a low base, sales were disrupted by macroeconomic environment and some of the 8% decline in our standard can volumes.
social unrest in Egypt and Turkey in the latter part continued cost volatility, we expect to make This was partly offset by a 22% increase in of the year and we remain watchful of trading further progress on a constant currency basis.
We were constrained in terms conditions in those regions.
We remain committed to managing what we of specialty can capacity in the first half of the can control and focusing on cash, cost and year but we converted our line in Belm to make return on capital employed as we pursue our specialty cans, and are in the process of converting strategy of balancing growth and returns.
With our footprint adjusted to meet customer needs, we started to see a significant improvement in our performance and our volumes were up 5% in the seasonally strong final quarter.
We continue to monitor the market closely and will convert more capacity if needed to ensure we can meet the market growth in 2014.
