Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 6 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In 2013, Rolls-Royce continued to grow Our business priorities in 2013 remained gas-powered engines and advanced its order book and expand itsportfolio.
the same as in previous years, and have been propulsion systems that together reduce CO 2 The Group increased its underlying profits, characterised as The 4 Cs: emissions by 40percent, compared with and underlying revenues.
The order book equivalent diesel-powered vessels.
Lastly, Customer deliver on the promises increased to 71.6billion.
BAE Systems announced that the UKs Type 26 we have made Destroyer programme will feature four MTU This performance demonstrates both the diesel gensets from Power Systems, together long-term demand for our products and Concentration decide where to grow with our Trent-derived MT30 gas turbines.
services, and the confidence our customers and where not to place in us.
Concentration Cost and Cash improve financial Concentration means deciding where to We strive continually to improve quality, performance invest for future growth and where not.
To that end we invest We have two technology platforms: gas in innovation, infrastructure and in the In 2013, we have made progress in all of turbines and reciprocating engines.
Within global workforce upon whose ability and these, although there remains much more gas turbines, we have a strong Civil aerospace ambition our current and future success to do.
business, with over 60billion in orders.
I am impressed every day We will continue to invest here, including in by the commitment and professionalism of Customer the next generation of narrow-body aircraft my colleagues around the world and I thank It is essential that we deliver on the promises engines.
We will also look for opportunities them for their hard work.
Across the business to expand in reciprocating engines.
we have significantly improved on-time The leaders of the Group have devoted delivery.
This foundational step will In 2013, we acquired Hyper-Therm HTC, considerable time and energy into strengthen our customer relationships and a specialist ceramics company, to increase articulating the vision, values, strategy and drive more efficient use of resources, such our capabilities in ceramic matrix materials business priorities that we share, as well as inventory.
In Civil aerospace, on-time that will, in the future, play a critical part in as setting out the standards of behaviours delivery to our wide-body customers was improving the performance of gas turbine expected from everybody at Rolls-Royce.
100percent in 2013 for the first time.
We also acquired a Norwegian Providing clarity on these core beliefs, company, SmartMotor AS, a leader in the and making sure they are understood by In 2013, major milestones were achieved permanent magnet technology employed everyone in the Group will enable us to in a number of important programmes.
We integrated PKMJ better serve our customers and secure The Airbus A350 XWB flew for the first time Technical Services, a US-based nuclear a profitable future for our employees and powered by our Trent XWB engines.
We have engineering services business with expertise shareholders.
now received orders for more than in extending the life of nuclear plants.
1,600TrentXWBs, making this our bestVision: better power for a changing world selling Trent engine.
The Trent 1000 engine, Areas where we have decided not to grow Values: trusted to deliver excellence which powers the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, include the sale of our 50percent holding has achieved the best performance of any in the RTM322 helicopter engine programme Strategy: customer, innovation, new wide-body engine entering service, with to Turbomeca, a Safran company.
In June, it These are described in greater length on was selected by Singapore Airlines to power pages 8 and 9.
In Marine, the first of our innovative Environships went to sea.
This vessel combines a wave-piercing bow, Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 7 John Rishton Chief Executive We continue to invest significantly to deliver It is important that everyone at Rolls-Royce Cost our order book.
In 2013, capital expenditure recognises that they are an ambassador for The highly regulated nature of the aerospace was 687million 590million excluding the Group.
We have set out three common industry means that it will take both time Tognum and 491million in 2012.
This behaviours that will make sure we maintain and tenacity to drive cost out of the included two new aero-engine test facilities: high ethical standards, build trust with our business, and we are still not where we need one at the NASA Stennis Space Center in customers and each other and help secure to be.
However there are a number of areas Mississippi, US, and the other at Dahlewitz, the long-term success of our business: where progress is being made.
We have extended our global indirect headcount by 11percent, with win right securing business fair Marine services network with a new facility further savings identified for 2014.
Unit cost and square: in Guangzhou, China.
An advanced aerofoil fell in Marine, Energy and Power Systems, machining facility at Crosspointe in Virginia, focus with firm resolve decide what although this was more than offset by an US, will begin production in 2014.
In the UK, needs to be done, then focus relentlessly increase in Civil, where capacity growth has production has started at our new state-ofon delivery refusing to be distracted: and preceded volume growth and the cost per the-art fan disc factory in Washington, Tyne unit has predictably risen.
We are building communicate simply, consistently and Wear and we are also close to completing newer, more efficient facilities and capacity and often.
a new turbine blade factory in Rotherham.
that will support a doubling of production Every aspect of the Groups performance of Trent engines.
We are moving production In January 2013, we appointed Lord Gold to results from the endeavours of the 55,000 away from high cost countries, and we are lead a review of our process and procedures men and women who share a vision of consolidating our supply chain.
These regarding compliance and business ethics.
delivering better power for a changing actions will deliver benefits over time.
This followed our report to the Serious Fraud world.
It is their ingenuity and commitment We have prioritised investment that Office SFO of concerns about bribery and alongside our continued investment in improves operational performance, adds corruption involving intermediaries in technology, that allows us to seize the to our technical capability and reduces cost.
In December, the SFO opportunities that our changing world This includes a shop floor IT modernisation confirmed that it had begun a formal presents and to face the future with programme that will increase operational investigation into these matters.
efficiency and an Integrated Production co-operated fully with the regulatory Systems programme that will improve authorities and will continue to do so.
John Rishton delivery to customers while reducing cost.
Chief Executive During the year, we published a new Global Code of Conduct.
Under a programme 12 February 2014 Cash implemented in 2013, all employees are The Group delivered a cash inflow of asked to certify they have: received a copy 359million 312million excluding of the Global Code: read and understood it: Tognum, after payments to shareholders, will comply with it: and have received a prior to acquisitions, disposals and foreign management briefing.
Inventory has been an area of explicit that we will not tolerate improper significant focus.
While substantially business conduct of any sort.
We have improving our on-time delivery to customers updated and re-launched our confidential and preparing for the ramp-up in volumes, reporting line for employees, now known we have improved inventory turns from as the Ethics Line, available 24 hours a day, 3 times to 3.4 times, excluding Tognum.
to make sure that we can hear about and This is one of the largest one-year address any matters of concern.
improvements in our stock turns.
