Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 14 chief executives review Rotorks performance once again highlights the benefits of our diverse end market exposure and the critical role that our products play in keeping the world flowing.
We have continued to invest in our product portfolio and international sales channels and each of our divisions has achieved record results this year.
Peter France chieF executive At our Capital Markets Day in November we such as Schischek have boosted our industrial Record order intake, revenue and introduced our new strapline, Keeping the and mining sales, which rose by 18% such profit in each division World Flowing.
As a flow control company, that revenue from these end markets is now Sales to oil & gas market up 24% Rotorks products impact our everyday lives very close to our sales in the water market.
Four acquisitions completed in from the moment we wake until the end of the year the day, whether we are turning on a light, During the year we invested in our Increased product portfolio filling a kettle or putting fuel in our car.
Our infrastructure and will continue to do so in Increased investment in products operate in some of the most remote 2014.
Our sales office network will continue infrastructure and challenging environments, where to grow as we look at opportunities for new reliability and local support are vital to keep offices in Eastern Europe, China, Southern Our geographic presence continues to grow our customers operations running.
These new locations have and during the year we expanded our industries we serve often have high barriers been identified as areas where either there is a factories in Shanghai and Houston, moved to to entry and our products often require significant installed base of our products new facilities in Malaysia, Mexico, Middle East certification because of their mission-critical which will provide service opportunities or and Brazil and opened a new office in Bath, nature.
Our strategy is to continue to expand where there are opportunities for new UK.
We now have 24 manufacturing sites, 58 our product portfolio and strengthen our product sales.
We will also continue to invest national offices and 81 regional locations in geographic reach, whilst broadening our in our existing locations with the new factory 34 countries.
In total we have over 800 sales end-market exposure.
in Leeds due to complete in 2014, the planned channels in 95 countries.
In line with our expansion of our Singapore office and our strategy and the requirements of our In 2013 we saw a 24% increase in sales to business in Bilbao, Spain, relocated to new customers, we remain focused on building a the oil & gas market, which now represents and larger premises.
truly global operation with a local presence.
These sales were into many different parts of the oil & gas industry Research and Development The year ended strongly, with order intake with upstream sales increasing to 11% of Innovation remains a core driver of our growth returning to the levels we saw at the start of Group revenue, mid stream to 22% and and 2013 has seen product launches or range 2013, although the strengthening of sterling downstream reducing to 26%.
The increases expansions in all divisions.
In Controls we reduced the fourth quarter reported order in upstream and midstream were driven extended the range of IQ3 sizes and options intake by 6.1% compared with the first partly by the major projects delivered during available and continued the process of quarter.
For the year as a whole order intake the year in Australia and Mexico.
The Indian certifying the product for more of the markets was 578.7m, 7.3% higher than 2012. power market has still not regained its former we sell into.
In Fluid Systems the second phase Acquisitions contributed 4.9% of the growth strength and, combined with the of the Gas-over-Oil product range was and currency a further 1.6%.
consequential effect this has had on demand launched and both Gears and Instruments from Chinese boiler makers, revenue from the launched a number of new ranges.
During the year, we delivered on orders from a power market declined 13%.
The long-term number of the larger projects won in 2012.
As drivers behind this market remain positive and a result, revenue grew 13.0% to 578.4m and we remain confident that it will return to was boosted by a record output in the last growth.
Water sales grew 4% with products quarter, beating the previous record set in the serving this end market now to be found in final quarter of 2012, with organic constant each of the divisions.
The growth of our currency growth of 6.3%.
The adjusted Instruments division and recent acquisitions operating profit margin was 26.2%, a 40 basis point improvement on 2012.
Strategic Report 01-41 15 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 chief executives review 13.0% revenue growth We have continued to add to the number of have over 350 service employees around the Corporate Social Responsibility engineers who are focused on product world.
The number of actuators under some We recognise our responsibilities relating to our development and we have restructured our form of preventative maintenance contract is people, the companies we trade with, as well electronics development team to reflect the greater than 120,000. as the communities and physical environments fact that this resource supports all of the in which we work.
The Rotork Corporate Social divisions rather than just Controls.
Our spend Our people Responsibility CSR Committee has set high on R&D increased once again this year, up Rotork is a great place to work and it is standards in order for these to be embedded 13.4% to 8.4m, despite the investment in important for our people to have input into within each business.
There are four SubIQ3 now being past the peak spend prior to the development and future of the Company.
Committees which each report to the CSR initial launch.
The initiatives currently being For nearly sixty years we have sought to foster Committee throughout the year on the worked on will support product launches in an open and honest culture based on progress made in the areas of environment, 2014 and beyond.
In November we health and safety, ethics and social issues.
conducted our annual Employee Satisfaction Rotork Site Services RSS Survey, where the response rate increased WaterAid continues to be our chosen global RSS predominately operates within Rotork from 77% to 79% and the overall satisfaction charity with 55,000 donated by Rotork Controls and Rotork Fluid Systems and we score also improved.
The global results together with 6,600 contributed by have built on this position to provide a showed that on average people are most employee fundraising events.
We also standard approach to how we service satisfied with Rotorks products and services, support local charitable events and customers of all our products and divisions.
our approach to health and safety, values and additionally this year we have made a special The team focuses on their ability to provide ethics, are happy that they have a secure and donation to the Institute of Cancer Research, service and support in virtually every country interesting job and would recommend Rotork London.
It has been a particularly difficult in the world through preventative as an employer to a friend.
year with cancer deeply affecting the lives maintenance contracts, onsite and workshop and families of a number of our colleagues.
Our workforce increased by 250 people in 2013.
From the four acquisitions we For more information about the CSR Our flow control products are often required welcomed 168 employees to the Rotork Committee and details of the work carried to support operations in some of the most family and 82 were recruited through growth out during the year see pages 34 to 41. remote and challenging environments and our in our existing locations.
This means we now References to adjusted profit throughout this document customers demand reliable products.
Should have over 3,050 employees based in 34 are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit they require support, local service is critical.
or profit before tax, with 12.1m 2012: 7.4m of extend our current offering we are launching amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
a new Client Support Programme in 2014 that The success of Rotork is down to the hard will offer a tailor-made service that precisely work and dedication of our people.
I would fits the specific needs of every customer.
like to personally thank each and every one of them for making Rotork the market The performance of RSS is measured against leading world-class business that it is today.
key metrics including the number of service engineers.
In 2013 we increased the number of service engineers by 9% so that we now
