Chief Executives review Business performance The group delivered another year of strong W ith some 72% of EBITA coming from financial performance, with investment in developing markets, SABMiller continues ourbrands, production capacity, product innovation and trade execution capability to enjoy the highest exposure of any driving growth across a number of our global brewer to a wide number of growth businesses.
Group revenue rose by 7% on an organic, constant currency basis, supported opportunities in the beer industry.
by organic volume growth of 4% for total beverages.
Revenue per hectolitre rose by 3% on an organic, constant currency basis, re ecting selective price increases and a continued focus on expanding our portfolios up and down the price ladder.
Operating costs have been controlled despite signi cant commodity in ation and currency headwinds, contributing to a 70 basis point expansion on a reported basis of the group EBITA margin which was 18.6%.
With some 72% of EBITA coming from developing markets, SABMiller continues toenjoy the highest exposure of any global brewer to a wide number of growth opportunities in the beer industry.
Although underlying economic conditions have slowed in some of those markets during the year, most notably Latin America, South Africa andChina, we believe the economic fundamentals remain highly attractive over the long term.
SABMillers superior position inthese markets re ects the longstanding commitment and investment made to securing positions which are now deeply rooted in local markets up and down the value chain, from farming through to production, distribution, retail and consumption.
The social and economic progress of the markets in which we operate is therefore of direct interest to us as we seek to grow our business in a way which is sustainable both locally and globally.
The jobs we create, the taxes we pay, the skills we impart and the environmental footprint we leave affect not In my new capacity as Chief Executive, Alan Clark just the communities we serve but our ability Iwould like to highlight the sadness shared to grow our businesses for the long term.
Chief Executive by all of us in the group at the news of Graham Mackays illness, diagnosed in During the last nine months, while managing April2013, and his subsequent decision the groups executive committee as Chief tostep down early as Executive Chairman.
Operating Of cer, I have had the opportunity Grahamscontribution to SABMillers to review our operations, partnerships, success is immeasurable, and I am sure brands and people.
The experience has thatall the groups shareholders and beena powerful reminder of the strengths, employees would join me in expressing our rigorously and consistently applied, that deep gratitude for everything he has done underpin SABMillers successful operating tomake SABMiller the resounding success model.
This approach is founded on deep that it is today.
The commitment, skill and local insights, complemented by an increasingly foresight with which he has led the business collaborative approach to codifying and since 1997 will remain an inspiration to a reapplying global best practice around the newgeneration of SABMiller management.
As the nature of growth in our industry Speaking personally, his energy, wise changes over time however, our ability to counsel and good humour have greatly learn, adapt and deploy new knowledge enriched my working experience here.
atspeed and with scale will require the continual evolution of our approach and business model.
10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Expanding our operations in Africa We continue to invest in new capacity across Africa with the commissioning of three new facilities in Zambia left, Uganda and Nigeria.
Inaddition, capacity constraints were alleviated through the expansion of operations in Ghana, South Sudan and Zimbabwe.
Growing the core of our business with Similarly in South Africa, Castle Lager, Driving our premium portfolios mainstream beers abrand synonymous with our own history Consumer tastes continually evolve, and Earlier in this report, John Manser refers and heritage, demonstrated that a beer with newgenerations are now looking for premium toSABMillers core strength in cultivating more than 100 years of sales behind it can and craft beers which are both authentic andsustaining agship mainstream lager be just as vital and relevant to an entirely new andclearly differentiated in their markets.
brands which remain faithful to their heritage generation of consumers, posting its second SABMiller has created and led this local while also establishing new connections successive year of double digit growth.
premium segment in many markets, a lead andrelevance with todays consumer.
which is now being secured as we do more Thisstrength was notable in the year as to develop the opportunity around the world.
ourinsight into local retail and consumer We are expanding our environments supported progress in In Latin America we reported encouraging innovation programmes to developed and developing markets alike.
results from our premium portfolio, driven by the strong performance of the Miller brand address a wider range of styles In Latin America, for example, we have range.
In Panama, Miller Lite and Miller and price points, enabling beenworking hard to secure beers place Genuine Draft MGD enjoyed strong growth, asthe leading alcohol choice, meeting the consumers rstly to trade more consolidating their leadership positions in aspirations of new consumers and enhancing thepremium and super premium segments.
easily out of informal alcohol the affordability and accessibility of our Similarly in Ecuador and El Salvador, our and then totrade up within a products and packs to suit different localpremium brands, Club and Suprema occasions.
As a result, we have seen growing respectively, saw double digit growth from more dynamic beer category.
consumer loyalty to core brands such as the addition of the red beer variants, Club Cristal in Peru, Pilsener Light in Ecuador, Roja and Suprema Roja.
Pilsener in El Salvador and guila Light in Lastly, in dif cult markets on both sides of Colombia where an enhanced sales service In response to the popularity of many theAtlantic, our ability to drive top line growth model, driven by centralised telesales and beersin the craft segment, MillerCoors with established brands has been evident.
dedicated account developers, helped issuccessfully reorienting its portfolio to Inthe USA, Coors Light has become the improve trade coverage and distribution.
increase its contribution from a more diverse second largest beer brand in the country, range of premium brands.
Tenth and Blake, growing its share of the premium light In Australia, I am especially pleased with the MillerCoors craft and imports business, segment through the execution of a theprogress we have achieved at Carlton & continued its strong performance driven by successful sales and marketing strategy, United Breweries CUB.
This is discussed Blue Moon, Peroni Nastro Azzurro and the together with the consistent and powerful inthe operations review for the Asia Paci c Leinenkugels brand family, which has had realisation of its Refreshment as cold as region on page 30.
Recent signs of notable success this year with Leinenkugels theRockies campaign.
In Europe, agship improvement in CUBs market share re ect Summer Shandy.
brands Tyskie in Poland and Timisoreana better relationships with key retail partners, inRomania increased volume and market the bene ts from restructuring our sales In Africa, too, we are catering for a new and share, driven by innovations in products forceand early results from repositioning aspiring middle class with exciting premium andpacks together with strong sales and thebrand portfolio.
This is exempli ed by offerings.
Castle Lite, featured on the front marketing delivery.
theturnaround of Victoria Bitter which has ofthis report, generated exceptional volume been returned to its original recipe and growth across our Africa division.
In South relaunched into the market, reversing a Africa the brand has doubled its sales in the near-10 year negative trend.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 11 Chief Executives review continued Well-crafted beers the Tenth and Blake division offers a roster of Over the course of the year, comment and original brews including Blue Moon Belgian debate about craft beer has intensi ed, driven White, Leinenkugels, and Batch 19.
In Australia by consumers in more developed beer markets our Matilda Bay brewery produces Redback expressing a preference for a wider range of tastes Beer, Bohemian Pilsner, Beez Neez, Alpha Pale and avours.
The interest, passion and excitement Ale and Dogbolter while our Yatala brewery that craft beer brings to the category is something produces the hugely successful Fat Yak Pale we are enthusiastic supporters of, using the Ale and Dirty Granny cider.
We also provide a opportunity ourselves to innovate with new styles global distribution network for St Stefanus, a and recipes, demonstrating the pride and skill Belgian Abbey beer with a monastic heritage that goes into our brewing.
With the introduction dating back to 1295. of avours such as honey, spices and fruits, we are inspiring new rituals that lend themselves to a Our local approach to brewing allows us to draw different range of serving occasions or complement on the heritage and values of the communities certain foods.
we serve, informing deep consumer insights.
We provide economic bene ts to the countries As the majority of SABMillers beers are produced in which we operate by building value chains and consumed locally, we are well placed to bene t that drive growth and stimulate social from the growing interest in the quality, provenance development by using local resources and and personality of local craft beer.
In the USA, rawmaterials in a sustainable fashion.
three years since its relaunch, leveraging to share.
An example is Pilsen Trujillo in We also play our part in tackling the resource itshighly successful Extra Cold positioning Peruwhich recorded double digit growth challenges we jointly share with local to account for more than 10% of the total bypersuading consumers to switch from communities, such as water, food and energy beer market.
We aim to run our breweries as ef ciently as possible, and Im pleased to Innovation and expanding MillerCoors now has a full pipeline of report good progress against our water and thebeercategory innovations, illustrated by the launch of Redds carbon reduction targets.
In the year, our From craft beers and ciders in the USA, Apple Ale and Third Shift Amber Lager into water consumption per hl of lager produced Europe and Australia, to beers brewed the above-premium segment this year.
was 3.7 hl, an 8% reduction on the previous withentirely new raw materials in Africa, we year.
Over the same period, our fossil fuel are expanding our innovation programmes Making good on our responsibilities emissions totalled 11.1 kgCO2e per hl of lager toaddress a wider range of styles and Combating the harmful use of alcohol and produced, a year-on-year drop of 10%.
pricepoints, enabling consumers rstly related issues such as drink-driving or totrade more easily out of informal alcohol underage drinking are important priorities for Businesses, governments and civil society andthen to trade up within a more dynamic us.
In October 2012, in response to the call need to work in partnership to develop beer category.
by the World Health Organisation and its practical, local solutions to manage scarce member states in the WHOs Global Strategy resources.
In areas where water security In Europe, we have introduced a number to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, we presents a potential challenge to our.
ofproduct innovations such as the Ksiaze ce signed a five-year global action plan with business, we are taking a leading role in range of speciality beers in Poland, Fenix other leading beer, wine and spirits creating partnerships such as the Strategic wheat beer in the Czech Republic and companies to help reduce the harmful use Water Partners Network in South Africa.
lower-alcohol Radlers or shandies in ofalcohol.
We operate over 100 programmes Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary around the world to contribute to reducing Investment andSlovakia.
the harmful use of alcohol, often working Capital expenditure for the year was withlocal partners, governments, law US$1,479 million as we continued to invest We launched our second African cassavaenforcement agencies and communities.
selectively in support of future growth.
based beer in Ghana during the year, Newbreweries were commissioned in building on the success of the cassavaZambia, Nigeria and Uganda, with further based Impala brand which was launched capacity expansion completed in Ghana We play our part in tackling twoyears ago in Mozambique.
theresource challenges itoffers consumers an affordable alternative to illicit or informal alcohol while directly Through social investment programmes we jointly share with local facilitating the development of a local which directly support the communities communities, such as water, agricultural supply chain.
This year, wework in, we have helped entrepreneurs ourAfrican division sourced 52% of its food and energy security.
establish thousands of new businesses and agricultural raw materials from within grow to become successful job creators in Africa, achieving its 2014 target of 50% their own right.
This year alone SABMiller ayear aheadof schedule.
including our foundations invested Our approach to helping reduce alcohol US$6 million in programmes to foster harmalso requires us to regularly review Our traditional African beer, Chibuku, is now entrepreneurial activity worldwide.
ourcommercial governance practices to available in 10 markets with a new variant, ensure we are meeting societys expectations.
Chibuku Super, expanding the category and We believe that our policies on employee geographic footprint of our more affordable behaviour, commercial communication and products still further.
Similarly in Latin product innovation are progressive and America, we have continued the expansion industry-leading, as is our company-wide ofour bulk pack offerings, making beer education programme that reinforces our moreaffordable for low-income consumers beliefs in this important area.
12 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Leveraging our global scale Each of our businesses is responsible for Our business capability programme has ensuring a safe working environment in continued to progress, with the deployment itsbreweries, bottling plants and of ces.
of the global Information Services solution Ouraim is to create a healthy and positive inEcuador completed in the first half, and workplace for our employees, and more thenecessary preparations completed in detail on our health and safety record can thesecond half for deployment in Poland, befound on page 48 of this report.
Addressing risks Bene t delivery is tracking ahead of We recognise that running a global business expectations and SABMiller Procurement has presents complex risks.
Our aim is to continued to drive substantial value from the maximise the opportunities and minimise way we source our raw materials, goods and thethreats that any given risk presents so services.
In Europe, a project to understand asto generate the greatest return for our our fridge buying requirements in more shareholders.
We have a well developed detailhas led to a dramatic reduction in risk-management process detailed on pages thecomplexity of required speci cations, 16 and 17 for identifying, monitoring and allowing the introduction of more competitive managing the principal risks we face.
tendering and access to greater scale economies.
Equally, in Africa a project to The recent directors review reveals little substitute the traditional steel beer can with signi cant change in the risks we face a more contemporary aluminium can, has seepages 63 and 64.
We have, however, resulted in a lighter, more environmentally stepped up our actions to mitigate risk sustainable product, which has removed insome areas.
The risk of changing approximately 10,000 tons of raw material consumer preferences is addressed in from our supply chain.
ourcontinuing efforts to build and enhance our commercial capabilities to respond to SABMiller Procurement now manages changing consumer tastes and behaviours.
approximately a third of SABMillers global The management activities in Australia procurement expenditure, primarily on haveensured that the integration project brewing and packaging materials.
Our isrunning ahead of schedule.
intention is to increase this level to 50% intheforthcoming financial year and to Looking ahead some80% over the medium term.
Looking ahead to the rest of the current financial year, I am immensely proud to have People as our competitive advantage the opportunity to lead such an exceptional As Chief Operating Of cer through much senior management team and to carry ofthis financial year, I have had the privilege forward the inspiring story of SABMillers to meet a wider cross-section of the growth and development.
Theenthusiasm, commitment, energy and Trading conditions are expected to be determination I have encountered at all levels broadly unchanged, affording opportunities of the business has certainly reinforced my to grow our categories further, particularly view that our people represent an enduring indeveloping markets.
We will continue to advantage to our business.
We now have develop and differentiate our beer and soft amore experienced, mobile, mixed-gender drinks brand portfolios, leveraging local and multi-cultural talent pool to draw on than insights to bring the right products to each ever before, and, given the globally integrated market and capture value.
We will make price way in which we expect to compete in the increases selectively.
Unit input costs are future, this is a critical resource.
expected to rise in low to mid single digits inconstant currency terms.
Focus will be Our talent advantage is ably illustrated by maintained on cost effectiveness, including thefact that the top 10 performing breweries continued synergy delivery in Australia and in the SABMiller group are now all in Latin expanding the scope of globally-managed America, an achievement exempli ed by procurement.
Cash generation will remain a Industrias La Constancia in El Salvador which priority.
Targeted investments in production won our inaugural 2012 SABMiller Best capacity, marketing and sales capability will Brewery Award.
The progress made by our continue in order to drive growth.
breweries in Latin America on issues such asef ciency, quality, water usage, carbon emissions and waste is testament less to technology than it is to the determination and Alan Clark professionalism of our people.
Across Latin Chief Executive America, our employees have demonstrated a huge thirst for knowledge and a desire to improve and accept challenges.
The insights from the region are now being reapplied across the group.
