Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement 2013 has brought significant challenges, contract issues impacted the second half of Ed Casey, Acting Group Chief in particular from certain contract issues with the year, whilst we worked to regain eligibility Executive, said: We have been the UK Ministry of Justice.
Organic revenue for new UK Central Government contract through a difficult year and there growth was 5.9%, driven principally from awards.
Good progress continued to be made remains much to be done to contract awards in the previous year.
Profitability on extending existing contracts in areas such declined due to less work with UK Central as environmental services, non-clinical health ensure the agreed programme of Government and fewer wins in the BPO market.
operations and defence training and support.
corporate renewal is successfully Net exceptional charges, reflecting principally implemented.
However, the work the Electronic Monitoring settlement, totalled In the Americas division revenue held steady, we have completed and the 90.5m, with other indirect costs and charges a positive outcome given the third year of a related to the effects the UK Government declining and uncertain US federal contracting undertakings we have made reviews had on the business estimated by market, driven by government budget and demonstrate our commitment management at 21.0m.
Adjusted EPS, before funding issues.
Momentum was achieved to achieving this.
these exceptional charges and costs, were in the second half of the year, through the 39.53p, a decline of 2.1% at constant currency.
start of major new contracts in healthcare The events of 2013 absorbed Free cash flow also declined in the year.
eligibility processing and state government managements focus and, The dividend payment is increasing, reflecting transportation support.
our ongoing transition to a higher payout ratio.
therefore, interrupted the normal The Group maintains a robust financing position.
The AMEAA division achieved organic revenue process of improving efficiency growth of 18%.
A significant proportion of and developing our business into The value of contract awards totalled 3.7bn this was due to an increased volume of work new areas.
Over the second half of in the year, with further progress made on providing immigration services in Australia.
This the strategic positioning of our portfolio.
The contract, having grown to be the largest within 2013 and until the end of January outlook for 2014 remains challenging, with lower the Group, began to see lower volume levels 2014, we were not able to be profits anticipated.
We will continue our efforts by the end of the year, following significant awarded new contracts by UK to rebuild the confidence of our UK Government changes to government policies that are Central Government, which also customer and strengthen the Group as a whole, expected to continue to reduce the size of through the comprehensive corporate renewal the contract in 2014.
Numerous new contract had an impact on the development programme.
There is ongoing demand in developments were achieved in other parts of our business in certain large and growing markets for our services, of the region, particularly the Middle East.
with a pipeline of opportunities to take the business forward.
The Global Services division, representing Our focus is clear: to ensure that Sercos BPO middle and back office skills and Organic revenue growth of 5.9% capabilities, achieved organic revenue growth the Group has stable operations, for the Group of 5% in 2013.
After a strong first half, which appropriate operational controls Adjusted revenue from ongoing activities included the first year of operation of previous and differentiated capabilities, to was 5.1bn, a growth of 7.8% at constant new relationships such as Shop Direct and make the most of the breadth of currency.
Excluding incremental revenue from AEGON UK, the second half saw performance acquisitions, our portfolio across multiple weaken.
There was a lower level of work with UK our offering across frontline and markets and varied conditions delivered Central Government customers and fewer major middle and back office services, organic revenue growth of 5.9%.
private sector bids were won than in 2012. and our referenceability from one country to another.
I am confident In the UK & Europe division, organic revenue Reduced profit and cash generation growth was 3% in 2013.
This was driven by the Adjusted operating profit from ongoing activities that these attributes will enable additional revenue in the first half from previous was 285.4m, representing a 2.3% decline Sercos return to growth, in what new contracts in their initial year of operation, at constant currency and a margin decline to remain fundamentally attractive including community healthcare in Suffolk, the 5.6% compared to 6.3% in 2012.
The principal service markets around the world.
Northern Isles ferry services in Scotland, and drivers of the margin reduction included: asylum applicant accommodation and transport increased investment in contract bidding and services in North West England and Scotland & new market development activity in the Global Northern Ireland.
The Electronic Monitoring EM Services division: reduced discretionary and and Prisoner Escort & Custody Services PECS ad hoc project work and the general challenge We operate the national network of immigration centres for the Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection.
18 Strategic Report Serco faced in progressing UK contract awards the Electronic Monitoring contract, as well Earnings, cash flow, financing and related over the latter part of the year: and other as the direct one-off costs regarding the matters are described fully in the Finance margin mix effects, such as lower margins on UK Central Government audits and reviews, Review on pages 42 to 51. initial stages of new contracts or from related and the development of Sercos corporate operational issues, and the start of the new renewal programme.
In addition, there were Increased total dividend for the year five-year pricing period at the Atomic Weapons an estimated 21.0m of other related costs.
and robust financing position Establishment AWE.
The Board has proposed an increase of 4.5% to Group free cash flow declined to 84.8m 10.55p in the total dividend for the year, holding Adjusted profit before tax was 254.4m and compared with 181.2m in the previous year.
the 2013 final dividend at last years 7.45p.
Adjusted earnings per share were 39.53p, There was an anticipated incremental working This reflects our ongoing transition to a higher declining by 3.6% and 2.1% respectively capital investment in BPO activities and lower payout ratio.
Based on Adjusted basic earnings at constant currency.
There was a per share of 39.53p, the dividend represents greater adverse timing impact that reduced a payout of 27% 2012: 24%, or dividend cover The Group incurred a net exceptional charge cash flows on certain contracts, including some of 3.75x 2012: 4.11x.
The Board set out in of 90.5m in the year.
This reflected principally delays to customer payments and some timing 2013 the intention to move to dividend cover the settlement reached with the UK Ministry differences of cash costs incurred compared of 2.5-3x over time, beyond which point it would of Justice in respect of the issues arising on to our contractual customer invoicing profile.
expect to revert to increasing the total dividend Ed Casey Acting Group Chief Executive 19 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement Environmental services for various UK City of Colorado Springs fleet management Continued councils 100m over four-to-eight year terms and maintenance services US$35m over five years Non-clinical support services for Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust 40m over three years Dubai Metro operation and maintenance 355m over five years Multi-engine pilot training at RAF Cranwell 36m over five years Australian immigration detention services volume-related value over six months Parking enforcement services for London borough councils 30m over five years Hong Kong road transportation management, operation and maintenance each year in line with the increase in underlying European Space Agency operational 80m over six years earnings.
The final dividend will be paid, subject IT support for satellite infrastructure to shareholder approval, on 14 May 2014 to 30m over five years Facilities management services in the United shareholders on the register on 14 March 2014.
Arab Emirates 30m over six years Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Serco also maintains sufficient and suitable Dstl procurement services 15-25m over Iraq air traffic control services, training and financing strength and funding arrangements for seven years support 24m over 18 months anticipated corporate purposes.
Adjusted total net debt has increased from 581m to 701m, Barclays Cycle Hire phase 3 expansion Tramway operation and maintenance in principally as a result of the cash payments in London 15m over three years Dubai 18m over five years related to the exceptional charges.
The Groups financial leverage ratio remains, however, European Parliament telephony and Middle East logistics and base support for suitably below our credit facility financial communication equipment support the Australian Defence Force 18m over covenants.
17m over six years one year Further progress on contract awards Pre-deployment training for the UKs Ministry Healthcare support services in Abu Dhabi and strategic positioning of Defence 10m over one year 5m over three years Contract awards in 2013 totalled 3.7bn, representing signed contracts valued at 3.5bn US healthcare eligibility processing support Procurement, finance and accounting and preferred bidder appointments of a further excluding optional tasks, US$600m over services for an NHS Hospital Trust 0.2bn.
Our order book stood at 17.1bn at five years 112m over four years 31 December 2013 19.1bn at 31 December 2012.
Wins included smaller and medium-sized Driver examination services in Ontario, UK Central Government BPO services awards which are important to growth, as well Canada C$500m over ten years including Child Maintenance Group as significant rebids, extensions, expansions 100m over three years and new contracts.
Of the total contract award Virginia Department of Transportation value, approximately 40% reflected services VDOT operational services US$355m over Customer management services for UK leading newly contracted with Serco, with approximately six years high street retailer 50m over ten years 60% being rebids or extensions.
US IDIQ task orders across areas including Public sector shared services for the United Notable contract awards, along with IT systems and services, human capital Arab Emirates 24m over four years approximate total value and contract length management, engineering support, logistics where appropriate, included: and programme management totalling over Citizen contact services and ICT support for US$180m UK councils totalling 20m over five years Build and operate additional capacity at HMP Thameside 120m over 22 years Systems engineering and technical BPO services for Indian banking, energy assistance for US intelligence community and telecom customers totalling 20m Operation of the Docklands Light Railway US$40m over five years over three years in London 100m over 18 months During 2013, we delivered the expansion of Barclays Cycle Hire to western boroughs of London.
20 Strategic Report More details of some of these awards are in expected to fully offset the attrition, with this assumed incremental revenue contribution the Divisional Reviews, with further information in part a consequence of the issues faced in from successful outcomes of current bid and other smaller and medium-sized awards the latter part of 2013.
Compared to 5.1bn of Adjusted described in the contract news updates and factor is that following recent immigration policy revenue from ongoing activities in 2013, announcements on www.
changes, lower volumes of work in Australia are for 2014 we anticipate 4.7-4.9bn at anticipated to reduce Group revenue further: constant currency.
New contract awards in the Americas our operations which grew to over 450m division are broadening our portfolio in this of revenue in 2013 could reduce up to 50%, Our internal forecasts for 2014 also imply region.
We successfully leveraged Sercos though the nature of this work makes it difficult a further reduction in the Groups Adjusted global capabilities to achieve growth in the to forecast.
These factors are each described operating margin of 50-100 basis points.
This transportation market: the VDOT contract more fully in the Divisional Reviews.
takes into account the impact on the average deepens our credentials further and the margin of the above-mentioned revenue factors, successful rebid of driver examination services Sercos revenue visibility from its order book together with the ongoing incremental cost in Canada strengthens our managed service as at the start of this year was 77% for 2014 of corporate renewal programme delivery, capability.
The award by the United States and 52% for 2015.
This reflects the progress estimated at approximately 10m.
Department of Health and Human Services made during 2013 in securing rebids and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services extensions, as well as the contribution of new Based on the above, the Groups Adjusted CMS, where Serco is providing eligibility wins.
Recurring task orders, project work and operating profit in 2014 would be approximately processing support for the new federallyadditional services for existing customers 220-250m at constant currency.
This compares facilitated marketplace, is a significant typically add a further 5-10% to the Groups total to 285.4m Adjusted operating profit from development for our involvement in visibility in individual years.
There is additional ongoing activities for 2013.
US healthcare and expands our customer revenue that can be secured through known reach in an attractive market.
near-term extension and rebid processes, Adjusted net finance costs are anticipated to be amounting to 8% of anticipated Group revenue approximately 40m.
The Adjusted effective tax Our proactive portfolio management involves in 2014 and 19% in 2015.
Major contracts due rate and weighted average number of shares an ongoing assessment of operations against for extension or rebid, with their approximate are also expected to be broadly unchanged.
their fit to the Groups strategy.
This has contribution to Group revenue in 2013 and This would result in Adjusted EPS of 28-33p resulted in further disposals principally our existing contract end date, are as follows: at constant currency.
As previously announced, UK occupational health and UK transport a restructuring charge estimated at 10-15m maintenance and technology businesses Australian immigration detention services will be incurred in 2014 to implement further which had become non-core to Sercos future 9%, December 2014 reductions in headcount and related costs, development in the health and transportation and one-off costs to implement the corporate markets.
While remaining primarily focused on Northern Rail franchise in the UK, operated renewal programme are estimated at 15m.
organic growth, we would consider potential in partnership with Abellio 6%, April 2014 infill acquisitions that bring additional skills, Our constant currency forecasts assume the capabilities or market access to enhance the Defence garrison support services in average exchange rates in 2013 prevail through portfolio.
We will also continue to evaluate the Australia, operated in partnership with 2014.
The Group has approximately half of its potential for further non-core disposals.
Sodexo 2%, June 2014 revenue in non-sterling currencies, therefore if the sterling average rate were stronger in 2014 Challenging near-term outlook Operation of the Docklands Light Railway then the Groups results in reported currency As previously disclosed, our business plans in London 2%, September 2014 terms would reduce, and vice versa.
reflect specific challenges that lead us to expect a further reduction in profits in 2014.
At the Systems engineering and technical Free cash flow in 2014 is anticipated to be same time, we are working to secure Sercos assistance contracts for a US intelligence higher than 2013, reflecting lower working position in large and growing markets, to agency 1%, 2014 capital investment in BPO activity and some strengthen our performance in the longer term.
reversal of the adverse timing impacts Sercos internal forecasts for 2014 imply a experienced in 2013.
Net debt at the end of the In 2014, the level of contract attrition will mid-single digit percentage decline in terms of year is expected to be broadly unchanged from have a greater impact than the Group has Group organic revenue.
This takes into account that at the end of 2013.
The Group anticipates faced in the past.
The incremental revenue the above factors, including assumed success that sufficient financing headroom would contribution from new contract awards is not in securing rebids and extensions, as well as be maintained.
From left: With our partner Abellio, we run Northern Rail, the UKs largest train franchise.
In Hong Kong, we are market leader in managing, operating and maintaining road tunnels, bridges and related tollway infrastructure.
21 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement earned on the contract, interest and the UK We are tracking a total opportunity pipeline Continued Governments costs of the audits and reviews.
Versus a year ago, the reduction from approximately 31bn Thirdly, Serco has developed and is now in the reflects where we have won, lost or taken the process of implementing the comprehensive decision to withdraw from bidding.
Over the programme of corporate renewal that we next two years, our pipeline of new bids, which outlined in our announcement in January excludes the value of rebids and potential 2014, to ensure consistency of behaviours and extensions, has an estimated total value strengthen operations across the Group.
Our of 12bn, or aggregate annual revenue of plan was assessed externally by an Oversight approximately 1.4bn.
This near-term pipeline Group of Government non-executive directors, consists of approximately 40 opportunities with independent advisers appointed by the that each have anticipated annual revenue of Securing Sercos position in large Government to review our progress against at least 10m and are at a relatively advanced and growing markets agreed milestones.
In January 2014, a positive stage of tendering.
Described in more detail The focus of 2014 will be to take the actions assessment was provided on our programme, in the Divisional Reviews, examples of notable necessary to return the business to longer term confirming Sercos consideration on an equal opportunities include those for: growth in revenue and profitability.
Whilst Serco basis to other suppliers for current Central has strong foundations in its breadth of proven Government contract awards.
UK Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO capabilities across frontline, middle and back office services, its long history of delivering A stronger Serco will be positioned to benefit UK Magnox nuclear site excellent service and its geographical reach, from the ongoing demand for efficient, high decommissioning activities there is much to do in 2014.
We must stabilise quality and innovative service provision, from those UK operations impacted by the events of public and private sector customers around UK transport operations, such as the 2013, implement the plan of corporate renewal, the world.
In each of our major markets the Caledonian Sleeper rail service and re-establish our momentum within our markets, UK, the US and the countries in which we Clyde & Hebrides ferry services particularly in the UK and the private sector, operate within the AMEAA region there is and ensure we continue to build differentiated substantial spend by governments that is UK military air traffic management capabilities that will secure the Groups future expected to continue to generate long-term support services progress in large and growing markets.
growth in each of our main areas of service provision: Transport: Defence: Home Affairs UK NHS trust integrated facilities Our various public service operations for UK including justice, borders and welfare services : management Government make it collectively our single Health: and other areas of integrated facilities largest customer, with 2013 and 2014 involving management.
Our latest assessment of the total UK local council environmental substantial effort to rebuild confidence in addressable market spend in these areas is services opportunities Serco.
There have been three main areas of equivalent to over 150bn of annual spend.
Firstly, we cooperated fully with the US Navy systems and engineering services detailed independent forensic audit of the EM In overall terms, total government expenditure contract, the separate audits of our other MoJ that has been outsourced to date as service US Patent & Trademark Office contracts and the Cabinet Offices wider review contracts is estimated at 10-20%, with policy citizen services across our other major UK Central Government development suggesting that governments contracts.
Beyond the EM and PECS issues will continue to expand this proportion.
In US Department of State passport services that had previously been identified, no further developed economies, the primary driver material issues were raised and the audits and remains fiscal pressure on government US state transportation operations reviews were, therefore, concluded satisfactorily spending, while the established presence that by the end of 2013.
Serco also has in developing economies adds Australia new-build prison in Victoria further opportunity, given the likely continued Secondly, Serco agreed a settlement with the higher growth in demand for new or significantly Sydney North West Rail link and light rail MoJ in respect of the issues arising on the EM improved services for citizens.
Meanwhile, the opportunities in the region contract.
The settlement reflected the difference global BPO market is both large and continues in interpretation regarding billing arrangements to grow, and Serco will look to further develop Middle East air navigation and other for the EM contract since 2005, together its strategic positioning with both private sector transport systems operation with a repayment of an element of past profit and public sector customers in this market.
We run lifeline passenger and freight ferry services to the Northern Isles in Scotland.
22 Strategic Report Private sector customer contact, account management and multi-channel support services bids Public sector citizen contact and other BPO support Sercos portfolio of operations and opportunities around the world continues to provide elements of both resilience and future growth potential.
Whilst the Group has a challenging near-term outlook, and successful delivery of corporate renewal is required, our position should be restored to one of strength in what remain large and growing markets.
There exists a balance of risks and opportunities, but the Board is confident in the potential for Sercos long-term growth.
While we will strategically review our involvement in certain markets, and continue our proactive portfolio management, the Groups strategy remains to operate a strong and diverse contract portfolio, reducing our exposure to market fluctuations, enabling us to select the best opportunities where they arise and allowing us to transfer expertise and insight across sectors and geographies.
Ed Casey Acting Group Chief Executive From left: We are a major supplier of support services to UK hospitals.
The Middle East is home to some of Sercos longest standing air traffic control contracts.
