Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 Chief Executives review The world is changing for water companiesand Severn Trent leads thewayin shaping that change.
Wearecontinually improving our performance, improving our customer mer service and positioning the groupforsustainable growth.
Tony Wray, Chief Executive See our lm at www.
com focusonwater Ofwat is considering important changes to the way Delivering the future of water it regulates, as it prepares for the next price review The UK water industry faces significant challenges.
Notable differences from the We need to deal with the real impact of climate currentregime include separate controls for the change and the increasing frequency of water wholesale part of the business the networks and shortages and ooding.
We need to access and use treatment plants and the retail element, which water and environmental resources more efficiently.
This will increase We need to keep improving customer service and focus ondelivering the best customer service at customer choice whilst keeping our bills affordable lowestcost, and create more choice for for our customers.
We need to maintain the non-household customers.
significant investments that are required to ensure that our networks can deliver the essential water There will be greater emphasis on achieving and waste water services.
And, whilst keeping bills objectives that companies set in consultation with as low as we can for our customers, we need to their customers, helping them to innovate and generate sustainable returns for our investors.
Companies will be able to choose larger incentives for outperformance, at the Proposals from the UK Government and Ofwat will risk of bigger penalties if they fall short.
Also our help us respond to these challenges.
The changes customers and other stakeholders now have a are evolutionary, but together they add up to the much bigger role in inuencing our next five year largest shift in the industrys rules since privatisation.
Further details of our stakeholder engagement The Water Bill will allow more competition for and the role of the Water Forum are provided on non-household customers, greater upstream pages 18 and 20. competition water trading in particular and Severn Trent welcomes these changes.
Weve been increase the scope for mergers and acquisitions, active in the debate about the future of water and which should eventually lead to a more efficient were pleased that the changes are aligned with our industry structure.
Thats allowed us to prepare for these changes, through a strategy that creates opportunities to leverage our core skills.
08 Overview Chief Executives review Our strategy Sustainable Strategy aim Highlights 2013 Key measures F Our regulated business met its leakage Delivering value for our customers 441 Ml d 4.19 target, reduced interruptions to supply andinvestors.
andprotected more homes from Leakage megalitres Customer written sewerooding.
per day complaints per 1,000 properties STW 2012: 464 F We maintained the lowest average bills for 2012: 4.88 water and sewage combined in England and Wales.
F Our non-regulated business delivered topline growth, focused its operations andis well positioned for the future.
F We continued to grow our dividend.
F Our Focus on Water strategy provides value for money for our customers and long term sustainable growth for our investors.
F We achieved our best ever health and F 0.2 Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs Responsible leadership, protecting the safety performance.
worked 2012: 0.3. environment, thinking long term and F We continued to invest in our sector F We generate just under a quarter of the setting high standards in everything leading renewable energy operation.
electricity needed by our regulated wedo.
F We made further progress with our catchment management programme.
F We support the direction of the Water Bill, which is expected to become law later F We continued to inuence the regulatory this year.
debate about the future of our industry, through a series of publications.
F We remained prudently nanced and Sustainable nancing, ensuring we have 731.2m 58.4% maintained our strong credit rating.
a strong and exible balance sheet.
F We successfully renanced 500 million Cash generated from Net Debt RCV Gearing operations of our debt and issued our first retail bond 2012: 56.0% 2012: 725.9m drawing 75 million from new investors.
Growth Strategy aim Highlights 2013 Key measures F We continued to make good progress Growing Severn Trent Water in the UK 3.9% with our preparations for PR14.
through investment in our networks F We invested 555 million in our RCV growth andservices.
2012: 4.0% F We increased our regulatory capital valueby 275 million.
F We created a new venture with F First Milk, the first business customer Positioning Severn Trent to capitalise Costaintocompete for large user toswitch water supplier.
F Input lessons from the first multi-site, regulatory framework.
F We strengthened Severn Trent fide Nora Deploying Severn Trent Services business byacquiring certain product linesfrom 113.4m into new markets.
Chlorine Engineers Corp, giving us an Water Purication turnover opportunity for future growth in Japan.
2012: 98m F We invested in further developing Developing new treatment technologies.
BALPURE and continued to grow 4.6m itssales.
New commercial orders Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Overview Chief Executives review A strategy to deliver the future of water Business performance review Our Focus on Water strategy, with the goal of The group delivered a good financial performance creating sustainable growth through our focus on during the year, despite challenging conditions in water and waste water services in the UK and key some markets.
This underpins our dividend promise, international markets, drives everything that we do.
which is to grow our dividend by 3% more than the This strategy recognises that the boundary between retail price index up to 2014 15. our regulated and non-regulated activities is moving We also maintained our financial stability, by and that in future, we will generate returns from a continuing to renance our existing debt and issuing broader range of operations across the regulated new debt to support our investment programme.
As one of the UKs biggest This included our first ever retail bond, which raised water and waste water companies, Severn Trent is 75 million.
Regulated focused on continuous improvement Our focus on sustainable growth meansthat we Our customers benefited for the fourth year running balance the needs of our customers, our people, from the lowest average bills for water and theenvironment and investors.
Achieving this sewerage combined in England and Wales.
Whilst balance leads directly to good financial performance prices increased they were below the industry and delivers value for our customers and investors average.
We continued to supply customers with today and in the longerterm.
excellent drinking water and, despite the drought We recognise that economic conditions are tough atthe start of the year, we once again avoided a and that our customers have seen their incomes hosepipe ban.
While prices will inevitably rise because of Our UK regulated business, Severn Trent Water, the ongoing need for investment, were determined continued to improve its operational and to keep them as low as we can and deliver value for environmental performance.
This means further improving our service, along with effective procurement and capital protecting customers from the effects of drought delivery, help us to be more efficient.
In this and oods and providing them with water thats Regulatory Period we are re-investing 150 million good to drink and always available.
ofour efficiency gains into our plant and networks Protecting the environment is also key because we toimprove services for our customers further.
and our customers depend on it to provide the This investment contributed to our ongoing resources we need.
We cut leakage to a efficient investment allows us to deliver sustainable 20year low and beat our target.
Underlying levels returns for our shareholders.
Our strategy is to ofinterruptions to supply also fell, with our Ofwat remain focused on water and waste water services.
measure improving, although a handful of burst Our people are central to our future.
We work hard mains which affected numerous customers meant to make sure they have the skills and tools they that we didnt meet our internal target.
Wefurther need, and are motivated to continually improve our reduced pollution incidents, while compliance at our service to customers.
waste water treatment works reached a new record high, contributing to improving river water quality.
With significant changes in the sector approaching, we keep our strategy under constant review.
This During the year, we delivered the outputs that includes having open and constructive relationships Ofwatrequired from us.
We were pleased to see with key stakeholders, such as customer thatrecent investment in the ood defences at representatives, our economic and environmental theMythe Water Treatment Works proved their regulators and our investors, so we understand what worth as the plant withstood exceptionally heavy they expect from us.
We then formally review our rains and ooding.
We also reduced the number strategy each year, involving both the Executive ofhomes at risk of sewer ooding and there are Committee and theboard, so it remains relevant, nowfewer properties on the at-risk register than balanced and sufciently forward looking.
In previous years, weve identied customer service as an area where we would like to improve.
Our Our focus on sustainable customer experience programme is changing the way we think about how we interact with our growth meansthat we customers, which has led to pleasing improvements in our customer service scores, as measured by balance the needs of our Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism SIM.
customers, our people, the environment and investors.
10 Overview Chief Executives review This contributed to a customer satisfaction level of People and culture 4.36 out of 5 in our SIM quantitative survey, as well The performance weve delivered this year shows as falling levels of complaints.
However, we know we the quality of our people and their desire to do an have much further to go and we are not complacent.
I would like to thank them for This includes resolving more of our customers issues everything they have done.
to their satisfaction on first point of contact and We have talented and committed people throughout continuing to invest in our people, to help them form the group.
Together, they have a wide breadth of a better appreciation of our customers needs and expertise, from hydrologists and engineers to concerns when they have to contact us.
customer service experts and technologists.
Our combined SIM score for 2012 13 was 78.1 Theyapply these skills to our common mission, against 69.9 in 2011 12.
This represents a 12% delivering high standards and the lowest possible yearon year improvement and were the most charges for customers, with great people.
improved water and waste water company.
Weve created a culture of continuous improvement that sustains our desire to do better.
This culture is Non-regulated driving new markets in key.
While we have a sophisticated set of tools which theUKandoverseas combine behavioural science and lean management We improved our operational and financial to help us improve the way we work, its the culture, performance in our non-regulated business.
values and attitude of our people that make those Likeforlike revenue in Severn Trent Services grew tools effective and drive us forward, every day.
by5.3% and we maintained underlying profits afterinvesting furtherin business development.
Looking forward We strengthened our Severn Trent fide Nora business Severn Trent is well positioned as the UK industry by acquiring some electrochlorination technologies enters the next phase of development.
We have from Chlorine Engineers Corp for 1.3 million.
This accepted Ofwats proposed licence modications gives Severn Trent fide Nora an opportunity for future and are aligned to the agenda for regulatory reform growth in Japan.
OurOperating Services business and the Water Bill, both of which we continue to won several new contracts in the US, including help shape.
21from SouthWest Water Company as they exited Our preparations for PR14 are progressing well.
contract operations in the Texas Municipal Utility Customers are at the heart of our planning, through District.
We recently agreed to acquire service the widespread engagement weve already contracts with 10 municipalities and three private conducted and through our customer challenge entities in California which will provide us with a base panel, the Water Forum.
Further details are provided for growth in the Western US.
We reorganised our on pages 18 and 20. products business to create a regional structure, which will bring it closer to its customers and reduce Regulatory and political support for water trading is costs by sourcing and assembling more locally.
growing and companies are likely to be incentivised Wealso sharpened our focus by disposing of the to trade in the future.
Severn Trent has an ongoing metering and analytical services businesses.
dialogue with neighbouring companies and we are Disposal of our analytical services business also well placed to benefit from more effective use of the satisfied an undertaking made to Ofwat who countrys water resources.
havenow closed the section 26 investigation into Looking further ahead, companies will have to this market.
The utilities In the UK, were driving forward retail competition sector in the UK will need to nd billions of pounds with the UKs first retail switch when we signed for investment and it isnt certain that all of this can major dairy First Milk as a customer, including sites be done through debt.
Equity is therefore required to inEngland, Scotland and Wales.
play a part, which means companies will have to be able to earn an appropriate return to attract that We also continue to leverage our sector leading funding.
We published important discussion papers position in renewable and green energy.
For the on this subject during the year.
second successive year, we generated around one In summary, Severn Trent is operating from a great quarter of the electricity needed by our UK regulated base.
We have the right people doing the right things businesses.
We lead the UK in anaerobic digestion and delivering the right outcomes.
Our markets technology and are developing plans to expand into around the world need clean water and waste water the emerging UK opportunity from food waste services, and we have the right focus to prosper.
During the year, we also extended our crop digestion plant in Nottinghamshire and started construction of the first of three large wind turbines.
Tony Wray Chief Executive Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Overview Today Were getting it right first timefor customers Weve introduced new ways of working so we fix 80% of bursts on customers properties, that are eligible under our freerepair scheme, after one call to us and with one visit.
We put ourselves in our customers shoes to understand their experience.
We mapped out our processes from when our customer first contacts us to resolving the job and we reviewed how we kept our customers informed.
We also stoodin our employees shoes and looked at the training weprovided and the systems they used.
The result is a redesigned training programme for our teams, improved collaboration between field and call centre colleagues and a better customer experience of dealing with Severn Trent.
Tomorrow We continue to investinexcellent customer service We work hard to provide our customers with a service experience that is consistently reassuring and reliable, whilstdoing whatever we can to personalise the way inwhichwe deal with each individual customer query.
