Chief Executive Officers review We have enjoyed a strong year characterized by wideranging change, good results and the outstanding contributions of our people who continue to make allthedifference toour patientfocused success.
Delivering strong results In 2013, we refined and strengthened ourstrategy and created a simpler, more streamlined, integrated organization OneShire.
We also established our In-lineand Pipeline committees to further reinforce our focus on commercial excellence andinnovation.
This enabled ustosignificantly reset our cost baseand accelerate our growth.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report In my first year as Chief Executive, thecommercial execution of our In-line In-line Committee and the Pipeline Iampleased to say that Shire has products in our specialist therapeutic Committee.
The Executive Committee madeconsiderable progress, achieving areas: Rare Diseases, Neuroscience, manages the business of the Shire group.
Gastrointestinal GI and Internal Medicine.
The In-line Committee is responsible for ensuring the optimal performance of our Resetting our strategy Our single R&D organization focuses current portfolio of marketed products.
The first accomplishment was to reset ondeveloping our pipeline of innovative The Pipeline Committee is responsible for ourstrategy honing in on certain high treatments to address unmet patient overseeing and driving the development of growth areas within specialty medicine.
And we have one global business our pipeline of future products.
As a result, We are focusing even more than before development team that searches for we have been better able to enhance sales onrare, specialized conditions, building value-added therapeutics that fit our and address performance of our In-line onour strengths and on where there is the strategic focus.
products and also consider our Pipeline greatest potential to grow and make a real investments and business development The reorganization of Shire is well difference to patients lives.
Our priorities strategy on a Shire-wide basis.
advanced, with some final internal are to drive optimum performance from systemsand processes to be concluded our currently marketed In-line products Reducing costs over 2014.
We will, however, always seek forpatients today, and to build our Pipeline Significant cost savings are coming from toadopt new approaches and structures of potential products for patients in the our much simpler, more streamlined, in the pursuit of continuous improvement future through focused R&D and business integrated organization.
This has enabled and delivery of growth.
us to direct our investment into the areas that we believe will provide growth for the Changing the way we manage Reorganizing to form One Shire Company in the future.
theCompany To better support this strategic focus, We also changed the way we manage the wereorganized the Company to form a Delivering efficient growth business reconstituting the Executive simpler, more cohesive and streamlined Additionally, we have been able to Committee formerly known as the organization One Shire.
Instead of three streamline decision making, so we can Leadership Team as well as establishing separate divisions, we now have four make faster decisions with a more acute two new management committees the business units, focused exclusively on focus on customers.
In our Neuroscience Growth in One Shire Resetting reorganization our cost In-line Pipeline the short and well underway base long term In-line: Drive optimum performance from our currently marketed products Pipeline: Build our future assets through both R&D and Business Development WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 07 Chief Executive Officers review continued business unit for example, we have The Premacure AB Premacure Making the most of existing assets restructured and reinvested in our sales acquisition brought us a Phase 2 protein As well as focusing on finding and force in the US to help provide better replacement therapy for the prevention acquiring great new assets and service to physicians.
A rare and potentially blinding eye opportunities for Shire, we also work disorder that primarily affects premature hardto make the most of our existing As a result of strong product sales babies, ROP is one of the most common assets, whether by taking them into new growthand reducing costs, our bottom causes of visual loss in childhood and countries or by exploring and developing line profitability has improved, reflecting there are only symptomatic treatments new uses for them.
Take for example ourfocus on delivering efficient growth.
lisdexamfetamine dimesylate LDX, asthe active ingredient in VYVANSE, Focusing our innovation Our move into ophthalmology was ourtreatment for ADHD in the US.
We We have restructured our R&D enhanced by the acquisition of SARcode areexploring the very real potential for organization into one innovation-driven Bioscience, Inc. SARcode.
SARcode LDXto form the basis of treatment for team.
In our early stage research we brought us Lifitegrast SHP606 in Phase 3 Binge Eating Disorder BED.
Estimates havecommitted to focus on rare diseases, development for the treatment of Dry Eye suggest there are around three million where there is significant unmet need disease, a chronic and potentially patients with BED in the US.
This is a andwhere we have strong expertise.
The worldwide hugeunmet need with no currently Ourcurrent pipeline has a very promising market for Dry Eye disease was worth approved pharmacologic treatment.
rangeof late stage assets and we will 1 $1.5billion in 2012 and is growing.
We Positive results in Phase 3 BED trials seekto add to these through business announced top-line data from a Phase 3 in2013 underline the great potential of development.
By aligning our efforts and clinical trial and were pleased to meet the thisnew use for LDX.
We are currently investments on fewer areas with greater primary symptom endpoint, although the discussing the next steps with the FDA.
potential, we aim to be more efficient primary sign endpoint was not met.
This andeffective in developing our portfolio isthe first drug to show a statistically In line with our strategy to prioritize ofdistinctive and innovative products in significant improvement in the prespecified investments that have the greatest ourchosen areas of specialization.
symptoms of Dry Eye disease in a Phase 3 strategic clinical and commercial value, in clinical trial.
We will be discussing these January 2014 we sold our DERMAGRAFT Acquiring great new assets findings with the Food and Drug assets to Organogenesis, Inc.
Despite We announced four acquisitions in 2013 to Administration FDA and hope in due great efforts, we could not generate the further strengthen our Pipeline and In-line course to be able to make Lifitegrast growth in sales that we expected from portfolio.
These all fit our growth strategy available to patients with this potentially thisproduct.
As a result of this transaction, by adding to our strength in specialized debilitating condition.
we are now able to concentrate our orRare Diseases.
investment and resources on products Towards the end of the year, we With Lotus Tissue Repair, Premacure and andpipeline programs that have better announced a significant strategic SARcode Biosciences, we have exciting profitability and growth prospects.
acquisition of the high growth, rare new assets in areas of unmet patient need, disease biopharmaceutical company Continuing to change with significant growth opportunities.
If you look at the history of Shire over Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. Lotus Tissue thepast 25 years, we have always been The acquisition brought us a new growthRepair is developing the first and afast growing, adaptive company.
Shire driving product, CINRYZE, used for the currently only protein replacement therapy continues to evolve, never stands still and prophylactic treatment for Hereditary for the treatment of DEB, a devastating we strive to surprise, positively.
This ability Angiodema HAE, complementing Shires orphan disease for which there is no to embrace and incorporate change is key FIRAZYR, which is used for the treatment currently approved treatment option other to our success.
The acquisition also than palliative care.
The product is in late brought us other In-line and Pipeline preclinical development and has the assets.
In addition to enhancing both potential to be a first-in-class systemic Shires immediate and long term growth therapy for the treatment of DEB.
prospects, the acquisition is also expected to bring significant cost synergies.
1 Source: Team analysis: evaluate pharma 08 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Putting patients at the heart of our Evolving the business business This year we have undergone another A core aspect of Shire is our very real evolution in Shire.
We have increased focus on patients.
Like change, it has ourfocus on developing and marketing always been part of what makes us innovative specialty medicines to meet special.
When we try to be great in a significant unmet patient needs and we specialized area, the first thing we look at have simplified and streamlined to reset is the patient.
Are there significant unmet our cost base and accelerate our growth.
Do we truly understand We now have a sharper, stronger Shire these patients?
Do we have the product aShire that is well set for high growth orpotential product to meet their needs?
bothin the top and bottom line.
In the Putting patients at the heart of our years ahead we will focus on even more business has always been our guiding specialty, even more rare diseases, even principle.
It is why there are pictures of more targeted conditions where we can patients around our offices everywhere lead the way in developing and delivering and it is reinforced by our enduring culture treatments for patients.
of striving to be as brave as the patients we serve.
Our BRAVE culture is integral to the Investors have responded well to the way we attract and retain great people.
It changes and we were pleased with the keeps the Company fresh and engaged.
steady and significant increase in Shires And it plays a major part in our peoples share price during 2013.
We are grateful remarkable ability to continue to deliver toour shareholders for their continued results while also focusing on changing support as we continue to do everything forthe future.
we can to build the success and grow thevalue of Shire.
Our people I would like to take this opportunity Focusing on growth tothank everyone in Shire for their Where 2013 was essentially a year of tremendous contribution this year and evolution, we expect that 2014 will above fortheir amazing willingness to embrace all be a year of growth.
We now have change for the better.
asharper focus and a stronger more streamlined organization together with After almost six years at Shire, Graham ourBRAVE culture and unswerving Hetherington is stepping down as Chief commitment to patients with specialized Financial Officer CFO on March 1, 2014. conditions.
We are grateful for Grahams many contributions to the Company and wish Boosted by this firm foundation, we will him all the best.
Shires Senior Vice focus on growth through our existing President and Group Financial Controller In-line products, through our Pipeline of James Bowling will be interim CFO and potential products and through identifying weare undertaking the global search for and maximizing all the opportunities that Grahams successor.
I look forward to another excitingyear for Shire.
Dr. Flemming Ornskov Chief Executive Officer WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 09
