CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT STUART MITCHELL CHIEF EXECUTIVE LEADING POSITIONS IN CORE MARKETS INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS SIG is a leading distributor of specialist building products in Europe and has a clear e Clear strategy based on specialist model strategy.
The Group has a product and service offering of significant scale with strong positions in its three core product areas of Insulation and and product offering Energy Management, Exteriors and Interiors.
The Group plays a crucial role in the supply chain in both the new construction e Strong customer focus and ownership at market and Repairs, Maintenance and Improvement RMI market.
Each local level of these account for around half of SIGs revenues.
SIG operates from trading sites across the UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe e Provision of technical expertise and and employed 9,283 people as at 31 December 2013 excluding German roofing employees.
The Groups main countries of operation are the UK, delivery capability France and Germany, which together account for 87% of its continuing revenues.
The Group operates under a variety of trading names which are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors and countries.
While SIG is seeking to work more closely together to exploit Group synergies, its operations are managed on a country-by-country basis.
Within each country there is dedicated divisional management focusing on each market sector.
This is critical to the success of the business, ensuring that close attention is given to the specific requirements of the customer.
While the vast majority of the products SIG distributes have been manufactured by other companies, SIG fabricates certain bespoke products.
This involves adding value by cutting, reshaping or attaching two or more of its core products together.
The largest fabrication activities are the cutting and shaping of insulation, for example, Insulshell and Insulslab, and the assembly of roofing panels.
STUART MITCHELL Chief Executive 12 March 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTENTS 09 Q&A with the Chief Executive 18 Principal risks and uncertainties 10 Our markets 22 Operational review 12 Our business model 28 Financial review 14 Our strategy 35 Treasury risk management 16 Key performance indicators 38 Corporate responsibility report SIG plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts Q&A Stuart Mitchell has worked with SIG for over a year and here talks about the performance of the Company and the Groups strategic direction.
WORKING ON A SUCCESSFUL STRATEGY FOR SIG Q: WHAT IS YOUR BACKGROUND?
We outlined our strategy to the investment community at our Capital My background has been in retail operations.
I learned my trade at Markets Day in November and, as you will see from the front cover of this Sainsburys during a 22 year career, starting as a Graduate Trainee on report, were encapsulating this strategy as SIG being stronger together.
the shop floor and culminating as Managing Director.
I then moved to the As well as changing the way we work, we need to invest more in our asset multinational Hutchison Whampoa, again in retail, based in Hong Kong base and people.
During the downturn the focus, quite rightly, was to take and covering the rapidly expanding Asian market.
This has left us with some legacy issues.
We now Before joining SIG, I was Chief Executive of Wilkinson, where I grew the need to improve our fleet, branches and IT infrastructure.
This includes store network by 50%, introduced an eCommerce business, rationalised a new UK ERP system, which we are in the process of implementing.
the supply base and established an overseas sourcing business in Hong Kong.
In terms of people we are bringing in additional expertise in some areas, such as procurement and IT.
On branding we have already streamlined our UK insulations and interiors For me, SIG represents an opportunity to apply the operational skills brands so they are much simpler for our customers.
Ive gained throughout my career.
There are lots of fundamental similarities between the businesses Ive worked for and SIG.
Q: CAN YOU TELL US MORE ABOUT YOUR STRATEGIC INITIATIVES?
Weve identified four key areas to improve business performance that are all Meeting the needs of customers is key, whether they be trade or retail.
based around a common theme of working together more closely.
They are: All customers want the same thing quality, reliability and high service levels at the right price.
e procurement, which we believe has the most significant potential to improve our returns: Equally important is supply chain management and procurement which are particularly crucial when youre selling high volumes of e commercial vehicles, where we can do more to improve utilisation and relatively low-margin products.
the way we procure and manage our fleet: e branch network, where were adopting a two-phase approach, with Q: WHAT WERE YOUR FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF THE GROUP?
benefits in the short-term and long-term: and My early impressions of SIG were that it was in good shape but with areas for improvement.
The Group has a clear strategy that is taking it in the right e eCommerce, where we need to provide our customers with more direction and, through the five pillars of profit recovery, has already choice and develop common platforms within the Group.
identified many of the steps needed to make progress.
Each of these initiatives is being led by a senior operational expert and includes The Group has excellent, high quality, motivated employees, who care representatives from across our businesses.
Each workstream also has a sponsor passionately about the business, and it has sound financials, with a strong at our Group Executive Committee, to monitor progress and to ensure delivery.
balance sheet and tight cost control.
The last year has been spent putting a clear and deliverable plan into place Furthermore, based on its specialism, size and customer proposition, and we are now in the implementation phase.
Were targeting to deliver SIG has a clear competitive advantage in the marketplace.
a net annual benefit of c. 30m from this programme by 2016.
However, there are some areas that need addressing in order for us to Q: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR GROWTH?
We dont do enough together.
We act Our strategic initiatives are very much focused on improving efficiency.
more like a loose federation of individual businesses than a group.
This is right for the stage the business is at.
The first step needs to be about Finally, we need to reinvest in the business following a period of reduced capital optimising the existing business model.
investment, and our branding has been confusing, particularly in the UK.
Thats not to say we are ignoring growth.
I believe that a number of our existing businesses have significant untapped potential which can be leveraged Q: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO IMPROVE THE BUSINESS?
There are opportunities available to expand our We believe that all of these areas can be effectively addressed and were network, for example in Southern France.
already making good progress in doing so.
Were thinking about how we grow the business in the longer-term, above and beyond any benefit from market recovery, so its firmly on the agenda.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
