SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 10 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Of cers review of strategy We are successfully reshaping and rebalancing Smith & Nephew OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Dear Shareholder, For more than 150 years Smith & Nephew has supported 1 2 3 4 5 healthcare professionals as they improve the quality of life for patients.
Today we do this by providing advanced medical technologies that move clinical boundaries and reduce economic costs.
1 ESTABLISHED MARKETS We focus where we see developing needs and invest in new products and techniques to improve outcomes and expand Build upon existing strong positions, win market share access.
Through these actions we are at the forefront of fast through greater innovation and drive ef ciencies to liberate growing segments such as Sports Medicine and Advanced resources.
Wound Bioactives, are leaders in the emerging markets, and 2 EMERGING & INTERNATIONALMARKETS continue to develop in our more mature segments.
We are building a sustainable business to best support surgeons, Deliver market leadership in the Emerging & International nurses and healthcare managers in the future.
Markets bybuilding strong, direct customer relationships anddeveloping products speci cally designed for In 2013, I am pleased to report that we made signi cant these populations.
progress, expanding our product portfolio, building our platform, growing in the emerging markets and embedding a 3 INNOVATE FOR VALUE culture of perpetual ef ciency.
Accelerate our rate of innovation by investing more inresearch Accelerating innovation & development to support projects that will move clinical and In 2013, we maintained a high rate of innovation, launching cost boundaries and deliver maximum value.
major new products such as the natural-motion JOURNEY II BCS Total Knee System and, in Sports Medicine, 4 SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE HEALICOILREGENESORB, an innovative next generation OUR OPERATING MODEL bio-composite suture anchor.
We also delivered 23 new Pursue maximum ef ciency in everything we do, streamline Advanced Wound Management products, such as the our operations and manufacturing, remove duplication and DURAFIBER Ag antimicrobial dressing.
build strong global functions to support our commercial teams.
Looking ahead, we have a strong product pipeline, particularly in Trauma & Extremities and Sports Medicine.
Overall we 5 SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC GROWTH increased research & development 'R&D' investment to WITH ACQUISITIONS $231 million in 2013, representing 5.3% of revenue, and are Build our platform by acquiring complementary technologies, committed to maintaining these high levels of investment and manufacturing and distribution in the emerging markets and innovation going forward.
We were proud to be named one of complementary products or businesses in our higher Forbes Magazines Most Innovative Companies of 2013. growth segments.
We are also investing in medical education to ensure that ourcustomers continue to have access to the best training on You can read more about our strategy in action throughout our products and techniques.
This includes signi cant online the report in boxed out case studies.
resources such as Education and Evidence.
Launched in 2013, this is a powerful new e-learning platform for surgeons to access and share peer-to-peer education.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 11 so that ever more of ourbusiness comes from areasof higher growth deliver long-term bene ts.
In 2013, we maintained our Healthpoint acquisition delivers commitment to our customers, patients, employees, Our major acquisition at the end of 2012, Healthpoint communities and Shareholders.
This was again recognised Biotherapeutics, has given us a leading position in inour inclusion in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones bioactives, the fastest growing segment of Advanced Sustainability indices.
This business has out-performed ourexpectations, increasing its revenue by 47% in2013.
With Sir John Buchanan its unique portfolio, excellent sales execution andexpertise in Sir John Buchanan will step down as Chairman of the Board in product research and development, it is an outstanding April 2014.
I wish to thank Sir John for his leadership, counsel addition to Smith & Nephew.
and dedication over the past nine years.
As Chairman he has overseen a number of signi cant changes and has given me Leaders in emerging markets tremendous support in my role as Chief Executive Of cer.
We Throughout 2013, we have built upon our leading position in are con dent that in Roberto Quarta we have found another the emerging markets, generating strong revenue growth.
enhanced our platform, investing in the sales force and infrastructure in markets such as Mexico and the Middle East, Acquisition of ArthroCare Corp as well as acquiring distributors in Turkey and Brazil.
By having In February 2014, we announced our intention to acquire a direct relationship with our customers we are able to offer ArthroCare, an innovative medical devices company with a them a fuller range of products and services.
highly complementary sports medicine franchise.
Based in We see a major opportunity to create portfolios for patients in Austin, Texas, ArthroCares technology and products will the economic mid-tier across the emerging markets, and signi cantly strengthen our portfolio and we will use our launched our first products and acquired the Sushrut-Adler global footprint to drive substantial new revenue growth.
We Indian trauma business in 2013. expect to complete this acquisition in the middle of 2014 for a net cost of approximately $1.5 billion.
Perpetual ef ciency Rebalancing Smith & Nephew These strategic investments and many other initiatives have been made possible through our continued drive to be more Smith & Nephew made excellent progress in 2013, delivering ef cient, to reduce cost, and to simplify and improve our both revenue and earnings growth and generating strong cash operating model.
In 2011, we announced an initial programme ow.
I would like to thank our employees for their contribution to generate annual savings of $150 million and this will be during the year.
It was their dedication and focus that achieved largely complete by the end of 2014.
We are now a leaner these results, and importantly, are enabling us to accomplish business, and, as importantly, we are embedding a culture of our programmes to make the Group t and effective for perpetual ef ciency into our processes and future thinking.
We are successfully reshaping and rebalancing Smith & Sustainability Nephew so that even more of our business comes from areas Our mission at Smith & Nephew is to help our customers of higher growth.
In this way we willcontinue to deliver the best improve peoples lives.
I can think of nothing more intrinsic support for our customers and the greatest value for tothis mission than operating sustainably and responsibly to our Shareholders.
Yours sincerely, Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive Of cer
