Chairmans statement Smiths Group has again delivered a resilient performance, its broad diversity of markets and geographies providing both scope for business growth and security against adverse trading conditions.
Strong results from John Crane and Flex-Tek helped offset poorer trading in Smiths Medical and Smiths Detection as constraints on government budgets and sluggish or zero growth across much of the developed world continued.
Margins at Smiths Medical were also affected by the introduction of the US medical device tax and increased growth investment.
Donald Brydon, CBE Chairman The Eurozone has barely emerged from an X-ray scanner designed especially for Effective capital allocation its longest ever recession and the recovery cars, key certification for a revolutionary As the custodian of your investment, is far from robust.
While emerging checked baggage scanner, two new the Board tries to ensure capital is allocated markets continue to hold out promise, safety catheters, a unique non-stick efficiently across the Group.
Management there are rising concerns over how pharmaceutical hose designed for high must regularly decide which technologies, long their impressive growth rates can purity markets: and a fibreglass sucker products and markets should be funded be sustained.
One brighter spot is the rod ideal for operations in shale gas fields.
in the constant pursuit of maximising United States where the discovery of shareholder value.
At the same time, Such technology advances leave Smiths exploitable deposits of shale gas may turn in managing any portfolio of assets, Group well positioned to exploit the out to be the most important economic the Board is duty bound to consider whether opportunities thrown up by a sustained, development of recent years.
A plentiful we are the best owner of each business global economic recovery.
supply of cheap, domestic energy could or if more value could be generated by prove enough to revitalise the worlds Meanwhile, the world is undergoing divestment and redeploying the capital, biggest economy.
Budget and political profound socio-economic changes always subject to market conditions.
wrangles in the US, on the other hand, magnified by the revolution in global In addition, pension liabilities inflated by limit enthusiasm.
The hegemony once low interest rates, and long-running legal Smiths Group in general has performed enjoyed by western economies has actions around historic product liabilities, soundly, with John Crane in particular been steadily eroded by the impressive curtail our room for manoeuvre.
delivering impressive revenue and profit advances of developing countries.
Our task During the year we received an unsolicited growth.
However, unresolved issues in is to rise to the commercial challenges approach for Smiths Medical.
After careful contracts hampered Smiths Detections posed by this new world order.
consideration, the Board concluded that recovery and the increased investment by We are intensifying efforts to rebalance acceptable terms could not be reached.
Smiths Medical in emerging markets will our businesses towards the emerging This decision took full account of the take time to bear fruit.
markets that offer greater promise of quality and highly cash-generative nature Positioning the Group for growth expansion over the medium to long term.
of Smiths Medical, both standalone and as Innovation is at the heart of any technology Smiths Medical has bolstered its sales part of the Group as a whole.
As previously, company and Smiths invested some and marketing efforts in Brazil and parts the dominant driver of the decision was 112 million in research and development of Asia.
Smiths Detection has built a an assessment of potential value creation last year.
This was channelled particularly manufacturing plant in Malaysia to serve for shareholders.
towards the design and manufacture of the the Asia Pacific region and a major high-margin products that will spearhead new service centre has been opened future sales growth.
Product launches and by John Crane in South Korea.
milestone developments included: 20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Headline revenue Headline operating profit Up to 3,109m Up to 560m 2% 1% Read more on page 28 Read more on page 28 and 50 and in and in note 1 on page 115 note 1 on page 115 and note 3 on page 119 Statutory revenue Statutory operating profit Up to 3,109m Up to 493m 3% 21% Read more on page 28 and Read more on page 28 and 50 and in in note 1 on pages 115-118 note 1 on page 115 and note 4 on page 120 Changes to the Board Promoting a culture of self-responsibility the break-up of the Company and others Change is the one constant in any healthy is another priority and it is gratifying to who urge greater investment through business and the Board is no exception.
see the improvement in our safety record the profit and loss account to generate I am therefore delighted that someone of maintained, with last years Recordable long-term growth.
It is the Boards role the calibre of Sir George Buckley has Incident Rate the lowest in history.
to balance these interests carefully and agreed to succeed me as Chairman after Similarly, we have been able to reduce our I thank my Board colleagues for the the Annual General Meeting in November.
energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, mature and dispassionate way in which The Board and Company as a whole will waste generation and water consumption, they carry out their responsibilities.
benefit greatly from his solid engineering all key environmental metrics.
Next year we celebrate our 100th background, long US experience, We are equally committed to the ethical anniversary as a listed company.
Smiths and successful track record in running values that underpin our business has evolved a long way from Mr Smiths global, multi-industry businesses.
dealings integrity, honesty, fairness barrow at Elephant & Castle and I wish His appointment further reinforces and transparency and every individual Sir George all success in leading Smiths the directors already solid credentials employee is made fully aware of their successfully into its second century as in energy, defence, healthcare, importance through a range of mandatory a quoted company.
a small Board, it is diverse also in So for the last time, I would like to thank nationalities and gender.
My pleasure in welcoming Sir George Philip Bowman and all Smiths employees is, understandably, tinged with personal for their substantial efforts during yet People and responsibility sadness.
It could hardly be otherwise another testing year.
I also add my own Ultimately, our people and their abilities after nine fulfilling years serving you deeply felt appreciation for the friendship hold the key to the long-term prosperity as Chairman of one of the UKs best and support I have been afforded over of Smiths.
In this annual report we engineering businesses.
It truly has been a feature some of the employees who bring privilege to serve you as Chairman.
technology to life for our customers.
Public companies exist to serve the Supporting the efforts of all staff, a more interests of their customers, and by doing Donald Brydon structured and rigorous process to so well and through efficient operation Chairman assess and foster talent is now in place they seek to earn positive returns for their throughout the Group.
I am pleased that by sticking the introduction of specialist career to these principles we have generated counselling and two specific programmes returns around 50% better than those aimed at early career development and of the FTSE 100 as a whole over the past senior leadership roles respectively.
Of course, satisfying everyone Almost 90 managers currently participate is impossible.
The interests of the owners in the Horizons or Aspire2 programmes.
In our case we have shareholders who constantly urge Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 21 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Chief Executives statement This was a further year of progress for Smiths Group, with organic revenue and profit growth and strong cash generation despite challenging developed market economies and government spending constraints.
It was achieved because of our consistent focus on operational improvement and increasing investment in the drivers of future growth.
It also reflected gains from five years of reducing our dependence on government contracts and developed markets.
Such resilience would have been impossible without this realignment.
Philip Bowman Chief Executive The overall performance benefited from Trading in developed economies Strategy our strength and breadth as a diversified deteriorated during the year reflecting Our strategy is to grow shareholder engineering company, with our portfolio hospital capital budget constraints and value by: of leading-edge, technology-driven falling medical procedures weighing on Delivering revenue growth through businesses which serve a wide range infusion pump and safety sales.
It also investment in organic drivers, including of end markets and geographies.
Revenue reflects a strong comparator period which new product development and expansion growth in Smiths Detection, John Crane was boosted by the launch of the new in high-growth markets, and through and Flex-Tek offset weaknesses in Smiths Medfusion 4000 infusion pump.
Margins targeted acquisitions Medical and Smiths Interconnect.
Headline also fell with the introduction of the US operating margins improved in John Crane, medical device tax and with significantly Enhancing margins through a relentless Flex-Tek and Smiths Interconnect but increased investment to drive future drive for operational improvement across weakened at Smiths Medical, because growth through new product development all our businesses of significantly increased investment in and expanded sales and marketing Transforming Smiths into a world-class growth initiatives and the US medical capabilities in emerging markets.
Smiths organisation through smarter ways device tax, and at Smiths Detection due Detection saw good revenue growth across of working and having the best people to challenges in contract execution.
most of its market segments, driven by a strong first half.
As anticipated, sales Promoting a culture of responsibility John Crane grew revenue despite a growth flattened in the second half against in everything we do cyclical slowdown in some of its end a strong comparator period.
Profitability markets, particularly first-fit OEM Generating strong cash-flows with better fell, as mentioned above.
The performance customers in the turbo-machinery and balance sheet management improvement programme, underway general industrial areas.
However, overall since September 2011, generated cost Allocating capital rigorously across the growth rates have shown some recent savings and operational enhancements.
business through active and disciplined signs of improvement.
Margins increased Smiths Interconnect revenues fell slightly portfolio management and a targeted again to record highs because of better as growth in connectors was offset by acquisition strategy.
volumes and pricing, more than offsetting declines in power management and cost inflation and investment in growth We have continued to deliver these microwave.
Smiths Medical saw sales objectives and some recent examples are enhance margins, despite the lower decline as weakness in developed markets set out below.
However, we see further volumes.
Flex-Tek achieved strong outweighed growth in emerging markets.
opportunities for Smiths Group to improve revenue growth across the aerospace performance progressively and generate and construction markets, pushing value for shareholders.
margins to recent highs as a result of its operational gearing.
22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Headline earnings per share Dividend per share Up 0.1p Up 4% 92.7p 39.5p Read more on page 50 Read more on pages 24-25 and in note 8 on page 123 and in note 7 on page 123 Investing to accelerate revenue John Crane developed a specialty Fiberod a new service centre in Busan, South Korea, growth new products for use in upstream oil production where another example of our longer-term We believe our success and technology customers operate at high temperatures.
strategy to strengthen our presence in leadership stem from our long-standing It has also invested in a new infrared these high-growth markets.
commitment to new product development spectroscopy system that provides Operational improvements to enhance and innovation, key drivers of future customers with advanced materials margins and invest in growth revenue and margin growth as new analysis for early diagnosis of the root We are currently evaluating another phase products typically command premium cause of equipment failure.
Smiths of restructuring opportunities across all margins.
We raised company-funded Interconnect finalised a high-performance divisions.
This next phase will concentrate investment in R&D by 5% to 112m.
microwave filter that prevents mobile on three areas: site rationalisation with Customer-funded investment fell to 9m phone signals interfering with vital train a particular focus on manufacturing 2012: 10m as government reduced network communications.
footprint to support future growth while funding: this took our total spend to Investing to accelerate revenue lowering costs: organisational effectiveness 121m, or 3.9% of revenue 2012: 3.8%.
growth high-growth markets through delayering and broadening We have completed several important new We are repositioning the Group to increase management spans of control: and the product launches through this long-term our exposure to emerging markets.
upgrading of information systems investment, which has grown more than Revenues to these markets grew 14% particularly in John Crane to improve 60% over the past six years.
and they now represent 16.1% of Group decision-making and to support the next Smiths Medical gained FDA clearance revenues.
Greater investment in these stage of globalisation.
We anticipate these for CADD-Solis VIP for the US market.
high-growth markets is part of our plans will generate 50m of annualised It has already sold successfully in other medium-term strategy to improve the savings for reinvestment in sales, markets.
Smiths Detection launched growth characteristics of the Group.
marketing and new product development, several new products including the It takes time to establish a local sales and will cost around 100m over a CIP-300, a low-energy X-ray system presence through recruitment, training three-year period.
These will be charged for scanning cars and light vehicles.
In addition, there as exceptional items.
There will be some Its revolutionary XCT checked baggage are often lengthy product registration accompanying capital expenditure.
screener received certification from both processes.
At Smiths Medical, we have We expect to provide further details of the EU and US authorities during the added an additional 230 employees over John Cranes programme at the investor year.
This opens up sales opportunities in the past two years to expand our sales day in December and for the other divisions most markets around the world, although force in targeted markets such as China, at the interim results in March 2014. further field testing is required in the US.
At the same time, we have a programme to register a greater proportion of our products in these markets.
In John Crane, we opened Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 23 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Chief Executives statement Continued Statutory earnings per share Free cash-flow Employees around the world Up 39% From strong cash conversion In over 50 countries 90.7p 237m 23,250 Read more on page 50 Read more on page 50 Read more on pages 66-67 and in note 8 on page 123 and in note 26 on page 143 and in note 10 on page 128 In Smiths Detection, the performance Promoting responsibility Improving returns on capital by enhancing improvement initiative has continued to We continued to make good progress margins while operating an efficient capital make good progress with a further 9m on our safety and environmental metrics.
Overall, of savings generated in the year, bringing The recordable incident rate improved Group return on capital rose slightly to total savings to date to 24m.
We expect again in the year to a new record low.
We achieved improved returns to deliver a further 5m of savings next across all divisions except Smiths Medical We have also undertaken several financial year.
The total programme is and Smiths Detection where they declined initiatives during the year to promote our expected to generate 36m of annual as a result of lower profitability.
We built on the savings at a cost of 33m by the end of anti-bribery and corruption course that Subject to suitable market conditions, financial year 2015.
This will lower the we launched last year by updating the we manage the portfolio of businesses fixed cost base and enable the business training on international trade compliance through a combination of acquisitions to respond better to variations in demand, and competition & anti-trust.
We also that satisfy our strategic and financial while improving customer service.
recognise the growing importance of the objectives and disposals that realise Towards a world-class organisation emerging markets and the challenges of additional value for our shareholders.
This Over the past six years, we have been operating in these markets.
We built on is undertaken in the context of continuing working towards making Smiths Group the success of the global ethics forum held to manage the legacy issues of the a world-class organisation.
This is in in China last year by hosting our second actuarial deficits on the defined benefit part about having the right people and in Brazil in October 2012. pension plans and on-going historical processes.
We have progressively raised product liability litigation.
During the year, Strong cash generation and the bar in terms of fostering talent, we received an unsolicited approach for capital allocation aided by more rigorous and consistent Smiths Medical, which the Board very We experienced another year of strong assessment processes, and greater carefully considered.
After some months cash generation.
Headline operating investment in the preparation and of discussion, it proved impossible to cash of 548m represented a headline monitoring of personal development reach agreement on acceptable terms.
operating cash conversion of 98% 2012: plans.
During the year, we changed In reaching this conclusion, the Board 99%.
This more than offset the impact the leadership of John Crane and took into account the quality and potential of pension contributions and dividends, Smiths Interconnect in order to take of Smiths Medical and its highly cashreducing net debt by 47m to 744m.
both businesses into the next phase generative nature, both standalone and The Group continues to benefit from high of development.
in the context of the Group as a whole.
cash conversion and a balance sheet that has been considerably strengthened in The Board regularly reviews the structure recent years.
and efficiency of the balance sheet, taking into account the investment needs for organic growth and acquisitions as well as the funding requirements of the legacy issues of pensions and litigation.
24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Over the past six years, we have consistently Dividend present need for improved security in an increased our investment in organic The Board has a progressive dividend uncertain world.
We will continue to focus growth drivers and have invested some policy while maintaining a dividend cover on investing to grow sales, delivering 600m in bolt-on acquisitions to add of around 2.5 times.
This policy will enable further operational improvements, complementary technologies and extend us to retain sufficient cash-flow to meet while maintaining strong cash conversion our geographic reach in high-growth our legacy liabilities and finance our and improved returns.
Although this investment investment in the drivers of growth.
for the divisions are provided in the remains our priority and we continue to Business review.
The Board has recommended a final actively evaluate potential acquisitions, dividend of 27.0p per share giving a total We are currently evaluating some new we have not found opportunities that meet for the year of 39.5p, an increase of 4%.
medium-term targets by which our our acquisition and return criteria over The final and special dividends will be performance can be measured.
As a result, we have paid on 22 November to shareholders major deterioration in economic conditions, accumulated surplus cash on the balance registered at the close of business we intend to publish these targets in the sheet and net debt headline EBITDA on 25 October.
The ex-dividend date is interim results in March 2014. gearing has fallen to 1.2 times in recent 23 October.
years against our continuing mediumPhilip Bowman term target of 1.5-2.0 times.
Outlook Chief Executive Our priority is to drive operational The Groups robust balance sheet and improvements and efficiencies across record of strong cash generation is more our businesses that will fund additional than adequate to fund our immediate investment in high-growth markets and investment needs and other legacy new product development to accelerate obligations.
The Board is therefore medium-term revenue growth.
recommending a return of cash to shareholders of around 118m, in the We see significant opportunities to form of a special dividend of 30p per share.
generate value for shareholders although Looking ahead, we will continue to apply we continue to be cautious about sectors capital discipline to the search for such as defence and healthcare which are opportunities to invest for future growth subject to government funding constraints.
while funding our legacy obligations and However, we remain well placed to benefit maintaining strategic flexibility.
from growth in energy demand, the need for new fuel-efficient aircraft, increased US residential construction and the ever Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 25 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
