Strategic Report Rui fide Sousa Chairman Ed Story Chairman and Chief President and Chief Executives Statement Executive Of cer D ear Shareholders The Lideka East Marine-1 well, in the Marine XI Block offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, was also successful as it intersected Our business model is very simple: we are value focused.
We do not 50 metres of net oil pay.
The extent of this discovery is currently being approach this by setting reserve or production milestones, which may evaluated.
The potential extension of a signi cant eld discovery on a or may not add value.
We aim to deliver shareholder value by offering contiguous block and several other potentially exploitable leads clearly add an attractive and sustainable yield via annual returns whilst providing value to the Marine XI Block.
relatively low risk upside through focused exploration.
Extended testing on the TGT-10XST1 well consumed all of the contracted The Company was pleased to have successfully initiated the yield leg rig time during the year.
Consequently a number of planned development of the business model last year by returning over $200 million to wells required to test additional reservoir intervals in the producing part of shareholders during the fourth quarter.
We are also pleased to con rm our the TGT eld were deferred until 2014.
Thus the additional eld data intention to recommend a further cash return this year.
Using previous needed to validate fully the newly developed reservoir simulation model is guidance of returning 50% of free cash ow, the magnitude of the cash not yet available.
return would be approximately $100 million.
The intent is to again make this return in a manner which is tax ef cient to many shareholders and the As a consequence, we believe the sensible approach is to keep the structure and quantum is expected to be con rmed with mid-year results.
notional assessment of recoverable volumes for the eld unchanged from last year, which now includes gas, until we have more production data and On the operations front, both our Vietnam and Congo wells drilled during a fully functioning full eld simulation model.
The notional in-place 2013 were successful.
Offshore Vietnam, on the Te Giac Trang TGT eld, volumetric estimates are supported by an independent assessment by the TGT-10XST1 exploration appraisal well, which tested beyond RPS, the reservoir engineering group retained by SOCO.
expectations at over 27,600 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD, will result in adding another unmanned production platform to increase Enhancing our corporate governance was also a key achievement in 2013. productive capability from the TGT eld in the range of 15,000 to 25,000 We are very pleased to have added two extremely capable independent BOEPD when H5 comes on-stream, projected to be in the third quarter Non-Executive Directors to our Board.
Marianne Daryabegui joined the of 2015.
Board in October 2013 and Rob Gray joined in December 2013.
SOCO International plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information It is with great pride that we were able to maintain our exemplary record underway to bring H5 on-stream with an anticipated start date in the third from the health and safety aspect as we completed another year free of quarter of 2015. any lost time injuries.
The positive TGT-10XST1 well result provides an opportune reminder that TGT is a eld in early stage development.
Also, the number and complexity Financial and Operating Results of the oil bearing reservoirs across the entirety of the eld means that the forward development plan must be optimised fully to deliver maximum Group revenue for 2013 was relatively stable, dropping slightly from last recoverable oil over the eld life.
years record level of $621.6 million to $608.1 million.
This was an extremely strong result giving consideration to the necessary production Whilst the TGT eld has a structurally simple trap con guration, it curtailment from our largest producing asset, the TGT eld, when capacity comprises a complex series of more than 50 reservoirs and, to date, at the Floating Production Storage and Of oading FPSO facility was only approximately 4% of its estimated P50 Stock Tank Oil Initially In Place reduced by up to 15,000 BOEPD when a contiguous eld commenced has been produced.
The full eld development of TGT will require production into the vessel in May.
optimisation of the development programme over the next six years that will include an additional 35-45 in ll producer and injection wells, Before accounting for the non-cash impact of the Nganzi relinquishment, subject to the annual approval process in Vietnam.
Similarly, individual post-tax pro ts were similarly down slightly from $207.0 million in 2012 to reservoir optimisation also requires that the producing intervals for each $196.1 million in 2013. and every development well throughout the eld are continuously and actively managed.
Net entitlement volumes actually increased year on year on a BOEPD basis, increasing from 15,496 to 16,694, after the TGT gas sales contract was signed during 2013, thus allowing gas volumes to be included in production and reserve statistics.
Following the ful lment of the cost recoupment associated with the Groups cost carry of PetroVietnam on Key Performance Indicators Block 16-1 in 2012, the Groups entitlement volume is now equivalent to its working interest share of production.
Realised oil prices dropped $million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2011 approximately $5.00 per barrel year on year with realised prices in 2013 averaging approximately $113 per barrel of crude oil sold.
Revenue 608.1 621.6 234.1 Gross pro t 439.0 460.5 166.3 Cash generated from operations came in at $314.4 million in 2013, down Net cash from operating activities 314.4 334.8 90.2 from $334.8 million in 2012, re ecting lower realised oil prices that were Cash, cash equivalents and liquid 210.0 258.5 160.1 partially offset by higher volumes sold.
Capital expenditures were down investments from $109.9 million in 2012 to $99.1 million in 2013.
On 16 May 2013, the outstanding convertible bonds were purchased at par value and Net assets 1,080.8 1,176.6 1,098.1 cancelled.
On 14 October 2013, SOCO completed a return of Total shareholder return % 21.7 22.3 20.8 $213.3 million to shareholders 133 million, after receiving shareholder See Additional Information Key Performance Indicators on page 99 for all KPIs employed approval at a general meeting on 25 September 2013.
The Group ended and their fide nitions the year with cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments of $210.0 million, dropping only $48.5 million despite the large return to shareholders and the retirement of the convertible bonds.
At year end 2013, SOCO was completely debt free.
2013 Operations Review Vietnam The TGT and Ca Ngu Vang CNV elds combined production during 2013 equalled 16,694 BOEPD net to SOCOs working interest, exceeding full-year guidance by slightly over 4%.
CNV continues to produce steadily WE SUCCESSFULLY averaging 2,059 BOEPD net to the Companys working interest during 2013, slightly down from the previous year.
During 2014, we expect to INITIATED THE increase CNVs gross production by up to 25% when we drill the CNV-7P well, which should spud in the second quarter.
YIELD LEG OF THE Production from TGT averaged 14,635 BOEPD net to the Groups working interest during 2013, as compared with 12,618 barrels of oil per day the BUSINESS MODEL previous year, which was prior to the signing of the TGT gas sales agreement.
TGT production was adversely impacted by two events, sharing of the FPSO which reduced TGT throughput by 15,000 BOEPD LAST YEAR BY and deferral of the 2013 development drilling programme due to the extended testing programme on the highly successful TGT-10XST1 RETURNING OVER exploration appraisal well which owed at a combined average maximum rate at over 27,600 BOEPD.
$200 MILLION TO The partners have approved a three rig drilling programme in Vietnam for 2014.
All three rigs are already under contract and the first, the Hercules Resilience, arrived on site on TGT on 1 March 2014.
Additional activity is SHAREHOLDERS SOCO International plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairman and Chief Executives Statement continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Revenue Gross profit Net cash from Production, operating activities net working interest $million $million $million BOEPD 621.6 16,694 608.1 14,757 460.5 439.0 334.8 314.4 234.1 5,437 166.3 90.2 13 12 11 13 12 11 13 12 11 13 12 11 SOCO International plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Africa We are negotiating final terms to contract a rig to drill what is assessed to WE ARE DELIGHTED be a relatively low risk prospect in our Marine XI Block offshore Congo Brazzaville.
This well is designed to determine whether the Litchendjili TO ADD TWO eld, previously discovered on the contiguous Marine XII Block due to come on-stream next year, extends into our acreage.
HIGHLY QUALIFIED While we maintain our focus on organic growth generating our own prospect inventory, we do not ignore other value creation opportunities.
INDEPENDENT One such opportunity was the farm-in to the Mer Profonde Sud MPS Block offshore Congo Brazzaville where we will evaluate signi cant exploration potential.
MEMBERS TO THE Following a detailed review by joint venture partners of the Nganzi Block onshore the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, it was decided not to BOARD apply to extend the exploration period.
Thus the partners relinquished the Block in the last quarter of 2013.
Although SOCO did not nd commercial reserves in the Block, it has helped the Company to develop relationships in-country that will stand it in good stead for any potential future licence applications.
On Block V, after obtaining regulatory approval from the DRC Government, obtaining pre-programme environmental and regulatory sign-off from the managers of the Virunga National Park and conducting extensive consultation with local communities, SOCO expects to commence acquiring seismic data on Lake Edward.
This is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014.
Social investment projects for the communities on Block V began in August 2013, including a mobile hospital, the launch of a disease mapping campaign and the installation of a communications mast at Nyakakoma, a community located on the shores of Lake Edward.
SOCO takes its social and environmental responsibilities very seriously.
Whilst there are some who oppose the DRC Governments decision to allow data gathering activities in Block V in the Eastern DRC, we are operating under valid contracts with the DRC Government which is fully entitled to award these contracts under both national laws and international convention.
We remain committed to ensuring that the Government is able to obtain the knowledge it needs about the natural resource potential of the region using the most sustainable methodology practicable and that industry best practice is maintained.
Corporate one new member to the Board in four of the past five years.
We point to Return of Cash to Shareholders this as a strong indication of our commitment to maintain high standards On 14 October 2013, SOCO completed a return of $213.3 million 133 of governance.
million to shareholders, after receiving shareholder approval at a general meeting on 25 September 2013.
The return of cash was structured using Marianne Daryabegui is currently the Managing Director of the Corporate an issue of B Shares and C Shares, which enabled Shareholders to elect to Finance Oil and Gas Team at BNP Paribas in Paris, France.
She has receive their return of cash proceeds as either income or capital or any extensive experience in oil and gas corporate transactions, including combination thereof on the equivalent basis of 40 pence per structured nancing and reserve based lending facilities, and has advised ordinary share.
a wide number of oil companies across the sector.
Prior to this, she worked for eight years in BNP Paribas Energy Commodities Export Project The Board of Directors Department where she headed the Commodity Structure Finance team for Further strengthening of the Board was a high priority for the year, the Middle East, North and West Africa.
Before joining BNP Paribas, motivated by the unexpected departure of Michael Johns, our Senior Marianne spent eight years at TOTAL, working amongst other activities on Independent Director, for personal health reasons and the need to add upstream acquisitions and divestments in Europe and Africa.
complementary expertise, different perspectives and strengthen board independence.
We are very appreciative of Michaels contributions during Rob Gray was a co-founder of RegEnersys, a natural resources investment his tenure on the Board and are grateful for his insight and dedication to entity, and is currently the principal of ReVysion LLP, a financial advisory the Company.
business in the natural resources sector.
Rob has been an advisor to the natural resources sector for more than 30 years, including 13 years at We are delighted to add two highly quali ed independent members to the Deutsche Bank where he was latterly a Senior Advisor having been Board.
Marianne Daryabegui was appointed in October 2013 and will Chairman of UK Investment Banking for five years and formerly Global serve as a member of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Head of Natural Resources.
Prior to joining Deutsche Bank, he was Committees.
Rob Gray was appointed in December 2013 and will serve as instrumental in establishing a number of leading institutional oil and gas the Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk and groups.
Rob continues as an industry advisor to various natural Remuneration Committees.
This means that we have introduced at least resource entities.
SOCO International plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairman and Chief Executives Statement continued WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board recognises the need Board diversity Board independence for an appropriate balance of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance critical attributes, including Board composition Code Code, all Directors are subject to annual skills, experience, diversity, independence reviews and election by shareholders independence and knowledge of the Company.
Accordingly, it Initial continually seeks, within an appointment Executive Non-Executive appropriate Board size, to manage years a balance between each important 1 Board nationalities element in its composition, including Executive representation, independence, diversity, tenure More Annual and refreshment.
rigorous independence 2 scrutiny United Kingdom Other Europe N. America review SEE PAGE 43 Board age breakdown 3 5 Key Code guidance 4 Annual reappointment Time elapsed during tenure --- 41 41-60 60 Non-Executive Directors knowledge, skills and experience Key strategic Industry City Entrepreneurial Technical Commercial Accounting, Regulatory, Banking, contacts contacts contacts skills industry industry reporting, governance finance disclosure and markets SOCO International plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information The Board takes its responsibilities with regard to succession planning will manage our portfolio and maintain capital discipline in such a manner very seriously.
Accordingly, attention is focused on attracting and retaining to ensure that we do not commit a disproportionate share of our capital strong leadership to ensure that the Company continues to be well expenditure budget to exploration drilling.
We will continue to explore positioned to deliver value for shareholders.
innovative ways to gain upside through the drill bit.
Our near term exploration drilling programme is sharply focused, with half Outlook targeting a high chance of success with a relatively low capital commitment, whilst the other half offers signi cant upside.
In 2014, we We remain committed to offering investors the opportunity for both an are concentrating on the former and final negotiations should be attractive and sustainable yield and substantial growth.
During 2014, we completed shortly for a rig for the drilling of an exploration well offshore intend to make a recommendation of a cash return to shareholders.
Using Congo Brazzaville to probe what is expected to be an extension of the previous guidance of returning 50% of 2013 free cash ow, the sum Litchendjili eld discovery made by ENI several years ago on the Marine XII would approximate $100 million.
As was the case in the 2013 cash Block.
This eld is slated to begin production in 2015.
Should drilling distribution, this return will most likely be structured as a B and C Share successfully demonstrate that the eld extends into the Marine XI Block, scheme, which will provide our UK shareholders optionality for the most unitisation could result in revenue being generated from the Block very ef cient way to accept funds.
However, going forward as we use up good early following the discovery.
tax capital, we will likely revert to a typical semi-annual dividend payment targeting a yield comparable to this years but with the intent of growing it We remain very optimistic about the exploration potential of the MPS Block annually, subject to various macro parameters.
to deliver signi cant upside and will seek to drill it as soon as practical.
The operational focus for 2014 will be on the development of the H5 fault Again, we are value driven and will continue to explore all options to block of the TGT eld.
Whilst a decision is yet to be taken with regard to maximise this goal, which could include acquisitions or divestitures subject optimal production tie-in options, we expect that the additional productive to either delivering on the value principle.
capability will be online before the end of next year.
Fabrication of an unmanned production platform for the H5 fault block will commence as soon as the of cial sanctioning of the project is received, which is anticipated to be before the end of the first quarter of this year.
Three rigs have been contracted for drilling in Vietnam.
While one will be designated for drilling further development wells on the H1, H2, H3 and H4 fault blocks in the TGT eld, another will drill the final production well on Rui fide Sousa CNV, which will allow us to access the thus far unpenetrated south west Chairman corner of the eld fractures in basement.
The third, on a short term two well contract, has arrived on location and will commence drilling from the H1 Well Head Platform in March 2014.
As stated, growth remains an important part of the SOCO story and exploration remains a cornerstone of our business model.
However, we are committed to evaluating every alternative to optimise our exposure to Ed Story upside without jeopardising a meaningful yield.
What that means is that we President and Chief Executive Of cer SOCO International plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report SOCO International plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information TGT-10XST1 WAS A SPECTACULAR SUCCESS, ONE OF THE HIGHEST FLOW RATE WELLS EVER DRILLED IN VIETNAM SOCO International plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
