Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review 2014, having been approved in the EU in Dear shareholder 2012 under the name Forxiga.
Xigduo, also At our Investor Day in March for diabetes, was approved in the EU in 2013, we setout our strategy January 2014. to Achieve Scientific Leadership, I am particularly excited about the Return to Growth and ensure progress we made with our early-stage pipeline in 2013, including the multiple AstraZeneca is a Great Place trials that are now under way in our cancer to Work.
A year on, weve built immunotherapy portfolio.
Collaborations momentum behind our strategic and acquisitions further strengthened the priorities, in particular our progress being made, including AlphaCore in cardiovascular and metabolic disease objective of achieving scientific as well as Amplimmune and Spirogen leadership, and started to deliver in oncology.
on some of the targets we have Of course, there is no innovation without risk set ourselves.
You can find more and we discontinued 15 projects during the detail about the progress being year.
This included fostamatinib where the made throughout this Annual results of clinical trials meant we decided not to proceed with regulatory filings.
Report, together with some We continue to redeploy resources to case studies indicating how convert our promising late-stage pipeline our pioneering science has into medicines that will transform patients the potential to transform lives.
lives and fund our growth platforms.
Our productivity and efficiency programmes Achieving scientific leadership are providing some of the headroom to acquired as part of the BMS acquisition Accelerating and replenishing our portfolio make those investments possible.
Nevertheless, we continue in our three core therapy areas is central to to have confidence in the commercial our mission and vital to our success.
Im Platforms for growth future of the product.
really pleased by the progress made during As the Chairman noted, our five growth 2013.
At the end of the year, we had 99 platforms delivered an incremental Overall, diabetes revenues grew globally projects in our pipeline, of which 85 were $1.2 billion of revenue in 2013.
While last year and we are stepping up our in the clinical phase of development and 14 our focus on these platforms is beginning investment and improving execution of were approved, launched or filed.
That total to bear fruit, we have more work to do if our plans to take full advantage of our included 11 new molecular entities, or they are to deliver to their full potential.
NMEs, in Phase III of development or Brilinta Brilique is a key product for In our respiratory franchise, Symbicort under regulatory review, almost double us and it continues to grow globally.
drove growth with a strong performance the number we had at the end of 2012.
However, despite encouraging progress inthe US, Japan and Emerging Markets.
Four NMEs that progressed to Phase III in the US, there are challenges that are InJapan, our second largest market, came from our existing pipeline: olaparib, still to be overcome.
growth was also helped by the performance selumetinib and moxetumomab pasudotox of Nexium.
Emerging Markets revenue Our long-term commitment to diabetes are potential cancer treatments, while growth of 8% meant we met our target was reinforced with the acquisition of benralizumab is for severe asthma.
A ofhigh single digit growth at CER, with BMSs 50% interest in our joint diabetes further two NMEs came from transactions growth in China of 19% over the year.
The acquisition, which was we undertook during the year: PT003, for completed in February 2014, included the While our revenue continues to be the treatment of COPD, came to us from rights for the development, manufacture impacted by the loss of exclusivity for key the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics and and commercialisation of the businesss brands, reducing by $2.2 billion in 2013, Epanova, a novel treatment for dyslipidaemia, global diabetes assets.
We believe that theprogress being made provides us with came from the acquisition of Omthera.
consolidating ownership of this portfolio the confidence that our 2017 revenues Alongside this, we submitted regulatory will allow us to serve the needs of people willbe broadly in line with what we achieved filings for naloxegol, for opioid-induced with diabetes better.
As a result of in 2013. constipation, in the EU and US, and sales below expectations, we incurred olaparib in the EU.
Our diabetes treatment, an impairment charge for Bydureon, Farxiga, was approved in the US in January 8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information I am pleased with the momentum we built in 2013 against our strategic priorities, particularly our objective of achieving scientific leadership.
Great place to work helping improve collaboration, as well In Simons place I am pleased to be able Our achievements are, of course, down as reducing complexity and eradicating towelcome Marc Dunoyer who joined us in tothe people who work at AstraZeneca, unnecessary cost.
June 2013 and took over as Chief Financial aswell as our partners and collaborators.
While we look Overall progress is reflected in surveys that However, I firmly believe that these efforts for permanent successors, I am grateful to have shown an increasing employee belief are more productive when we all share Ruud Dobber, who assumed the portfolio in our strategic course.
This is heartening, a common purpose.
That is why I attach strategy role, and Caroline Hempstead not least because implementation of our such great importance to the work we did who took over Lynns role.
They are part strategic priorities has created uncertainty during the year both to define our purpose of a strong SET team that continues to for many.
For my part, I will continue to as a Group who we are and the unique provide inspirational leadership as we focus work to ensure that we undertake the contribution we make as well as to define the organisation on the continued delivery necessary changes with respect for the the values that describe our fundamental of our goals.
beliefs and bring our purpose to life.
Looking ahead A great place to work needs great Over 30,000 employees registered for our As I commented at the start of my Review, leaders and we welcomed many talented culture jam, an online conversation about Iam pleased with the momentum we built individuals at all levels in 2013.
The year what it means to push the boundaries of in 2013 against our strategic priorities, also saw two of our SET members leave.
science to deliver life-changing medicines, particularly our objective of achieving Simon Lowth left us at the end of October and about what our values mean in scientific leadership.
I look forward to after nearly six years at AstraZeneca.
It was a defining moment for reporting on how our journey progresses in made a significant and lasting contribution AstraZeneca that demonstrated the 2014 as we seek to build on our successes to the business.
I will miss him and would passion our employees have for the work and realise our ambition for AstraZeneca.
like to wish him well in the next chapter they do.
Also stepping down during Alongside this, I am pleased with the the year was Lynn Tetrault, who did so progress made following our decision on health grounds.
I wish her a speedy toinvest in three strategic R&D centres, recovery to full health.
Lynn also made including the creation of a new UK-based a significant contribution throughout her centre in Cambridge.
This will bring teams long career.
Pascal Soriot together and closer to scientific partners, Chief Executive Officer AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 9
