30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Group Chief Executives report Group sales increased to 689.4 million, with organic sales growth of nearly 4%.
Ourfocus remains on creating our own growth opportunities through the implementation of our growth strategy.
Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive rates of industrial production growth that Introduction Key highlights had been progressively slowing through This is a truly exceptional Company, with Organic sales grew by nearly 3.5% the previous year.
The first half of 2013 many fundamental strengths.
The success saw a continuation of this trend but with in the steam specialties business and strong performance during recent some acceleration in growth through the and by 4% for the Watson-Marlow years, despite a challenging global second half of the year.
For the full year, economic environment, demonstrates that pumps business growth in industrial production was, overall, our strategy, robust business model and broadly the same as the prior years growth.
Operating profit increased by 11% talented organisation delivers superior value The outlook for 2014, however, is a little to 151.6 million and at constant to our shareholders.
As I take over as Group more positive.
We have a robust and resilient Chief Executive, my priority is to continue exchange rates, operating profit business model but we are not immune to leverage our strengths and build on this was ahead 10% from economic swings, which our markets solid base.
can lag by up to nine months, although our Sales in emerging markets focus remains on creating our own growth The skills and applications knowledge of expanded to 42% of Group opportunities through the implementation of our people, especially our direct sales and our growth strategy.
revenue and emerging markets service engineers, is central to our ability to provide customers with solutions to accounted for 45% of Group Market conditions remained weak across their energy efficiency, productivity, quality operating profit in 2013 most of Europe, with overall industrial and sustainability issues.
We manage the production flat year-on-year, although business for the long term and continually Group operating profit margin with recent indications of improvement in invest in widening our addressable markets, reached a record 22.0% market conditions towards the end of the expanding our market penetration and year.
Markets in North America remained extending our geographic presence, challenging and in developed markets especially into newly emerging markets.
generally, project activity was slow with lower Our focus on solution selling underpins demand for higher value, energy saving and our growth in both emerging and process efficiency improvement projects: developed markets.
routine maintenance spending by customers In recent years we have improved processes was modestly higher.
and significantly increased our investment in Emerging market conditions were research and development resources, which mixed, with stable growth in China and is central to our ability to expand the size of improvement in parts of Southeast Asia and our addressable market.
I would expect new Eastern Europe.
In Latin America, there was products to make an increasing contribution an improving trend in economic conditions to sales growth in the future.
entering 2013, which flattened in the second half.
Currency pressures in Argentina We have increased regional manufacturing erupted in early 2014, with a knock-on to enhance local availability of an unrivalled effect in a number of other emerging range of products, improving customer market currencies, creating a degree of service and supporting sales growth.
look to increase supply chain effectiveness, by optimising our global distribution network Progress in 2013 and leveraging manufacturing efficiencies.
Group sales increased by over 4% from Global environment 661.7 million to 689.4 million.
Organic sales growth was nearly 4% for the year, Global industrial production provides a repeating the growth achieved in the first reasonable indicator for the conditions in half year.
Growth was led by Asia Pacific, our markets.
We entered 2013 with very low About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 with China continuing its strong progress, where we can best leverage new product The Group operating profit margin jumped followed by Watson-Marlow.
We expect that the investment and from 20.6% to a record 22.0%.
The cost growth was achieved in EMEA, despite the improvements will generate an increasing of raw materials and components was difficult economic background, and sales contribution to future sales growth from broadly flat, reflecting subdued world in the Americas were marginally lower due new products.
metals prices plus our on-going initiatives to North America, mitigated by growth in to improve the operation of our supply In the Watson-Marlow pumps business, Latin America.
Overall, sales in emerging chain.
We fully realised the benefits from the organic sales grew 4% with a particularly markets expanded to 42% of Group revenue greater focus on price management and tough second half comparison due to from 40% in 2012.
Favourable currency margin, as well as from the restructuring several large non-repeating wastewater movements at the half year were steadily of our European sales companies that treatment and mining projects shipped in eroded by the strengthening of sterling and delivered a year-on-year cost reduction of the second half of the prior year.
There was weakness in a number of emerging market 3.5 million.
Profits rebounded from the particularly good progress in Europe where currencies, particularly in the fourth quarter low levels in the prior year in our European an increase in the direct sales channel and of 2013.
If current exchange rates prevail steam specialties manufacturing operations greater focus through further sectorisation through 2014, sales would be reduced in Europe, particularly in the UK where we of the sales teams, delivered solid growth.
by around 5% on translation into sterling achieved further efficiency improvements New products contributed strongly, with versus 2013. from the consolidated site.
We continue to the new Qdos pump making a particular invest in geographic expansion and market In the steam specialties business, organic impact.
The higher level of R&D resource penetration in emerging markets, which sales grew by nearly 3.5%.
Sales of our in Watson-Marlow has been maintained, remains a strategic priority.
traditional condensate management with innovative new products that continue products were higher with increased sales to expand the performance envelope Market outlook of traps and valves, which reflected the that increases the addressable market, We have an outstanding business solid underlying demand from the core displacing other pump types.
model and over recent years have made maintenance and operating expenditures The Group has added resource and significant and far-reaching improvements of our customers.
In general, demand intensified the search for suitable acquisition to our performance through a time of for higher value energy saving and plant candidates, focusing on expanding our great economic uncertainty.
This has been improvement projects has been soft.
addressable markets through new products achieved whilst at the same time investing Metering sales increased nicely, driven and technologies, direct market access and heavily in our manufacturing capability by the introduction of innovative and complementary businesses.
Our strong and capacity, in our R&D resources and technologically advanced products over the balance sheet and debt capacity provides processes, in our people development and past two years, with particular success in us with considerable flexibility.
in our expanding network of direct sales and EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Sales of controls service engineers.
products grew well, with progress in all We achieved a good increase in operating regions, and energy services also did well.
profit of 11% from 136.2 million to Our markets are heavily influenced by Following the exceptionally strong growth 151.6 million.
Using constant exchange the level of industrial production.
We are in heat exchange packages in 2012, the nonrates, operating profit was ahead 10%.
not immune from economic tides but repeat of several large projects meant that Following the exaggerated seasonal bias our business is resilient, having a high heat exchange package sales were down in 2012 of profits to the second half year proportion of sales drawn from customers in 2013. of 43:57, 2013 returned to a more normal maintenance and operating budgets and pattern of 45:55.
Emerging markets with less exposure to the capital cycle.
R&D in the steam specialties business accounted for 45% of Group operating Our focus is on our strategic actions to continued to benefit from the higher level profit in 2013, in line with the prior out-perform our markets and we are well of investment and resource in recent years, year.
This reflects the significant profit positioned to leverage the investments which was maintained through 2013, as improvement achieved in the developed we have made to achieve growth and well as the improvement in processes and markets of Europe.
Focus was directed onto fewer, higher incremental sales value opportunities Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
