SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Chief Executives review Product development The key objectives in reorganising the Group are to enable agile decision $100.5M making, to unleash the creativity and innovation of Spirents expert and 17% talented people and to devolve responsibility and accountability to customer facing management teams.
The result will be an organisation that is more effective in delivering expert solutions that are easy-to-use by customers to manage and deploy their complex systems.
Eric Hutchinson Chief Executive Officer 8 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Wireless & Service Experience and Service Assurance.
Each segment Cloud data center traffic will grow at a faster rate is comprised of business units focused on delivery of particular than traditional data center traffic zettabytes per year technology solutions.
Each of these business units are led by a CAGR 2012-17 9.0 management team under a general manager responsible for all the activities required to serve customers.
8.0 7.0 25% Networks & Applications 6.0 Cloud data center The businesses in Networks & Applications specialise in Ethernet 69% 5.0 35% CAGR test, applications test and network performance, cyber security, Traditional data center 4.0 Wi-Fi offload and mobile packet core.
The development of virtual 12% CAGR 3.0 test solutions to address the emerging needs of software-defined networks SDN and network functions virtualization NFV are 46% 2.0 31% a key part of the divisions product portfolio.
In addition, a new 1.0 54% Infrastructure Test Optimization ITO & Solutions business unit has been created to deliver test automation and professional 12 13 14 15 16 17 services.
This business unit will address the demands by customers Source: Cisco Global Cloud Index.
for greater efficiency and effectiveness through providing lab management tools, expert analysis of data from test and Market conditions measurement systems and testing services.
Another new business It has been a challenging year for Spirent: revenues have decreased unit has been established to apply our test technology expertise, and profit has been impacted significantly.
The Company has lost including cloud based testing-as-a-service, to enterprise customers.
some market share in its core markets.
Technologies have been in a rapid transition and some customers have faced great difficulties, Wireless & Service Experience with the business performance of a number of major customers Within this division the wireless business unit serves the test needs of declining markedly, reducing demand for our test systems.
There has the wireless device ecosystem.
This business unit is in transition as the been a structural change in the shape of the wireless mobile device key served market centred on carrier acceptance test for mobile industry, resulting in a market characterised by a very small number devices, 3G CDMA and UMTS mobile test requirements, has moved into of profitable manufacturers.
The rapid shift to deployment of a single long term decline, being replaced by the development and deployment global standard for wireless technologies, 4G LTE, while continuing of 4G LTE technologies.
Solutions now under development in the to represent an opportunity for Spirent, has also eroded the 3G wireless business unit address the needs of those developing and technology niches where Spirent had a high market share.
Regionally deploying the next-generation of services enabled by 4G LTE demand has been weak in Europe, China and in some market technologies and which provide for the evaluation of the mobile users segments in North America.
The impact of the market challenges service level of experience.
The positioning test business unit designs described above was exacerbated by historical under investment the worlds leading satellite navigation simulation systems for use by by Spirent in the development of core technologies, in channels equipment manufacturers and system developers that utilise the to market and in customer support.
various different global and regional satellite navigation and positioning technologies.
The service experience business units focus Strategy and organisational structure is on the performance of devices in the live carrier network, providing The vision for Spirent is to consolidate its position as the leading detailed analysis of the subscriber experience that allows wireless expert in test and measurement for information technology service providers and their suppliers to successfully roll out new communications worldwide.
In order to achieve this aim, a number devices and services.
A new business unit has also been set up to of areas are an important focus of Spirents future investment.
develop solutions for emerging needs in the automotive technology These include: the development of new product solutions in its market, including related connectivity challenges.
core businesses in Networks & Applications, Wireless & Service Experience and Service Assurance: establishment of an enterprise Service Assurance sales channel: enhancements to Spirents cyber security test For Service Assurance the primary business is the provision of live offering: and new solutions directed towards automotive network monitoring systems for diagnostics and assurance of service technologies and related connectivity testing.
levels for wireline, wireless service providers and multi-service cable operators.
Furthermore, better alignment of the business internally will allow Spirent to maximise the growth areas that offer the most significant The key objectives in reorganising the Group are to enable agile future opportunities.
To this end, a number of management changes decision making, to unleash the creativity and innovation of Spirents have been completed to provide a streamlined, decentralised and expert and talented people and to devolve responsibility and simplified organisational structure.
These internal changes have accountability to customer facing management teams.
The result been made to create a more agile and responsive business that better will be an organisation that is more effective in delivering expert serves customer needs as well as to sharpen the business focus solutions that are easy-to-use by customers to manage and deploy on anticipating customers requirements for the future.
The Group their complex systems.
This will enable the Group to return to growth is managed as three operating segments: Networks & Applications, and to enhance the long term value of its business.
