96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 1 Martin Q&A Griffiths Martin Griffiths took up his position as Chief Executive on 1 May.
He discusses the Groups strategy, its formula for success, the challenges and opportunities facing the transport sector, and his priorities looking to the future.
Your recent move to Chief Executive is one of a number What are your priorities having taken over of executive management and Board changes at as Chief Executive?
We have a clear and consistent strategy.
Delivering that is what my job is all Stagecoach.
Will there be a change in the Groups about.
For me, the priorities moving forward are around people, technology approach or strategy?
Stagecoach has consistently been the best and most The transition to the new executive team and the Board changes have innovative public transport group.
As well as our ideas, our success has been been part of a well thought through succession plan.
Ive been part of the built on the commitment of our employees and having the right people with Stagecoach journey for the past 16 years and Im proud to have been the right skills in the right place.
The success of the transport operation we ran entrusted with a fantastic opportunity of taking the Group forward and for the London 2012 Games showcased exactly that.
Our people have a key building on our huge success.
The day-to-day leadership has changed and role in the daily lives of the three million customers we serve every day in the I have my own style and ideas, but it will be very much evolution, not UK and North America from our bus and train drivers, to operations and revolution.
It would be stupid to rip up something that has worked engineering teams, commercial and customer service staff, and many other successfully for a long time.
Our consistent strategy has been good for our people behind the scenes.
We need to be 100% focused on delivering the best Group and our people.
Its worked for our customers.
And we have a great service we can to our customers.
Technology is changing all businesses and track-record of delivering strong returns to our shareholders.
We will do transport is no different.
We live in the age of the smartphone and we need what Stagecoach does best: continue to learn and evolve.
to harness the power of new technology to help grow our business.
There are a few changes in roles in the senior How would you sum up 2012 13?
Are you confident you have a team Its been a tough, but successful year for Stagecoach.
Weve posted a good that will continue to deliver the strong growth the Group set of financial results and achieved a lot.
Revenue has grown further and has achieved over many years?
weve successfully expanded the footprint of the business in North America.
Success is about leadership and its also about teamwork.
Stagecoach has always Innovation and quality has continued to be at the heart of the business.
Weve had managers at senior and local level who are respected for their experience launched new products such as our sleepercoach service and weve won and delivering results.
Im fortunate to have access to that same expertise and further awards for the high quality of our services and our commitment to insight.
Ross Paterson, who has stepped up to Finance Director, has made a sustainable growth.
At the same time, weve reduced costs and delivered great contribution to Stagecoach for almost 14 years.
Stagecoach is in great millions of pounds to the taxpayer.
We continue to make financial shape and Ive absolutely no doubt the Groups assets will be in safe a huge positive contribution to our economy, our communities and our hands.
In our UK Bus division, Robert Montgomery has taken over as Managing environment.
And weve achieved all of that against a backdrop of significant Director.
He has nearly 40 years experience of regulated and deregulated reductions in public spending on transport and in a continuing tough markets in the bus and coach sector.
Alistair Smith, Director of Commercial and economy where businesses in many other sectors are struggling.
Most IT, has been with the Group for 14 years.
He has established our leading position importantly, weve continued to deliver strongly for our investors.
It caps in smart ticketing in the UK and is making sure we remain at the forefront of ten years of delivery and sustainable growth, with total shareholder return benefitting from commercial opportunities.
Across the Group, we have strong of more than 800% over the ten years ended 30 April 2013. devolved management teams who each know their markets and what their customers want.
We are also developing a new generation of talented young Stagecoach consistently delivers strong results in managers.
All of these factors give me great confidence in the future.
What is the secret of its success?
Without question, we have the best bus division in the UK.
It has set the Sir Brian Souter, as co-founder of the Group, has been standard for our industry over many years.
We have a proven formula that has hugely influential and been behind some sectorbeen behind the success of all of our businesses.
Its a combination of strong transforming innovations over the years.
Is that not operational performance, consistent investment in our bus and rail services, a tough act to follow?
delivering value-for-money travel, and consistently achieving high customer Brian is a unique leader.
He has huge experience and his many achievements satisfaction.
Strong partnerships with other organisations have also been have been rightly recognised around the world.
Im not going to try to be central to our approach.
All of that has flowed though to good financial another Brian.
We all have our different personalities and styles.
It has meant we have delivered consistently for our customers learned a huge amount from him.
We have worked as a team for the past and the shareholders who have invested in our business, many of whom dozen or so years.
That approach will continue and Im delighted that, in his are our own employees.
The challenge for me and the team is to continue role as Chairman, we will continue to have access to his ideas and insight that to deliver that success and Im confident we have the people to do that.
have been such a big part of the development of Stagecoach since we were founded in 1980.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 2 Its now around two-and-a-half years since you North America is the fastest growing division in the re-entered the London bus market.
How has the Group, but its a competitive market and one where the turnaround plan for the business progressed?
Group and other UK businesses have faced challenges in When we bought back the London business in October 2010, it had gone the past.
How do you see the next few years developing into administration and was loss-making.
There was also uncertainty for its for that part of the business?
Since then, a huge amount of management effort and North America is a really exciting market for us.
We have put in a significant staff commitment has gone into turning the business around.
Weve worked amount of investment over the past few years as weve established our constructively in partnership with the trade unions and our people to make megabus.
Our business acquisitions last summer have also given the business more efficient and were now winning contracts based on us a great foundation for the future and weve successfully integrated these appropriate financial terms.
Weve also achieved our profit margin target for businesses into the division.
We are in a far different place compared to our the business.
Our priority is to continue to focus on delivering a good quality initial entry into North America at the end of the 1990s.
Today we are clear on bus service to people in London and running an efficient business that gives our core markets.
There is no doubt the inter-city bus market is competitive, us a platform to win new contracts.
but our real competitor is the car and we have only scratched the surface of what is possible there.
2013 14 will be about consolidating our leading Media coverage has been dominated by the issues position in that market and converting our strong passenger demand into with UK rail franchising over the past year and some profitable growth.
have questioned the value of the sector for investors.
There is still concern about the low growth in the global What is your view?
Theres no question its been a really difficult year.
Everyone who is passionate economy and further cuts in public spending by about our railways would prefer not to have gone through that experience, governments.
How is that likely to affect Stagecoach?
But out of that hiatus, I think we have a real opportunity.
At a macro level, there is continuing uncertainty.
Economists are predicting Recent announcements by the Department for Transport have brought a longer period of low growth than previously predicted after the downturn greater clarity and confidence in the future of UK rail.
While the franchising took hold.
Austerity means that we can expect to see continued pressure programme has been delayed, we now have a clear programme for on public spending and that includes investment in public transport.
Im pleased that Stagecoach is closely involved in helping to good news for our businesses is that they have been stress-tested over several develop a new franchising model and we have had positive engagement years during the most difficult economic cycle for many decades and come with the Department for Transport.
Im optimistic we can get a more through it.
Our bus and rail businesses have shown great resilience, we are sustainable model that will have the right balance of risk and reward and one less dependent on government funding and we have continued to maintain that fully recognises quality operators and quality bids.
Lets not forget the our investment grade ratings.
Stagecoach is continuing to grow, with value huge contribution private sector train companies have made to a growing and products that are in great demand, and that should give us great confidence.
more efficient railway, delivering more punctual services and more satisfied What can governments do to support the public passengers.
Stagecoach is shortlisted for the Thameslink and Docklands Light Railway franchises.
We have also held initial discussions around the delivery of the planned Promoting pro-public transport measures such as bus park-and-ride, building extensions to our South West Trains and East Midlands Trains franchises.
public transport into planning developments, and measures to help transport We and our investors have a lot to be positive about.
Our priority is to operators keep fares affordable for passengers are all important.
It is also vital maintain the momentum to make things happen.
governments continue to recognise the wider value of public transport and the crucial role it plays in our economy, our communities and in meeting our A year ago, Stagecoach formed an alliance with Network global environmental challenges.
Take buses in the UK as just one example.
Rail at South West Trains.
The UK bus sector directly employs over 170,000 people, it spends 2.5 billion The alliance has delivered a huge amount in a short space of time.
in its supply chain, and it supports a further 83,000 supplier jobs.
Buses We have put in place new processes, improved the management of the connect people with work and help reduce welfare dependence.
railway infrastructure and enhanced the train service.
The efficiency of track Buses are also an important transport mode of young people and low income maintenance work has increased by 25% and delay minutes per incident have groups.
We are more efficient, more joined up and more customerThis year, Stagecoach launched the UK first long-term nationwide discounted focused.
The alliance set-up means we have far better insight into the bus travel scheme for jobseekers, providing half-price travel to help them find condition of the infrastructure.
It also means we have been able to look employment.
We fund it entirely on a commercial basis without any public holistically at how we address the challenge of growth on the network, which sector support.
Our business is built on delivering our services commercially.
is one of the busiest commuter railways in Europe.
We are working on some That is our core strength.
At a time of stretched budgets, I hope politicians exciting plans for the future and are also set to introduce new carriages over recognise the value-for-money they get from investment in public transport.
the next six months or so to create space for thousands more peak time What is your message to investors for the year ahead?
Our work over the past year shows we are at the forefront of new The Group is in great financial shape and weve made a good start to the thinking and Im convinced what we have learned will give us a competitive 2013 14 year.
The public transport market has long-term fundamental advantage in the future.
strengths and we have secured a leading position in a range of growing markets in the UK and North America.
If you look at issues such as rising road congestion, increasing environmental awareness and higher car operating costs, all of these factors are positive drivers for our business.
With a continuing supportive policy environment, Im confident we can make bus and rail rather than the car the travel modes of choice for increasing numbers of people in the UK and in North America.
