Chief Executives Report I Andrew Tinkler We are at a pivotal moment in the delivery of our four year strategic plan that we set out in March 2011.
With the investment phase now largely complete we are moving into the optimisation phase, realising the value in our divisions and delivering strong returns for our shareholders.
Our stated strategy of investment in businesses with high future Overall the Group is well underway with the implementation of growth potential followed by a two to three year period of value our four year plan.
All the building blocks are in place and the maximisation is on track.
We understand fully that there are a investment phase is largely complete.
We now move into the number of ways that we can deliver return on our investment.
optimisation and delivery phase to unlock the inherent value in Furthermore, we know that a critical factor in maximising returns our business portfolio for the benefit of our shareholders.
will be to get the timing of our actions right.
Earlier this year, the Executive team, together with certain Board members, reviewed Stobart Transport & Distribution our strategy and confirmed that it is the right one for the Group.
Transport & Distribution remains our largest operating division.
Matched with our commitment to sound governance, we will not Our ability to continue to develop and implement leading be diverted from our long-term plan to maximise returns by shortsystems and processes has enabled us to remain competitive term distractions.
As we discussed last year, key in our ability to in a challenging environment and we continue to work to achieve this for shareholders will be our ability to continue to have increase our already sector-leading fleet utilisation rates.
We the right people, in the right place with the right skills and at the constantly strive to improve performance, increase our levels of right time.
We are making sure we have that team in place and customer service excellence and stay alert to opportunities to we will continue to invest in our people through the year to keep help our customers improve efficiency levels through them focussed and on track.
The discontinuance of the Chilled pallet In last years Annual Report & Accounts we explained the consolidation business was complex in some ways for us, but benefits of our Time Based Planning system.
As we use the overall our Transport & Distribution business has had a hugely system more we are better able to exploit its capabilities and positive year, further enhanced by the acquisition of Autologic in thereby improve its effectiveness in our business and the August.
This performance was matched with exciting and rewarding Our ability to track each delivery and the elapsed time for each developments at London Southend Airport where we welcomed stage of that delivery enables us to monitor the factors driving over 700,000 travellers through the airport during the period.
This our costs in detail, highlighting areas where we can, and do, has been predominantly as a result of our burgeoning and highly improve efficiencies.
We collaborate with our customers as successful partnership with easyJet.
While costs have been slightly partners in a business operation to improve performance and higher than expected as we took on more staff costs at start-up, drive efficiencies for the benefit of both their business and ours.
we are very pleased with the development of the airport and our It is through our deployment of powerful analytical tools across position in the London marketplace, with passengers recently the business that we were able to spot firstly the opportunity to voting us best performing airport for customer satisfaction.
reorganise the Ambient transport network and, secondly, establish As a result of our specialised offering of renewable fuel supply the need to restructure the Chilled business, which has led to the and transportation, our Biomass business is now in pole position discontinuance of the Chilled pallet consolidation business.
to secure a significant proportion of this quickly developing A year ago, we outlined our plans to restructure the Chilled market as the legislative approvals come through.
business that was originally acquired through the acquisition of The Estates division has had an active year and has delivered Innovate in 2008 at low cost out of administration.
We envisaged strong results with the Moneypenny investment property portfolio the closure of two depots and a total restructuring charge in the now fully integrated into the Group and with a plan for each 28 February 2013 Accounts of some 8.0m.
Going forward we will be looking to realise value in the implement the proposed restructuring following our detailed and most mature assets which will both contribute cash and reduce ongoing analysis, it became apparent that this small load, Group debt sooner than expected.
multiple pick and drop business, which was principally undertaken for producers rather than retailers, was too unpredictable for a large scale operation.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 3 Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 4 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 5 We carefully considered whether there was a way in which we including lease and rent review negotiations, have been could re-engineer the business processes to reduce the undertaken in the year.
These have been the key factors in the imbalance in part-loaded running and the incidence of small uplift in value of the portfolio in the year of 5.2m.
Unfortunately our analysis showed that we simply could The development of 37 Soho Square into high-end residential not make this business profitable at the rates that our customers units is due for completion in June 2013.
The first two sales at were prepared to pay.
As a consequence, we decided to close this property are contracted off-plan for a total of 5.7m which the Chilled pallet consolidation business.
The loss in the year is extremely encouraging.
Although the challenging market has including closure costs was 13.4m.
This closure has not affected meant that disposals have been slightly slower than anticipated, the chilled movements we undertake for our supermarket the division has nevertheless achieved three sales to date at a customers which continue to operate as part of the main Transport higher than expected profit.
It is also worth noting that the & Distribution business, or within the warehousing operation that division achieves a high income return, pending sales.
we acquired from Innovate, which continues to perform well.
Key milestones have also been achieved elsewhere, including Stobart Rail Freight and Ports continue to operate well with the completion of the Holiday Inn development at London steady growth in both areas.
This is demonstrated by the Southend Airport and the gaining of planning consent for the increasing use of rail for our FMCG grocery traffic, creating cost redevelopment of Carlisle Airport and a biomass plant at Widnes.
savings for customers whilst helping them to achieve carbon With the management structure and strategy currently in place, reduction targets.
Our expertise in road-to-rail modal shift the Board is confident that the Estates division will continue to enables us to intelligently assist customers, providing innovative deliver strong results in the medium term.
solutions for their logistical requirements.
A typical example is the supply of stock to central London convenience stores Infrastructure & Civil Engineering through a rail facility at Euston Station.
The Infrastructure & Civil Engineering division has played a In August 2012 we acquired Autologic Holdings plc for a cash significant role in the development of London Southend Airport.
Autologic operated two distinct It will continue to do so with the extension to the passenger businesses, Vehicle Distribution transport and Vehicle Services terminal and other projects where we can use this division to workshops and storage in the UK, Benelux and Czech drive value.
This will also be the case with the development Republic.
In January 2013 we disposed of the non-core Vehicle programme at Carlisle Airport which is expected to commence Services business for 11.0m.
However, we retain the freehold in 2013.
Planning consent has been obtained for the biomass site at Portbury, which is used in this division, and currently lease plant at Widnes and this too will be a project undertaken by the it to the purchasers.
The Vehicle Distribution business has been division.
We are considering a number of different funding re-branded Stobart Automotive, forming a new business unit options for these developments.
within our Transport & Distribution division.
During the new financial year we expect to deliver savings and synergies from External work, principally in the rail sector, continues and looking aligning this business unit with others in the division.
forward, a number of significant infrastructure projects have been announced by Network Rail and by Government.
With our well We plan to bring the Autologic transporter fleet up to the known and well proven ability to find creative and highly coststandards of the rest of our fleet.
The reaction of customers to effective civil engineering solutions, we are ideally placed to this acquisition has been extremely positive and we are now competitively tender and secure new contracts.
rolling-out the re-branding of the transporter fleet alongside the introduction of new systems and technologies.
Stobart Air As ever, the sustainability of any one of our transport or distribution operations is critical both to our customers and to It has been a landmark year for London Southend Airport LSA, us.
To that end, we work tirelessly to reduce the environmental which is now officially recognised as Londons sixth airport.
We impact of our activities, not only by adopting the latest low extended our partnership with easyJet and by the end of the year emission trucks, but also by optimising their driven miles.
we expect to serve 15 easyJet destinations.
It is our aim to increase further the number of destinations available in response to the recognition by both passengers and carriers of LSAs Stobart Estates convenient location and the benefits offered by its rail link to The Estates division has had a busy year and has delivered central London.
strong results against the backdrop of a very challenging Our relationship with Aer Arann, trading as Aer Lingus Regional property market.
The Moneypenny investment property portfolio under a ten year franchise agreement, provides us with an acquired in 2012 has now been fully integrated into the Group unrivalled opportunity to capitalise swiftly and highly costand a strategy is being implemented to maximise the exit value effectively on the London to North America routes via Dublin.
A number of asset management initiatives, increased our holding in Aer Arann to 45% to drive volume into LSA.
This should deliver significant revenue and profit through the airport helping to improve its value.
Our next phase is to use the airline to start new routes out of LSA with focus on Spring 2014.
Opposite: London Southend Airports successful relationship with easyJet is moving forward apace: the leading airline will site a fourth aircraft at the Stobart Air facility in June, some 12 months ahead of the original schedule.
