Business review Chief Executives review Synergy will continue to implement its strategy to develop its services internationally with a particular focus on Asia and the Americas.
Dr Richard M Steeves Chief Executive Introduction andgrowth in adjusted operating profit of 14.8% to 56.2million, with stable operating margins.
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services for medical device manufacturers, hospitals and Synergy has made two HSS acquisitions in the US: firstly other industries.
Worldwide, we operate a complete range in March 2012 with the acquisition of MSI Surgical of technologies, including in Switzerland the worlds first Solutions LLC MSI in New York.
This single processing pallet x-ray irradiator.
Synergy also provides other niche facility gave Synergy its first insights into the local market, outsourced services, such as healthcare linen, pathology and has since been fully integrated into the Americas and specialist laboratory services.
All of our businesses region.
Our second HSS acquisition was SRI Surgical have the benefit of significant barriers to entry, stable long Express Inc SRI, in July 2012, and whilst this business term contracts and good cash generation.
had been loss-making for some time, our experience led us to believe that the business could be restructured to At the start of the year the Group was faced with the drive profitable growth.
The acquisition has proved to be continued economic slowdown in Europe and the UK, agreat success.
A swift integration of the business into the adeteriorating market for healthcare linen services in the region, together with the application of Synergys expertise, Netherlands as a result of extreme price competition, and has resulted in a quick return to profitability andmore currency headwinds driven by the devaluation of the Euro.
recently, to renewed revenue growth.
With ten facilities To offset these challenges the Board decided to bring plusdistribution hubs, SRI has provided the region with forward Synergys entry into the Hospital Sterilisation thescale and infrastructure necessary to launch a national Services HSS market in the US, and this well-timed outsourcing service for HSS services in a market worth move has resulted in a solid outcome for the year with more than $2 billion per annum.
From the initial launch reported revenue growth of 15.8% to 361.2 million abid book of $60 million per annum was quickly built 8 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Our long-term strategy To achieve sustainable growth in shareholder value we have a strategy to develop niche, high value-added outsourcing services with global potential, to health-related markets.
Our present focus is on high growth markets including Asia and the Americas, where we are principally developing oursterilisation services.
Following a recent strategic review the Board and for healthcare providers such as acute hospitals via islooking at opportunities to expand its services into other capital light, our HSS business.
In addition we are leading providers nicheoutsourcing solutions utilising the Groups existing capabilities ofsterile linen services in the UK and the Netherlands, andinfrastructure.
manufacturers of infection control products and providers We deliver our services more efficiently than our competitors by employing of specialist laboratory services.
a cost leadership strategy taking advantage of our globalscale and the The growth of our AST business has been a priority and deployment of technology.
We also strive to competitively differentiate this is reflected in global reported revenue for this service ourselves through our people by the way we deliver our services, reflected up 12.5% to 107.3 million 2012: 95.4 million.
Excluding in our core values of integrity, innovation, achievement and accountability.
SRI, HSS revenue increased by 9.7% to 68.9million 2012: 62.8million whilst healthcare linen revenue 1. expand the business internationally declined by 8.1% at103.0 million 2012: 112.0million as a result ofpricedeflation in the Netherlands and 2. focus on high value-added services currency effects.
Our healthcare products business continues to improve: it contributed 1.3 million to 3. differentiation from our competitors through ourpeople operating profit, although revenue declined by 12.8% to36.4 million 2012: 41.7 million reflecting further 4. cost leadership product rationalisation and a focus onprofitability.
Our objective is to grow revenue and earnings by approximately 15% per annum through a combination of organic and acquisitive growth.
Our strategy is to continue to internationalise our services, competitively differentiate andjust under half of this book has been converted to Synergy through our people, maintain cost leadership and preferred bidder status in recent months.
These new HSS focus on value-added services with high barriers to entry.
opportunities, together with a return to growth in the wider The Board reviews Synergys strategy annually and SRI business, set the stage for a period of good growth assesses progress on implementation.
At our most from this region.
recentreview we concluded that we could improve our We are also making good progress in our other regions organic growth by building on our testing laboratories with business development activities at an all-time high, inEuropeand the UK and broadening their reach.
and what appears to be a cessation of the extreme price Thisaction, alongside continued internationalisation competition in the Dutch linen market after we declared a ofourcore business streams, will improve Synergys change of strategy in February.
To ensure that we capitalise levelof organic growth as well as accelerate a targeted on global opportunities, the Board has been actively improvement in our operating return on capital employed.
strengthening regional management teams, with the appointment of several senior leaders including a new Regional structure regional managing director in Europe & the Middle East, Synergy operates its business as four geographic new regional finance directors in Europe & the Middle regionscovering the global market.
The structure East, Asia & Africa and the Americas, and a new global providesthe depth and resilience necessary to operate Business Development Director for our Applied Sterilisation ageographically diverse business, as well as providing Technology business AST, based in the US.
We are also responsive leadership as close to the customer as possible.
recruiting a new regional Chief Executive Officer for the The strategy to internationalise continues to play an Americas, who we expect to appoint by theend of the important role, protecting the Group against economic second quarter.
As a result of these developments, we uncertainties in Europe whilst providing opportunities believe that 2013 14 will mark an inflexion point for forgrowth in the faster growing Asia & Africa and Synergy with a return to stronger organicgrowth with Americasregions.
Looking across the regions, our strategy to broaden Outlook ourinternational reach continues to gather momentum.
Synergy will continue to implement its strategy to develop Asia&Africa and the Americas now account for 22.7% its services internationally with a particular focus on Asia ofrevenue compared with 9.8% last year, andwith the and the Americas.
To ensure the implementation of the expansion of these regions we expect their share of strategy creates sustained growth, we have significantly revenue to continue to increase.
Ourmedium term enhanced the senior management team in most regions objective is to have 50% of the Groups revenue derived with more experienced leaders with international from outside of the UK andEurope.
Throughout the year the number of business Synergy is in good shape with an internationally diversified development opportunities has increased significantly, business providing high value-added services underpinned andwhilst a conversion to contract takes time, we start by long term contracts.
Cash generation has been excellent, thenew financial year with a spirit of optimism.
As a result, increasing by 12.0% to 95.2 million 2012: 85.0 million, the Board is confident that Synergy will enjoy another reducing gearing to 1.8 times EBITDA which is well below successful year of growth in line with its objectives.
our internal ceiling of net debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times.
Dr Richard Steeves Strategy Group Chief Executive Officer Our core service is the provision of outsourced sterilisation for medical device manufacturers via our AST business, 5 June 2013 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 9
