Chief Executive Ofcers report Overview Divisional performance We saw clear evidence that our rate of 2013 was a challenging year for the innovation is improving, with a number We manage the Group as two Group, with underlying Group operating businesses: Europe & North America of patent lings during the year.
The new profit of 104.8 million, 5.8% below product launches from 2012, including ENA and Asia & Rest of World prior year.
Ultra, grew well during ARW.
The reported results are on new Lithene 2013.
We also launched two new nitrile an origination basis, meaning the The general economic situation in grades during the year.
Looking forward, business sales and operating profits are Europe, with lower demand led to the quality of our innovation pipeline reported based on where the product is a lower ENA operating profit.
As we is encouraging, and we believe we manufactured: ENA accounted for 71% entered 2014 the operating environment are well set for future growth.
We expect of Group sales and ARW for 29% of in Europe remained challenging.
several new product launches during Group sales.
We export many specialty Encouragingly, we saw recovery the coming year across our business, products from Europe to Asia.
Looking in our Asian Nitrile business come including new products in nitrile latex.
at sales on a destination basis, ENA through ahead of our expectations comprises 63% of Group sales with New products launched in the last ARW accounting for 37%.
Within the in 2013, and overall operating profit in Asia and ROW was ahead.
5 years contributed over 12% of 2013 two businesses, we approach the Group revenues.
We are confident of market through six strategic business Net of interest, and a reduced tax rate, being able to improve this percentage, unit segments, Paper, Carpet, and have a mid-term target of sales Compounds and Foam CCF, earnings were down slightly on 2012. from new products, dened as products Construction and Coatings CC, launched in the preceding 5 years, Functional Polymers FP, This was the first year that underlying earnings have declined since 2006, increasing to a level where they contribute Performance Polymers PP and 20% of annual group revenues.
Health and Protection HP which when we started the process of transforming the Company into a includes our Asian nitrile Latex business.
On the investment front, we focused specialty aqueous polymers business.
Whilst this was disappointing, commissioned two new nitrile latex Europe & North America ENA lines in Malaysia at the beginning of Operating profit in our ENA business we continued to make good overall progress during the year in improving 2013.
Our Dispersion expansion in was down by 10.4%, with aggregate Stallingborough, to allow the closure volumes 2.5% lower.
the capability of the business to deliver future growth and maintain a tight of Batley, was completed.
In paper, we completed the investment in The economic situation in Europe control on costs.
bio-polymer hybrid latex in Finland, continued to impact demand, and commenced investment in particularly in our Construction related The acquisition of PolymerLatex three years ago was an important part of Germany for the same and similar segments, which was most pronounced products.
We continued to invest early in the year, when poor weather the transformation of the Group into a focused specialty aqueous polymer in many smaller projects to improve resulted in soft demand in what is the overall capability of our plants normally a seasonally strong period.
We have now effectively completed the work on delivering to drive our commercial and cost We have also seen a reduction in effectiveness in servicing our customer average unit cash margins.
the integration synergies from the acquisition with the closure of the base.
We will be expanding our Vietnamese and Saudi Arabian This margin impact has been most Batley site in the UK.
dispersions capacity during 2014, and pronounced in our Paper and CCF are currently developing plans to further segments, whilst declines in CC, During the year we further strengthened the Groups Executive Management expand our nitrile latex capacity in Asia.
PP and FP were very modest.
team with the recruitment of new regional VPs for both Asia and Europe.
Raw material price volatility was Volumes for the year were lower across relatively low during the year, compared the construction related segments I believe we are well placed for the to recent years, albeit with a modest of CC, PP, FP and CCF.
Despite the decline over the year.
This modest overall decline in the European paper future, focused on aqueous polymers, with a stronger management team decline in input prices has lowered market, we saw some volume working capital requirements slightly improvement in our Paper segment, and enhanced capability in the areas of product development and process and helped in the reduction of net debt increasing our share overall, albeit to 133.6 million.
on generally lower unit cash margins.
know-how, combined with a more modern and cost effective asset base and state-of-the-art R&D facilities.
12 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report We are well placed for the future, focused on aqueous polymers, with a stronger management team and enhanced capability in the areas of product development and process know-how, combined with a more modern and cost effective asset base and state-of-the-art R&D facilities.
Adrian Whiteld Chief Executive officer After reporting ENA volumes down Asia & Rest of World ARW A further key part of the Groups 5.1% in the first half of the year, demand Operating profit in our ARW segment was strategy is to add value through our generally remained soft in the second higher by 20.9% on 8.2% higher volumes.
technology and know-how by deploying half of the year, as the difficult economic it into Asia and other emerging markets.
conditions in Europe continued to affect Since we reported on the turbulence in We had several new product launches performance.
Overall volumes in the the nitrile market half way through 2012, in the region in 2013.
We have launched second half of the year were similar the business, having stabilised in the a new product range for chopped to prior year with the volume declines second half of 2012, developed ahead strand glass bre mat applications, in the construction related segments of our expectations during 2013.
We where our knowledge of textile binders predominantly occurring in the first half expect to see supply demand tighten has been effectively used in a new of the year.
during 2014, with a further improvement application area.
Our new nitrile grade in profitability.
for examination gloves was launched to There were multiple product launches the market, which offered a significant in ENA during the year.
Two new The non-nitrile business has seen improvement in lm strength to support bio-polymer hybrid products were good demand.
As we exited the year, the market trend of lower glove weights.
launched to the coated paper market, we experienced a slight deterioration This was combined with a versatile based on our new technology platform in the competitive environment in performance on the glove dipping line, to optimise performance and cost.
South-east Asia as a competitor giving our customers process and A new Lithene Ultra grade was formulation exibility.
Market acceptance prepared to bring new Dispersion introduced to the market in a niche capacity in Malaysia on line to service was extremely positive and by the end encapsulation area, which was enabled of the year, the new grade was the the region.
by our improved low VOC capability.
biggest selling product in the Synthomer Market introductions for High-Solids range.
Further development work to Overall, we continue to see good SBR have been made for the US asphalt prospects for the non-nitrile business extend the product line is ongoing.
market and for foam applications that in Asia.
Expansion in the region is a core meet the specic demands in China.
part of our strategy, and we will bring A number of other products are in the Adrian Whiteld on further capacity in Middle East and initial commercialisation phase, for Vietnam in 2014.
We also continue to Chief Executive officer example, in wood coatings, pressure 27 February 2014 pursue opportunities for growth in the sensitive adhesives and ooring region through acquisition.
adhesive segments, where we expect to see full market launch next year.
ENA is our platform for cash generation Europe & North America ENA Asia & Rest of World ARW to drive future global growth.
We have worked hard since the PolymerLatex Underlying as reported Underlying as reported acquisition to create an optimised Sales m Sales m business in Europe, with the closure of three plants, and the delivery of 2013 744.8 2013 310.1 substantial cost reductions, which have 2012 796.9 2012 314.9 positioned us well to deal with the economic situation.
However, ongoing cost management remains a key focus Operating profit m Operating profit m of the Group, and we have launched a programme comprising a broad range 2013 89.8 2013 23.1 of further improvements which will help support performance during 2014 and 2012 100.2 2012 19.1 2015.
The programme will reduce costs in the business by 10 million per annum by the end of 2015.
Critical Volumes ktes Volumes ktes elements in delivering this will be 2013 805.5 2013 376.2 increased process and energy efficiency, productivity improvements and 2012 825.9 2012 347.7 optimised systems across all functions.
We anticipate cash cost of circa Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated income statement.
15 million for the implementation of this programme, of which 5 million will be capex.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 13 e c n e l l e c x E G r o Excellence Operating efficiently Synthomer was one of the first companies to The Marl site began work on achieving sign the UK Chemical Industries Associations the ISO50001 accreditation in 2012, sustainable development principles.
As part implementing a number of projects designed of this commitment we strive to improve our to improve efficiency.
One of the key projects environmental performance year on year.
involved the installation and optimisation of a new stripper for the purication of SBR To help the Company achieve this objective latex as a key part of the energy savings.
a comprehensive performance monitoring structure has been in place for over 10 years The new stripping process is much more and resulted in a steady improvement of efficient and allows significant savings in our environmental performance.
To continue steam and electrical energy e. g. to run this trend and reduce specic energy pumps.
The steam consumption of the consumption consumption per ton plant using the new stripper has reduced Synthomer has begun implementing by over 23%.
This has resulted in annual a comprehensive energy management savings of 16,000 MWh, enough energy to system EMS.
heat 800 terraced houses for an entire year.
Since 2011, Synthomer has undertaken This initiative is one of many which focus a scheme to establish EMS to meet on improving operational efficiency and have the ISO50001 standard at a number a positive impact on Synthomers operational of its European sites.
As a result, our and financial performance.
site in Langelsheim, Germany acquired the ISO50001 accreditation in 2012.
This success has led the way for our three production sites, labs and ofces in Marl to work towards achieving the standard.
800 A new stripping process results in energy savings equivalent to the annual consumption of 800 houses 14 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 w t h n o i t a v o n n I
