TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Chief Executive Officers statement This has been a momentous year for TalkTalk, which Strong momentum in is now a fundamentally better business than it was  three years ago.
In the year we have returned our 230,000 TV customers in first six months customer base to growth, successfully launched andstronginstall momentum TV and mobile handsets, grown TalkTalk Business We launched our TV proposition for Plus customers and returned to year-on-year revenue growth in atthe end of September 2012, featuring a free YouView the final quarter.
We have the UKs fastest growing set top box and no additional monthly fee.
In addition new TV business and our customers clearly to the excellent content on the YouView platform appreciate its comprehensive content and value including seven day catch up and over 70 Freeview for money pricing.
We will continue to invest in channels including some in HD, our service features growth and remain confident that having more search, pause and recording of live TV and a huge library customers whobuy more products and who stay of the best films and shows from the US and UK.
Our with us longer puts us firmly on track to achieve proposition also offers simply priced, easy and flexible ourmedium term financial targets.
access to bundles of over 50 premium channels including all Sky Sports channels 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and Formula 1 and FY13 Business Review all Sky Movie channels available for one month at a We returned to growth in FY13 and have made strong time, with no costly annual subscriptions.
progress in our key strategic priorities.
Since launch we have enhanced our proposition with awide range of transactional and on-demand content Returned customer base to growth in H2 through LoveFilm Box Office and other studios and We returned our customer base to growth in the second access to blockbuster movies, international on-demand half of the year.
Resilient demand for our value for money and subscription content, such as Star, Star and StarOD, proposition and reducing churn has offset the decline and specialist channels, such as the Digital Theatre in our legacy base.
Channel and the Karaoke Channel.
We added 66,000 net new On-net customers in H2, In addition to our popular engineer install which gives comprising strong growth of 133,000 in our core MPF customers security and peace of mind, we launched broadband and voice product, offset by the net loss aself-install option in Q4, offering free and faster of67,000 legacy SMPF broadband-only customers.
Early feedback on the Over 81% of our broadband customers are now fully easeof installation from those customers who have unbundled and able to benefit from our added value opted to do it themselves is highly positive.
products such as Plus TV, mobile, fibre and HomeSafe.
Since launch, when we focused initially on our existing The Off-net broadband base, which now comprises customers, the base has grown rapidly and we ended less than 5% of our total base, continued to decline, the year with an installed base of 230,000 customers, with a reduction in the second half of the year of around 25% of whom are new to TalkTalk.
As a result our total broadband base grew by20,000 during the second half of the year.
Momentum towards the end of the year benefited from the availability of a self-install option and we exited the For the year as a whole, we added 115,000 net new year with connections running at 12,000 per week.
On-net customers, comprising growth of 229,000 in fully unbundled phone and broadband customers and Targeted at mass market value-seeking customers anet loss of 114,000 broadband-only customers.
Our TV proposition is targeted firmly at value-seeking Withthe Off-net broadband base reducing by 118,000, customers who want a little more TV, not a lot.
There we ended the year with a total broadband base of isa potentially large c. 8 million base of customers 4.063 million customers.
who currently take Freeview or Freesat, many of whom donot wish to enter into costly long term Pay TV We have continued to deliver significant improvements subscriptions.
Our proposition is proving to be a to our customers experience during the year with a powerful new way of watching TV for this segment 14% year-on-year reduction in calls into our contact ofthe market.
centres, over 70% of customers now benefiting from first time resolution of their query and a substantially reduced number of complaints to Ofcom during the year down 41% year-on-year.
As a result, we delivered improvements in churn through every quarter with monthly On-net churn in Q4 of 1.5% Q4 FY12: 1.7%.
4 Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Early data from our installed base is providing strong 175,000 mobile customers with lower churn evidence of the segmented nature of the UK TV market: In August 2012, we launched our TalkTalk Mobile contract handset proposition.
Available exclusively to TalkTalk customers who have previously been Freeview customers, TalkTalk Mobile offers simplicity, range and orFreesat users comprise 72% of the people great value plans.
All handsets, of which there is a broad takingourTV product: range available, are completely free with 24 month the majority of viewing by our customers is of contract plans starting from 5 a month.
Mobile handset theexcellent free to air and catch-up content on contracts are designed to pay back within the 24 month YouView c. 19.5 hours per week on average, with contract term and are ARPU and EBITDA accretive.
thebalance c. 2.5 hours on paid-for content: and Three plans are available Small, Medium and Large with 20% of our TV customers have bought one or more different prices depending on the choice of handset.
paid-for boosts mainly family and kids entertainment Customers can buy online or over the phone, with those packages and popular films with many showing a buying online getting double the data allowance.
This significant propensity to buy content beyond the simplicity, coupled with low running costs, means that initial sign-up.
We have seen particular success with we can offer the most popular handsets at competitive transactional video on-demand for blockbuster prices, ranging from basic feature phones to smartphones.
movies such as The Hobbit and Life of Pi.
As a result our mobile offering has gained strong traction, Positive feedback from installed base and lower churn with 175,000 customers now taking advantage of our Survey results from our customers reveal high levels innovative mobile-to-fixed calling offers, competitive of satisfaction with the sign-up process, installation call rates and handsets.
As with TV, the feedback from and functionality of TalkTalk TV: our mobile customers is highly encouraging: integrated catch-up TV on the YouView platform is mobile customers are significantly more likely to proving to be the most valuable feature for customers recommend TalkTalk than dual play customers, from both Pay TV and Freeview backgrounds: reporting a c. 20 point higher Net Promoter Score: and customers with previous experience of Pay TV cite churn from customers taking TalkTalk Mobile is the wide range of paid-for content boosts and the materially lower than the churn on our dual play flexibility of purchasing without long term subscriptions base, with seven out of ten customers saying they as very attractive: and were more likely to stay with TalkTalk beyond their contract terms than they would have been before content browsing and purchasing reflects the core taking mobile.
demographic of our family and value orientated customer base, with Entertainment and Childrens We will continue to develop our mobile proposition with packages, and transactional video on-demand further innovative tariff and bundle offers and see real proving the most popular.
opportunities to build a growing and profitable scale base.
Fibre building gradually As a result, these customers are significantly more Demand for fibre grew gradually during FY13 with likely to recommend TalkTalk than dual play customers, 65,000 more customers choosing to take paid-for reporting a c. 20 point higher Net Promoter Score.
speed uplifts versus 8,000 in FY12, taking our base Theyare also showing more loyalty and the churn from offibre customers to 73,000. customers taking TV is materially lower than the churn on our dual play base, with seven out of ten customers As expected, overall fibre demand among our who upgraded from phone and broadband saying they customer base remains modest.
We expect this will were more likely to stay with TalkTalk beyond their continue until the customer benefits of much higher contract terms than they would have been before bandwidth, and the value of accessing that bandwidth, taking TV.
Nevertheless, there are certain segments of our customer base that can derive clear Strong pipeline of product and content development value today from upgrading to fibre, for example those Looking ahead, in FY14, we plan to broaden our proposition who are interested in taking TV from us and live in a to appeal to all our customers by launching a value for fibre-enabled area but whose copper speed is money Essentials TV product.
This will enable us to currently lower than 3Mbps.
provide an even better value for money route for Freeview upgraders.
The Essentials TV product will We remain actively engaged with Ofcom and the consist of a smaller, lower cost set top box with no Government to promote greater competition in fibre PVRand only one tuner.
We are pleased to see Ofcom taking the importance of a level playing We will also extend our content offering for all customers field increasingly seriously, with the recent opening of with a range of specialist channels including foreign an investigation into BTs pricing of fibre.
language titles, education and entertainment.
5 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Chief Executive Officers statement continued TalkTalk Business delivering Largest unbundled network in the UK marginaccretive growth Our unbundling programme continued with 216 new Our TalkTalk Business customers take our On-net and exchanges added during the year, extending the reach of our value for money proposition to 2,724 exchanges Off-net basic phone and broadband products and and approximately 95% of the UK population.
We plan Corporate products and services data, carrier and voice products.
Corporate revenue grew by 1.9% to unbundle another 300 exchanges in FY14 and now see the potential to extend the programme beyond year-on-year to 322m as strong growth in data services 29% and carrier 10% offset a 5% decline that as the cost of unbundling exchanges falls and On-net customer ARPU grows, allowing us to continue inlower margin legacy voice related revenues.
to profitably extend our geographic reach.
Data services, which include Ethernet, managed networks and co-location, has built momentum rapidly In conjunction with our unbundling programme, we continue to expand the capacity of our network, which through the year, as we continued to expand our product set and scale up our volume capability.
We connected we expect to grow by 50100 times over the next three to five years.
The favourable economics of our network, over 6,000 Ethernet circuits during the year, taking our total base to over 10,000.
Revenues from this high which allows us to lease dark fibre at very competitive rates, means that we will be able to achieve this capacity margin product family tripled during the year to over 15m FY12: 5m and we expect continued strong expansion within our long run capex guideline of 6% ofrevenues.
We made significant progress in our partner channel Driving operating efficiencies aswe continued to drive innovative and competitive During the year we completed our Operating Efficiencies product development that leverages our network reach.
programme which has delivered 50m of annualised In May 2012, as part of a consortium led by Fujitsu, we cost savings, a more efficient business and a better were awarded a contract to provide network services experience for our customers.
The financial benefit for the phone and broadband customers of the Post ofthis programme in FY13 was a reduction in Office.
The contract, worth over 100m over five years, overheads of 25m.
ison track for services to go live during the second half of FY14.
We see further opportunity to make TalkTalk simpler tooperate, which in turn will improve our customers In December 2012, we reached an agreement with experience and reduce our costs, through driving Virgin Media Business on a five year contract worth process and efficiency improvements over the over 40m to provide additional choice for its medium term.
These are a key component of our Off-netEthernet connectivity.
medium term plan to achieve a 25% EBITDA margin.
Towards the end of the year, we were awarded a six year During FY13 we began our new Making TalkTalk Simpler contract by the Iceland retail group to support their data programme.
We expect that combined initiatives under and voice requirements across the UK, demonstrating this programme will drive incremental savings of our ability to provide Corporate customers with complete 30m50m over the next three to five years, of which data and voice solutions.
During this first In addition to the continued growth of margin accretive phase of the programme we: began the process of data products, we are realising opportunities to grow our restructuring the systems and processes that service carrier revenues and next generation voice products.
our TalkTalk Business customers to remove duplication Together, this is allowing us to offset the established and better align our sales and service model with our decline in low margin legacy voice revenues.
growth ambitions: completed the closure of our Stoke Mandeville site: consolidated the development of our We also have an opportunity, with our business IT systems under one partner: and continued to customers, to simplify operations and leverage the improve online functionality across the business.
cost and technology advantage of our network.
The These initiatives have delivered 3m of savings during combination of gross margin expansion through data the year.
revenue growth and generating cost savings through simplification will contribute meaningfully to the Groups medium term revenue and margin targets.
6 Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Summary FY15 and beyond In summary, FY13 has been a momentous year for We are on track to achieve our medium term targets TalkTalk.
We have returned the business to growth, of2% CAGR in revenue and 25% EBITDA margin.
successfully launched the fastest growing triple play We expect the components of our revenue growth proposition in the UK and a mobile base with real strategy improving On-net customer mix, growing traction and delivered strong growth in margin accretive TVand mobile penetration and growth in TalkTalk data products.
At the same time we have continued to Business also to contribute to our profitability target, make the business simpler to operate and successfully through gross margin over the medium term.
begun to deliver on our third cost saving programme.
We expect the balance of our profitability target to be delivered through both overhead reduction driven, FY14 Financial guidance amongst other things, by our Making TalkTalk Simpler We have entered the new financial year with growing programme and SAC declining from its FY14 peak revenues, a higher gross margin, lower overheads and driven by reducing churn and falling costs per addition.
significant headroom to invest further in growth.
As a result we expect to deliver strong EBITDA growth in Revenue FY15 and subsequent years, which we expect to support We expect FY14 revenues to grow by at least 2%.
continued dividend growth at a similar rate to FY14.
Overheads After benefiting from some acceleration of the savings from Making TalkTalk Simpler in FY13, we expect overheads as a percentage of revenues toremain broadly flat in FY14.
SAC and Marketing We expect total SAC as a percentage of revenues to peak in FY14 as we invest in building a scale base of TV subscribers, drive further penetration of mobile and fibre into our customer base and continue to grow TalkTalk Business.
SAC per customer, both for TV and non-TV customers, is expected to continue to reduce through the year.
Net debt Capex is expected to be within our guideline of 6% ofrevenue and working capital is expected to show outflows of 15m20m as we grow the business.
Cash exceptional items are expected to be in line with the incremental annualised savings benefits from our Making TalkTalk Simpler programme of 10m.
The costs of repurchasing shares to satisfy incentive schemes is expected to be similar to that incurred inFY13.
We expect to begin making modest cash tax payments during FY14.
Dividend We remain firmly committed to dividend growth whilst also investing in the business.
This commitment is supported by the profitability of our core business, underlying cash generation and overall financial strength.
While we plan to invest substantially in growing our business during FY14, we are reiterating our commitment to grow the dividend by a minimum of 15%.
