Operational Review Chief Executives Review The underlying business performed well as we build on the foundations we have put in place Overview of Groups financial Highlights performance Speciality Food Ingredients sales up 7% to 947 million 8% in constant I am pleased to report that the underlying currency with adjusted operating profit broadly in line 0% in constant business continues to perform well and currency with prior year at 213 million 2012 214 million that, despite having entered the year facing a number of headwinds, including the step Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating profit up by 6% to 182 million 7% in change in fixed costs associated with constant currency the restart of our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in McIntosh, Alabama and our Adjusted diluted earnings per share up 4% to 57.0p 5% in constant currency business transformation initiatives, we have made progress.
5.6% increase proposed for the final dividend to 18.8p, making a total dividend increase of 5.2% to 26.2p Sales for the year were 3,256 million Promising new product launches including our stevia-based, natural, no- 2012 3,088 million, an increase of calorie sweetener, TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener and salt reduction product, 5% 6% in constant currency on the prior SODA-LO Salt Microspheres year with sales in our Speciality Food Ingredients business unit growing by 7% 8% in constant currency to 947 million 2012 887 million.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 3% 4% in constant currency to 358 million 2012 348 million with adjusted operating profit in Speciality Food Ingredients broadly in line with the prior year at 213 million and up 6% 7% in constant currency in Bulk Ingredients at 182 million 2012 172 million.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 4% 4% in constant currency to 329 million 2012 318 million with adjusted diluted earnings per share also up 4% 5% in constant currency to 57.0p 2012 54.7p.
Financial management and balance sheet Our average quarterly cash conversion cycle increased from 36 days to 42 days.
This was driven by an increase in working capital including higher inventory levels in the US due to higher corn prices and aflatoxin, and the requirement for additional sucralose inventory following the restart of production at our McIntosh, Alabama facility.
The key performance indicators KPIs of our financial strength, the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and interest cover, remain well within our internal targets.
At 31 March 2013, the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.0 times 2012 1.1 times, against our upper limit of 2.0 times.
Interest cover on total operations at 31 March 2013 was 11.1 times 2012 11.1 times, again comfortably ahead of our minimum limit of 5.0 times.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 12 Operational Review Operational Review dedicated open innovation web portal Building a platform for 1 Adjusted operating profit www.
com long-term growth m to encourage potential partners to submit During the year, we reached a number proposals aligned with our innovation of important milestones in our business priorities.
In May 2013, following our 358 transformation programme.
348 321 earlier agreement on SODA-LO Salt Microspheres, we broadened our In June 2012, we formally opened our global relationship with Eminate, a subsidiary of Commercial and Food Innovation Centre Nottingham University, with an agreement in Chicago, USA to customers, featuring to develop its hollow microsphere state-of-the-art laboratories, a technology to reduce sodium bicarbonate demonstration kitchen, sensory testing, 2011 2012 2013 in baked goods.
analytical facilities and a pilot plant.
Since then we have seen a step change in the Adjusted diluted earnings We launched a new 30 million eight-year 2 level of customer engagement with a per share venture capital fund on 1 January 2013, significant increase in the number of visits pence building on our existing venture fund to the new facility as well as an improvement activities.
The new fund will invest in in the quality of customer interaction.
start-ups and expansion-stage companies 57.0 In April 2013, the global Commercial and 54.7 in both developed and emerging markets Food Innovation Centre was awarded 45.8 1 in food sciences and enabling technologies.
the prestigious Gold certification by LEED The combination of the new fund and our Leadership in Energy and Environmental internal Open Innovation team will give us Design.
The total investment made to access to the full spectrum of new ideas, develop the new Centre was 33 million, technologies and opportunities in the global including 7 million of costs incurred 2011 2012 2013 food science sector enabling us to deliver during the year.
more innovative solutions to our customers.
1 Continuing operations: before exceptional items and amortisation Our Innovation and Commercial of intangible assets acquired On 17 May 2013, we acquired Biovelop, Development group ICD, continues to through business combinations.
an early-stage manufacturer of oat beta develop the new product development 2 Continuing operations: before glucan.
The acquisition broadens our pipeline across our core platforms of exceptional items, amortisation health and wellness offering and adds of intangible assets acquired Sweeteners, Texturants and Health & through business combinations a clean-label, speciality fibre with strong Wellness.
During the year, ICD supported and post-retirement benefit interest.
health claims to our existing corn-based the launch of six new products including fibre portfolio.
our stevia-based, natural, no-calorie sweetener TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener, We continued to grow our presence in Net debt of 479 million at 31 March 2013 and our salt reduction product, SODA-LO emerging markets.
In December 2012, was slightly higher than at the end of last Salt Microspheres for which the formal we opened our newly upgraded offices year 2012 476 million, reflecting an grant of the US patent was confirmed in and applications centre in Shanghai, which, increase in working capital, capital March 2013.
To drive the successful together with the opening of applications expenditure payments including our commercialisation of our new products, and technical services facilities in Mexico business transformation projects and an we have reorganised and strengthened City and So Paulo last year, has increase in the value of dollar denominated our marketing organisation including the strengthened our ability to service debt as a result of the strengthening of the recruitment of a new Senior Vice President, customers in these regions and expanded US dollar against sterling.
These new facilities include pilot plant equipment for Return on capital employed at 19.8% Our Open Innovation team continues to the production of food and beverage 2012 21.6% was lower than the prior search for opportunities globally to form prototypes which are helping us leverage year driven by an increase in operating partnerships with universities, research our applications know-how and technical assets reflecting the restart of our institutes and start-ups specialising in food expertise to help meet local taste SPLENDA Sucralose facility in McIntosh, science.
In December 2012, we signed preferences and respond rapidly to our Alabama, investment in our business an agreement with Nandi Proteins Limited, customers.
We have also continued to transformation initiatives and higher levels a spin-out from Heriot-Watt University of working capital within the business.
in Edinburgh, to continue developing an early-stage protein ingredient technology for use in the food texturants space.
In January 2013, we launched a new, 1 LEED certification is official recognition that the design, fit-out and operation of a building complies with the requirements prescribed within the LEED Key Performance Indicators: pg 8 rating systems of the US Green Building Council.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 13 Operational Review Chief Executives Review continued expand our go-to-market and technical customers.
We have started to get new Our global Commercial and Food teams in both Asia and Latin America products into the market and expanded Innovation Centre is driving allowing us to broaden our coverage in our health and wellness offering through customer engagement and new these regions in terms of both product the acquisition of new technologies.
Our product development categories and geography.
emerging markets presence and business continues to grow as we leverage the The opening of our new state-of-the-art Global Shared Service Centre and investment we have made in both people global Commercial and Food Innovation IS IT system and infrastructure.
Centre is helping us step up the level of Our global Shared Service Centre in dz, customer interaction and get new Poland is operating well having successfully A key competitive advantage for any products to market faster.
During the completed its first full year of operations company is its people and its culture.
We year, we made solid progress increasing processing financial transactions for our have very talented and dedicated people the number of projects in the new European and US businesses.
at Tate & Lyle working hard to create a product development pipeline and real entrepreneurial and high performance launching new products including our In July 2012, we deployed our new global culture and without them none of what we stevia-based natural, no-calorie IS IT system across the majority of our have achieved during the year would have sweetener, TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener European operations alongside a new set been possible.
I am very grateful for their and our salt reduction product of business processes.
Since then, we support and commitment.
have gained invaluable practical experience operating the new system and processes Key performance indicators KPIs in a live environment.
This has shown us Our KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2013 that while the new system meets the are detailed on pages 8 and 9. day-to-day needs of the business, we need to adapt the design to meet the high-quality Group outlook for the year ending operational capabilities we require, and to 31 March 2014 realise further benefits, some of which have In Speciality Food Ingredients, we expect been identified as a result of operating the to deliver good sales and profit growth with new system.
Accordingly, to allow time to volume growth across all major product develop, build and test the design changes, categories.
we have decided to extend the next phase of the systems deployment into the first In Bulk Ingredients, against a backdrop half of calendar year 2014. of continued corn price volatility, improved During the year, we incurred 43 million bulk sweetener unit margins in the US are of costs on the roll-out of the global Shared Given that the new system is a key enabler expected to offset a softer start in US bulk Service Centre and the common IS IT of our global operating model, it warrants sweetener volumes and lower isoglucose platform, taking the total costs to date taking the additional time.
As a result, margins in Europe.
Profits within Bulk on these projects to 78 million.
the total investment in the global Shared Ingredients are expected to be more evenly Service Centre and IS IT system is distributed between the first and second Conclusion expected to increase by 4560 million, half than in the prior year.
Three years ago we set out to build a dependent on the final date of high-quality business, one capable of implementation, bringing the total expected Overall, we expect to deliver another year generating sustained growth over the long investment in these projects to around of profitable growth.
We are on track to deliver this but 120135 million.
Based on our current we are not there yet.
While we have more estimates, including the benefits that have Javed Ahmed work to do, I believe we now have a solid already been delivered from these projects, Chief Executive foundation from which we can build.
we continue to target a three-year cash 29 May 2013 payback on the total investment following Our new Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA implementation of the IS IT system across and global network of satellite laboratories the business.
are working well, providing the ideal environment for us to get closer to our Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 14
