Chief Executives Review 2013 was a year of significant improvement, fundamentals.
Most importantly, where both the quality of our investments and we have continued to make significant the underlying improvement in the housing investment for the future, adding market contributed to an improvement across to our short term landbank and strategic land We have delivered a strong all of our key performance metrics.
pipeline and increasing the level of training and development of staff, at all levels, from In a UK housing market showing significant financial performance and site trades to office technical roles.
This recovery for the first time in five years, we have strong platform and our clear operating continued to develop our strongly improved our operating performance, and financial strategy leave the Group well increasing operating profits by 39%.
The positioned to continue to make further business for the future.
business is starting to earn a healthy level progress in the years ahead.
of returns as the investments we have made from 2009 onwards are starting to deliver.
Financial performance Pete Redfern We have the right organisational structure Group revenue in 2013 increased by 276.5 Chief Executive in place for the long term, with 24 regional million to 2,295.5 million 2012: 2,019.0 businesses across the country, including a million from Group completions of 11,814 growing London presence, all of which are 2012: 11,042, including joint ventures.
The in areas in which people want to live and gross profit in the year has increased by 26.1% which are supported by strong economic to 449.3 million 2012: 356.3 million.
Operating profit is defined as profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations before finance costs and exceptional items, after share of results of joint ventures.
2012 has been restated following the adoption of IAS19 Employee Benefits amended 2011, with changes in the presentation of certain costs relating to the defined benefit schemes.
Retur n on net operating assets is defined as operating profit divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating assets, which is defined as capital employed plus intangibles less tax balances.
Tangible net assets per share is defined as net assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, divided by the number of shares in issue at the period end.
Asset turn is defined as total revenue divided by the average of opening and closing net operating assets.
10 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The gross profit for the year includes 45.4 have the best people in the industry and we Cultural principles million 2012: 85.1 million of positive want to make Taylor Wimpey the employer contribution, on completions from sites with of choice and establish a culture where If something is worth doing, its worth previously impaired inventory.
Group operating individuals can realise success.
One of our profit increased significantly by 86.8 million, priorities in 2014 will be continuing with the doing properly.
or 38.4%, to 312.9 million 2012: 226.1 work and investment we have put into our If we make a mistake, we put it right.
million, resulting in a Group operating teams and the future of the business through margin of 13.6% 2012: 11.2%.
More information We are competitive and dont accept operating assets grew by 15.7% and as at on our training and development schemes second best.
31 December stood at 1,999.6 million can be found on pages 20 and 34.
We will not compromise in ensuring 2012: 1,727.9 million.
Group asset turn In autumn 2013, I and some of our senior that everyone leaves our sites safe increased to 1.23 times in 2013 2012: 1.19 management team presented an update and well.
times, with both faster sales rates and our on our business strategy at a series of road focus on capital efficiency contributing to We behave with integrity, are honest show sessions available to all of our staff across the positive performance and offsetting the and forthright and support each other.
the 24 regional businesses and on site.
Over impact of a lower pension liability.
These 3,200 of our employees attended the sessions, We strive to enhance the environment improvements resulted in Group return on net which provided an update on progress made and local community and to run our operating assets increasing substantially by against the objectives set in 2011 and priorities business in a way that is sustainable.
for the next couple of years.
The sessions Knowledge and information are key, we We have continued to strengthen our balance covered key employee issues such as diversity take our decisions on fact not emotion.
sheet and to reduce net debt, and we end the and employee development and skills.
This year with a net cash position of 5.4 million, was a great opportunity for me to hear first We value individuals from diverse driven by both operational improvement and hand their feedback on these issues and more.
backgrounds and aim to develop the timing of land payments 31 December This was very successful and I was pleased potential to the mutual benefit of the 2012: 59.0 million net debt.
that 93% of those who attended thought they individual and the business.
were adequately and clearly updated on the See pages 36 to 39 for the full financial detail in progress made since 2011.
Our people I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Kevins words of thanks to the teams and the individuals across our business.
I believe we Group Management Team The Group Management Team GMT, which is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Company, comprises: Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Maria Pilfold Fergus Peter Truscott Peter Andrew Ingrid Skinner Chief Executive Group Finance Group Legal Group Human McConnell Divisional Director of Land Central London, Director Director and Resources Divisional Chairman, South and Planning Managing Director Company Director Chairman, North Secretary Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the Ryans role covers James is Maria has Fergus oversees Peter heads our Peter oversees Ingrid oversees GMT, my all areas of responsible for responsibility for the 10 regional South Division, our Strategic our Central responsibilities Finance, including our Company all areas of Human businesses within which contains Land team and London business include key tax, pensions and Secretariat Resources, our North Division.
14 regional is leading our unit.
strategic and treasury, as well department, as including He is also the businesses, response to operational as Information well as overseeing recruitment, project sponsor and also has the evolving UK decisions, Technology IT.
all legal matters benefits, talent for our new IT responsibility planning system.
corporate Ryan also plays from plot and performance system.
for our business responsibility and an active part in conveyancing management.
our Investor to land buying.
co. uk 11 Chief Executives Review continued UK operational environment UK national house prices increased to Our strategic objectives are: From the very beginning of 2013, we saw 174k 2012: 163k during 2013, according to an improvement in customer sentiment the Nationwide House Price Index, and led in Earn top quartile operating margins.
and an increase in sales rate as customers, the early part by the South East and Midlands, already feeling more confident, were able to but with most regions in the UK experiencing Deliver at least a 15% return on net gain access to a healthier mortgage market, an increase by the end of the year.
operating assets through the cycle.
helped through Funding for Lending and a Our strategy more willing and competitive banking system.
Grow net assets by 10% per annum Whilst short term conditions have improved on average through the cycle.
Underscoring the importance of housebuilding through 2013, our strategy remains unchanged to the UK economy, the Government and our focus is clearly set on the long term Our strategy is underpinned by our key implemented Help to Buy, the most significant health and sustainability of the business.
drivers of value set out on page 14. programme to date, from the beginning of Our strategic objectives are: the second quarter, effectively replacing the FirstBuy programme and having a quick and Earn top quartile operating margins Managing the cycle direct impact on the affordability of mortgages.
Deliver at least a 15% return on net Following the implementation of Help to Buy, Our views about managing the cycle have operating assets through the cycle not changed.
Housebuilding is a cyclical we saw a significant step up in both interest Grow net assets by 10% per annum levels and sales rates.
In 2013, the total value industry, and whilst sensible measures from on average through the cycle Government, interest rate setters and of mortgage approvals for home purchases Our strategy is underpinned by our key was 113,170 million 2012: 90,953 million regulators can help to reduce the scale of that strategic principles, or drivers of value, cyclicality, we do not believe it can be according to the Bank of England data, with set out on page 14. property transactions 15.0% higher at removed completely.
Therefore, whilst we remain focused on delivering strong returns 1,071,220 2012: 931,790.
We want to earn returns, but how we do and growth over the short term, we are also this is equally important to us.
Our cultural According to the House Builders Federation mindful of mid and long term risk.
This means principles underpin everything we do.
These HBF, planning approvals increased by 34% that we need to take a more active approach are set out on page 11. to 185,266 in the year to September 2013 to managing the cycle than has been 2012: 138,441.
This remains significantly less Our business model is based on a value cycle historically undertaken in the business, than the number of homes needed on an and each component of the value cycle is or the sector.
annual basis, highlighting the fact that planning important in order to achieve our strategic remains the fundamental constraint on the size objectives.
Each element of our business of the industry and our business.
model is detailed in full on pages 16 to 21.
Market data We continually monitor where we are in the cycle using external indicators to assess the macro environment.
Gross secured lending Average annual Housing starts, Mortgage Earnings ratio house price change Great Britain 1997 2013 1997 2013 1997 2013 1997 2013 Source: Halifax Source: Bank of England Source: Nationwide Source: Communities and The mortgage earnings ratio provides an The correlation between the gross secured There has been significant variation in the Local Government indication of the affordability of housing, lending chart above and the housing starts average annual house price change since Total housing starts do not exhibit the same taking into account the underlying chart right reects the impact of restricted 1997, with very strong growth from 2001 to strong growth as house prices in the period mortgage interest rates.
credit availability on the housing market.
12 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The charts on page 12 show some of the key average of about 6,000 consented plots a external measures we follow closely and will year, and completions from these sites to be change depending on the stage of the cycle.
in excess of the 30% target that we have set.
However, the housing cycle is influenced by The combination of our existing short term We see significant cash many factors and these should not be viewed landbank and the strategic pipeline gives us in isolation.
the confidence that we can grow to our returns as a feature of Cash generation in 2014 and beyond optimum scale, despite the limits of the UK the current stage of the We can be a very cash generative business planning environment, allowing us to focus on and how we can best use that cash to achieve driving value both through the conversion of cycle and anticipate the optimum balance of delivering the best the strategic pipeline and our work to bring quality of returns whilst managing risk to forward development on our controlled sites making further significant protect the business is key.
This will, of course, cash returns annually to still require funding.
However, as we move We have seen a progressive return to normal from a phase where we have been significantly land market conditions quarter by quarter, shareholders from 2016. growing our overall land positions to a more however, they have not yet returned to the neutral replacement phase, the funding levels of competition that we have seen in the requirement will decrease and this, together past.
This has facilitated a prolonged period of with our increasing profitability as delivery from strong acquisition margins compared to the post-2009 sites grows, means we will be range we have seen historically.
During 2013 believe that zero debt or a positive cash generating significant cash surplus to our we continued to see a significant number of position is a necessary or efficient way to funding requirements on an annual basis from attractive opportunities in the land market and deliver value from the business.
We remain the second half of 2014 onwards.
we were able to use our expertise to capitalise comfortable with the guidance previously given on the current reduced level of competition to Dividend policy of a maximum of 30-40% of gearing including invest in land that will deliver strong financial We have always been clear that our dividend land creditors throughout the cycle.
We added 18,770 plots policy, whether maintenance or special returns, Outlook to the short term consented landbank in 2013 is an inherent part of our strategy.
Our We have continued to build on our excellent through the acquisition of 9,560 plots in the maintenance dividend policy remains order book position, which stood at land market and the conversion of 9,210 plots unchanged at between 1% and 2% of net 1,491 million, excluding year to date from the strategic pipeline.
This is a very strong assets, and this will continue to be paid in May completions as at 23 February 2014 level of additions, and takes our short term and September of each year.
As set out 24 February 2013: 1,076 million.
We consented landbank into the range of between above, we have now reached the point where are around 55% forward sold for 2014 70,000 and 75,000 plots, which we see as a the strategy is creating surplus cash and we completions as at 23 February 2014, good steady state to deliver our optimum will therefore pay a special dividend of c. 50 giving us good visibility and security of sustainable business size.
million in 2014 and 200 million in 2015, the the performance for the year ahead.
latter subject to shareholder approval.
These We are still seeing attractive new opportunities payments will be made in July of each year, In the first two months of 2014, we have in the land market today and will continue to in line with our working capital requirements.
seen the increased interest levels convert to invest in high-quality opportunities, however reservations, with both the North and South The charts on page 22 show how the value we do expect that over the next few years divisions of our business following similar the consented land market will naturally created in the business has been distributed trends.
We are confident that we will continue to key areas as a percentage of revenue in continue to tighten and therefore we do not to perform well in the favourable short term expect to reinvest all of the cash we generate.
2012 and 2013. environment and that the disciplined processes In addition, we will continue to focus on We see significant cash returns as a feature of we have in place will allow us to capture any achieving planning consents from our strategic the current stage of the cycle and anticipate additional market value and grow operating land pipeline.
By their nature, strategic pipeline making further significant cash returns annually margin by at least an additional 200-300 basis sites are long term and we are in continual to shareholders from 2016. points in 2014. dialogue with local authorities across the UK to try and bring these sites forward for We do not believe that it is in our shareholders development.
Over the next few years, we interest to use significant debt in order to expect the strategic pipeline to provide an generate cash returns but we also do not Taylor Wimpey plc www.
