14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review In 2013, we delivered a good, solid set of results whilst expanding the Q&A Groups footprint.
Focused on delivering value Michael Tobin CEO Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15 able to switch from one provider to another or add The data centre industry additional networks within the data centre with minimal disruption.
Can you explain the core fundamentals of the data Q Our customers demand exibility and control when centre industry?
choosing their IT service providers.
At TelecityGroup our A Data centres provide secure operational environments carrier-neutrality means we do not have predetermined for organisations IT and telecoms equipment.
af liations with any speci c network operators, vendors or service providers, in fact these companies are our The data centre industry is diverse.
level data centres are buildings that have within them electrical and mechanical infrastructure that The wide range of network services available in TelecityGroup data centres can meet the most extensive creates an environment in which computing and telecommunications equipment can run without and diverse of connectivity needs, whether its speci c geographical coverage, segment-speci c or xed and interruption.
As such, they provide resilient power supplies and cooling to this equipment.
Different groups of operators run data centres.
Q What is TelecityGroups role in the industry?
Telecoms companies often operate data centres to support their networks and service offerings: propertyA TelecityGroup operates highly-connected facilities focused companies operate data centres to service the in strategic internet hub cities across Europe.
wholesale IT outsourcing needs of large organisations: The presence of multiple national and international and IT services companies operate them to supply communications services operators in our data services to their customers.
centres provides a wide range of connectivity options for customers.
TelecityGroup runs carrier-neutral data centres.
Our data centres are places in which separate networks that make up the internet meet and where bandwidthQ So what is a carrier-neutral data centre?
intensive applications, content and information and A In addition to providing space and facilities for customer cloud services are hosted.
As such, they are important IT infrastructure, carrier-neutral data centres provide network hubs, or enabling environments, of the organisations with direct connections to the widest digital economy.
choice of networks, mobile operators, Internet Service Providers ISPs, Internet Exchanges, Content Carrier-neutral data centres in Europe continue to Distribution Networks CDNs and other network experience strong growth in demand.
This growth is service providers, enabling them to build their own driven by organisations, such as providers of internet communication networks to deliver the optimum end content and cloud services, which look for premium, user experiences.
highly-connected data centre capacity to support the services they offer to their end users.
The richness of connectivity in our data centres creates During 2013, we remained focused on developing the ideal environment in which our network-hungry customer ecosystems can ourish.
our position as a provider of choice for organisations looking to exploit the opportunities in the European Network service providers effectively form internet or digital economy.
connectivity hubs in our data centres.
Such hubs are ideal locations for organisations that need access to Q What are ecosystems within a data centre?
The connectivity providers install their network routers in the data centre, A TelecityGroups internet hubs enable the formation of enabling customers to connect into their services quickly various ecosystems within our data centres, often and easily without the need for costly private networks formed around groups of sector-speci c companies.
outside of the data centre.
Ecosystems evolve due to organisations seeking to be colocated within the same facility in order to connect Depending on business needs, customers choose to and transact with other community members and use multiple carriers to build in redundancy and ensure customers.
Over time, physical links, or cross-connects resilience, or simply to secure the appropriate network multiply, creating interconnected hubs of commercial, performance required for their applications at the best digital relationships between Telecity customers across price.
As our customers business needs grow they are the Telecity estate.
16 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review continued Q Why are connectivity, internet exchanges and Q What is driving growth for carrier-neutral data peering so important?
An internet exchange point IXP is a physical A The growth in demand for carrier-neutral data centres is A combination of network switches and routers: a public closely linked to the growth in internet usage.
junction point for carriers telecoms networks service Growth in internet traf c is driven by the increasing providers and ISPs to exchange internet traf c. proliferation of connected people and devices.
Networks and other organisations connect to the IXP Examples include increasing broadband penetration, infrastructure directly from their own hardware within data intensive smartphone usage and mobile usage the data centre.
in general, digital content and the growth of cloud At these exchange points, IXP customers or members computing effectively on-demand computing resource mostly communication service providers accept accessed over a network.
From a system performance traf c from each other and agree to carry one anothers and commercial perspective, carrier-neutral data data across their network without charge.
There are centres are typically selected by organisations as the typically just one or two major IXPs in each city market, location of choice for their  with the largest of those in Europe being the Amsterdam computer hardware due to the range of networks Internet Exchange AMS-IX, the London Internet available to which they can connect.
Exchange LINX, the German Internet Exchange fide-CIX and the Swedish Internet Exchange Netnod.
Q What new developments have you seen in the TelecityGroup hosts these and other major IXPs industry during 2013?
By and large, we have seen a continuation of previous A Our acquisition of PLIX in 2013 brought with it one of the trends, with an increasing array of social, entertainment fastest growing internet exchanges.
We will continue to and business functions moving on-line and driving operate PLIX IXP as a stand-alone independent entity.
continued demand for data centres.
As part of this, we are starting to see widespread adoption of public Network service providers also have private peering cloud products, which is driving further outsourcing agreements between each other which enable direct and bene ting the data centre industry.
network-to-network voice and data traf c exchange.
Connecting into an IXP or using a physical data centre TelecityGroup in 2013 cross-connect and peering directly with another operator enables organisations to reduce their overall communications costs, while improving Q Are you satis ed with TelecityGroups performance network performance and therefore quality of in 2013?
A We made some substantial progress in 2013.
Although it In summary, the networks that make up the internet was a slightly tougher year in terms of trading than other can be seen as a combination of the public networks recent years, we delivered a good, solid set of results, exchanging information at the IXPs, and private peering while expanding the Groups footprint.
I am particularly between network providers, most of which happens pleased with our geographic expansion as it positions us within data centres.
well in three markets that I believe will be important for our future growth.
TelecityGroups data centre ecosystem evolution Creating the next virtuous circle of enterprise to cloud Cloud companies Enterprise Content Virtuous companies circle Carriers content Few Developed carriers carriers Time Evolution of opportunity Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17 Cloud-IX developing cloud hubs in TelecityGroup data centres Customers connect directly on a private dedicated network into leading global and regional cloud and IT service providers hosted across the TelecityGroup estate, enabling cost-effective, secure and high-performance solutions Cloud-IX enables customers to deploy private, hybrid and public clouds within the TelecityGroup data centres Cloud-IX helps cloud service providers CSP to sell more easily into other organisations, making TelecityGroup data centres attractive locations for business development Cloud-IX will ensure that TelecityGroup can continue its evolution as a relevant and highly attractive data centre location in a world where cloud is an increasingly common part of enterprise IT For customers this will offer a compelling opportunity to leverage the cloud capabilities across the Group in an ef cient, secure and scalable way CSPs including... iland Limited applications Public Internet Enterprise Fujitsu e. g. trading, video AWS end user conferencing, medical End users can connect to the cloud over the public internet but CSC this gives a limited SLA, high latency and security concerns.
Outsourcery Enterprise Cloud-IX end user in Unlimited applications Cloud-IX offers a private, low latency, Telecity data SLA backed connection which centre guarantees security and performance.
Q Did churn play a major factor in the year?
We made good progress engaging with our larger customers more strategically to enable improved longer-term A Churn in our customer base did increase slightly during planning for their midto long-term connected data centre 2013.
This was driven mainly by some consolidation in requirements: we put more energy into developing our our customer base and the expiry of some contracts, proposition to capture growth driven by the evolving cloud which were signed four or five years ago.
We dont tend to services dynamic: and we continued the preparation for lose customers to competitors, but we have had a few the roll-out of an improved customer online experience to customers that had taken too much capacity and have match that superior level of service which customers enjoy trimmed requirements at contract renewal time.
in our facilities across Europe.
Finally, we moved quickly to integrate and promote our new facilities and locations to Q Did your customer dynamics change?
A Our customer base includes most of the leading Q What are you doing to ensure you capture the growth in telecoms, internet, IT and media companies, together demand for cloud services?
with other organisations that run online functions.
We get Our data centres have always been attractive locations A most of our growth from this existing customer base and for cloud services operators: such operators need highlyso our customer mix doesnt tend to radically change connected, resilient and secure locations in which to host during a year.
We did however win new customers and as their IT infrastructure in order to offer the service levels in previous years, they tend to be organisations that are back to their end users.
migrating more functions to online platforms, or newer entrants into the European market.
Our top 300 customers by revenue % What is your go to market plan?
Q A As I mentioned, a lot of our growth comes from our existing customer base, so ongoing service quality is 2013 11 36 19 15 14 5 at least as important as our go to market plan.
That said, during 2013 our go to market plan has focused Cloud and hosting on the core strategy of building, operating and acquiring Connectivity highly connected premium quality data centres in 12.0 45.0 21.0 11.0 11.0 Internet content strategic internet growth markets: growing our business Financial by lling these data centres with customers, both new Systems integrators IT and existing, who have a need for wide connectivity Other choice, premium quality IT hosting environments, and access to the developing ecosystems across our estate.
18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review continued As a result, our data centres across Europe host many of SadeceHosting, acquired in May, is the leading provider the leading global and regional cloud operators and we of data centre and hosted services in Turkey.
Sadece are seeing our facilities become cloud hubs just as they offers a range of data centre and hosting services and have historically been connectivity hubs.
currently operates a 0.4MW data centre, with a further 0.4MW of expansion already underway.
In the autumn we launched a new and innovative service platform, Cloud-IX, connecting customers and cloud Turkey is one of the fastest growing digital economies service providers in a simple, exible, scalable and in the world, due both to its large and rapidly growing cost-effective way.
Cloud-IX helps create commercial domestic digital economy and its unique strategic value in the cloud.
It enables customers to build the most location between Europe and Asia.
exible and scalable hybrid cloud solutions and gives Although currently smaller than the Groups other cloud service providers direct access to our diverse markets in terms of developed data centre capacity, international customer base see diagram on page 17. it has the fastest internet traf c growth rate in Europe So, by colocating their IT infrastructure in a and offers compelling growth dynamics.
Entry into the TelecityGroup data centre they can take advantage of market enhances our medium to long-term growth Cloud-IX and connect directly to some of the worlds potential, bringing management expertise and a strong largest, most innovative, cloud providers by establishing customer base in this exciting region.
dedicated network connections from their private or The combination of our data centre expertise and managed infrastructure into any of the cloud providers Sadeces service leadership creates a highly attractive that are part of the platform.
choice for customers, both from the domestic Turkish Ultimately, Cloud-IX enables our customers to reduce market and international businesses seeking to grow in network costs, improve service performance and ensure this region.
Located in So a, acquired in September, 3DC is Bulgarias leading independent data centre provider.
Its You had another acquisitive year in 2013.
Can you Q high quality facility provides a strategic location in the explain the drivers behind this?
Balkans with access to markets in the EU, Turkey and the A The geographic locations in which TelecityGroup Caucasus, offering compelling growth opportunities in operates are strategic international internet hubs and, the region.
as such, offer attractive growth opportunities for us.
Bulgaria is one of the fastest growing internet hubs in During 2013, in addition to ongoing investment and Europe with an average annual growth of over 100% in opening new capacity in our existing city locations we internet traf c since 2008.
The 3DC customer roster entered the new markets of Istanbul, So a and Warsaw includes some of the leading global internet and content through the acquisitions of SadeceHosting, 3DC businesses who have been keen to establish a physical and PLIX.
Let me explain the rationale behind each presence in the leading highly-connected data centre.
The combination of the major internet backbones in 3DC and these major internet businesses has helped to establish the location as one of the fastest growing sites for internet traf c in Europe.
Top 10 European Internet Exchange Points Throughput Throughput Gbit s Gbit s Short Name Name Country Established Members average maximum fide-CIX Deutscher Commercial Internet Exchange Germany 1995 500 1,637 2,865 AMS-IX Amsterdam Internet Exchange Netherlands 1997 613 1,562 2,539 LINX London Internet Exchange United Kingdom 1994 494 1,271 1,891 DataIX Data IX Russia, Ukraine 2009 198 756 1,300 MSK-IX MSK-IX Russia 1995 365 615 1,323 W-IX W-IX LTD Russia, Ukraine 2008 161 404 653 Netnod Netnod Internet Exchange in Sweden Sweden 1997 91 321 455 NL-ix Netherlands Internet Exchange Netherlands 2002 396 273 460 PLIX Polish Internet eXchange Poland 2006 233 200 366 UA-IX Ukrainian Internet Exchange Network Ukraine 2000 123 197 238 Sources: Internet Exchange Point websites, Euro-IX.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19 PLIX, acquired in December, is the most connected Over the past few years weve grown and expanded independent colocation business in Warsaw, Poland, successfully into new territories but this has meant which also incorporates the largest Polish internet our reporting lines have become more complicated.
PLIX customers include major international Ive been keen to nd a way of simplifying our structure and domestic leaders in communications, cloud, so we can continue to grow ef ciently, ensuring our content and applications, underlining the strategic efforts remain focused in the right areas, building the importance of the data centre.
business and winning and serving our customers.
The PLIX internet exchange, meanwhile, is experiencing To this end we are now structuring ourselves slightly strong growth and has some 233 members and differently and I have asked three of our country 366Gbits s maximum bandwidth throughput, making it managers to take on additional responsibility looking one of the largest such exchanges in Europe.
Poland is after three new regional groupings of Western Europe, fast becoming an extremely important European and incorporating France, Germany, Netherlands and Italy, international internet hub and, like Istanbul and So a, Emerging Markets incorporating Ireland, Bulgaria, Turkey is a location in which our existing customers were keen and Poland and Nordics comprising Finland and Sweden.
for us to develop a physical presence.
These changes are essential for us to meet the evolving The integration of all three acquisitions is progressing pan-European needs of our customer base and will well.
The technical expertise of the management team, enable our business to scale.
As our customers become in particular, brings considerable strength to our more global in outlook we need to be more joined up, business and we look forward to the new companies consistent in approach, offering customers a single, making an important contribution to TelecityGroups uniformly high standard of service experience.
Making growth in the longer term.
the appropriate business decisions at the right time for the long-term growth prospects of our business is what What were the key operational developments has enabled us to stay at the forefront of the market.
This is another evolution in our business and will help us maintain our leadership position.
A We continued to bring capacity online across Europe in response to customer demand, opening 12.4MW in total.
Q What are your near and mid-term priorities for 2014 In addition to this, we are committed to operating our and beyond?
data centres to the highest standards.
International A certi cations demonstrate that best practice and TelecityGroup has been central to the European digital high quality processes are central to our business.
In essence, we have been Customers can benchmark our commitment to quality the home of the internet in Europe.
Looking forward, our through our adherence to established and recognised key aim is to retain this position as the internet grows global standards.
and evolves, while at the same time creating value for our shareholders.
We intend to do this by continuing During 2013 we maintained certi cations in a wide range to ensure that we have the right infrastructure in of areas including information security management, the right places, the right customer service and the quality management, environmental, health and safety right customers.
We also started to roll out new business continuity management processes, which will continue through 2014.
Our first report of greenhouse gas GHG emissions in line with UK mandatory reporting regulation is provided on pages 55 to 59 where more details about our energy Michael Tobin OBE management strategy and quality standards can also CEO be found.
11 February 2014 Q What changes have you made to your operational leadership team?
A In our 15 year history we have become the recognised leader in the European data centre market.
We have grown successfully, both organically and by acquisition, and this growth has been built on the core values of customer service, excellence in the data centre and integrity and transparency in everything we do.
I believe we have the best people and best data centres which in turn help us attract the most dynamic customers.
