OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3 Report from the Chief Executive Philip Clarke Chief Executive I am pleased to have this opportunity to report on the past year, during which we have taken Ive worked in retailing for some significant business decisions and laid down some important building blocks for the future.
nearly 40 years but never I will share my perceptions of the year under the following headings: in that time has there been The wider context adapting to lead the digital future a period of such profound The business in 2012 13 a year of transition Setting financial disciplines for the future and rapid change as I see Driving future growth and returns today.
The digital age is Culture Management transforming not just the The wider context adapting to lead the digital future way people shop, but also It has been clear for some time that we are seeing a seismic shift in our industry and its pace is accelerating.
In 2012 global e-commerce activity reached $1 trillion.
Ive worked in retailing the way they live their lives.
for nearly 40 years but never in that time has there been a period of such profound and rapid change as I see today.
The digital age is transforming not just the way people shop, but also the way they live their lives.
The opportunities this is creating are exciting.
It provides the potential for Tesco to make customers lives easier: to enable them to shop in whichever way suits them best: and it enables us to offer them new products and services.
This plays to our strengths.
Since Tesco was founded, we have always been pioneers and innovators in retailing.
Our central focus, our culture, is and has been to lead in understanding and delivering what customers want, in the way they want it, at the time they want it.
Uniquely among our peers, we have a profitable dotcom grocery business.
From drivethrough Grocery Click & Collect in the UK to our virtual shopping walls on the subway in South Korea, we are introducing exciting innovations to improve the customer shopping trip.
Thanks to Clubcard and dunnhumby we have unique insights into how our customers behaviour is changing.
Our new conversation with customers through a variety of channels is about listening to what they want, to how theyre living their lives today, and then adapting and building the business accordingly: as we have said for years, Every Little Helps.
com ar2013 to hear more from Philip Clarke and other members of the leadership team.
4 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued So we are exceptionally well-placed to thrive in this new era of retailing.
However, to grasp A truly multichannel the opportunity we must adapt because it will require a different type of business, with business one which offers a different type of relationship with our customers, and a new set of capabilities.
customers the ability to We have already begun this process of adaptation.
shop anywhere, anyhow A year ago, I signalled the end of the space race and a change in focus.
I indicated that our future investment would be less about new large stores, and that it would be more focused and any time will be more on multichannel retailing and on smaller formats.
likely to become a winner A year on, I am even more certain that this is the right approach for us to take.
The future of in the new era than one retailing is multichannel because, in this increasingly complex and volatile world, consumers are looking for simplicity and for brands they can trust.
A truly multichannel business one which concentrates purely which offers customers the ability to shop anywhere, anyhow and any time will be more likely to become a winner in the new era than one which concentrates purely on one channel on one channel or another.
Our stores are a vital part of this multichannel vision.
Tesco has a superb portfolio of welllocated stores in all of our markets, but adapting to a digital future means harnessing this great asset to the changing requirements of the digital age.
This will require rethinking how we use the space in our stores, how we offer and deliver what we sell, how we interface with our customers and much else besides.
I will return to the specifics of what we are doing in some of these areas below.
The business in 2012 13 a year of transition This years performance was principally the result of three things in combination: the decision we took in early 2012 to reset our margin in the UK and invest 1 billion in improving our offer for customers: the continuing economic challenges our customers around the world are facing, particularly in and around the Eurozone: and the impact of legislation restricting opening hours in South Korea, our largest market outside the UK.
I have reflected on the work we have done over the first two years of my tenure as CEO and it is clear to me that much of our effort has been about removing barriers to progress.
The business has delivered many years of growth and good returns, but was in danger of being inhibited from further sustainable progress by an attachment to initiatives and strategies which, while they served us well in the past, need to be adapted to deliver growth in a more economically challenged and rapidly changing world.
Consequently we have had to tackle a number of issues which needed to be addressed before we could move the business forward.
This work has entailed some tough and at times painful decisions and while it is not finished, I am confident we have already tackled the biggest issues.
These changes were often difficult to face up to, complex to implement and they have required a great deal of hard work by many people, some of whom have been directly affected by the decisions.
By way of reminder, in a little over 18 months we have: 1.
Decided to exit markets in which we saw no prospect of acceptable investment returns in an appropriate time frame Japan and the United States: 2.
Devised and progressed the comprehensive 1 billion investment plan to Build a Better Tesco in the UK, resetting our margins to fund the scale and pace of change required: 3.
Put an end to the big store space race placing a much greater emphasis on growth through both digital and convenience retailing, wherever we operate: 4.
Reviewed our entire UK property pipeline to ensure it is appropriate for our future needs and valued accordingly.
Going forward this will mean less capital commitment to property development and also less asset divestment: 5.
Reflected the new global economic reality by reviewing and moderating the rate of expansion in some large economies such as China and sharply reduced spending in some of our European markets: and 6.
Focused Tesco Bank on the smooth migration of customer accounts to our platforms, strong governance, risk management and increasingly on preparing it for its key role in our multichannel future.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5 These decisive actions are necessary in order to ensure sustainable longer-term growth.
I am acutely aware that withdrawing from the US and writing down the value of property developments no longer appropriate for the future have had a significant impact.
It is time to act and I believe this work has cleared the way for the business now to move forward.
Having tackled these issues, Tesco is a more focused business, which can apply all of its considerable resources and energies to meeting the challenges and grasping the opportunities created by the changes taking place in our industry today.
These actions may have been the most visible, and therefore the most tangible, signs of change to the outside world but within Tesco weve been making other important changes to prepare the business for the future putting it on track for sustainable growth and returns.
Setting financial disciplines for the future Not only have we started on the journey of transforming our business to enable it to move Everything we are doing forward as a leader in the new digital world, we are also fundamentally changing the reflects my determination financial profile of the Group.
to deliver shareholder value, The Tesco of the future will pursue more focused growth, consume less capital and generate more free cash flow.
Making this transformation in all its aspects will of course not be an appropriate balance without its challenges and the clearest evidence of this can be seen in the first reduction between investing for in profits of the Group for two decades, which we reported on in April.
future growth, and Everything we are doing reflects my determination to deliver shareholder value, an appropriate balance between investing for future growth, and delivering sustainable returns delivering sustainable for our shareholders.
I want to be very clear: if there is one lesson to be learned from the past it is the importance of capital discipline and this marks the start of a new era of capital returns for our shareholders.
We are confident we can deliver attractive and sustainable returns within a framework where capital expenditure falls to around 3.5% to 4% of sales.
For our investors, this means they can expect mid-single digit trading profit growth and return on capital employed within a range of 12% to 15%.
The fundamental change in our approach to new space I described earlier also has implications for our sale and leaseback programme.
Two years ago, we reviewed the programme and announced a steady reduction in the level of divestments, in order to ensure that any property profits released were matched to the level of new profit created by development activities.
Given that we have significantly reduced the amount of these activities going forward, we believe that it is appropriate to accelerate the scaling back of the sale and leaseback programme, such that it is unlikely to make a material contribution after the next few years.
The outcomes which we have laid out for investors will be achieved through disciplined investment, focused on those existing markets where we see the best opportunity for significant growth and returns.
Driving future growth and returns For me as your CEO, driving sustainable growth within this new financial framework is about three priorities.
These are not new areas for us but they each have the capacity to be the engines of growth for the Group for years to come: i Continue to strengthen the UK business ii Drive sustainable growth through multichannel leadership iii Pursue disciplined international growth Whilst the past year has not been without some significant challenges, we have made progress on these priorities: 6 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued i Continue to strengthen the UK business Having grasped the nettle A year ago we announced a plan to Build a Better Tesco in the UK.
In last years Annual and decided to reinvest in Report I described how getting our business at home back to leading was the single most important objective for Tesco.
Having grasped the nettle and decided to reinvest in the UK the UK business in early 2012, business in early 2012, we have seen a pleasing response from customers and consequently we have seen a pleasing the performance of the business is now markedly better.
The Building a Better Tesco plan is firmly on track.
response from customers I am proud of the work our teams have done to improve the look and feel of certain stores, and consequently the to develop new products and to reformulate existing product ranges, whilst delivering better performance of the business service and availability for customers.
We want to be the best value, most convenient and integrated, most relevant and personalised retailer and we are making good progress.
We invested 200 million to have the equivalent of 8,000 more colleagues in-store and also provided customer service and specialist training for nearly 250,000 team members to help them serve customers better.
Consequently, our customer ratings of service and staff helpfulness have improved and customer complaint numbers have fallen sharply.
We have made a good start and there will be more progress in 2013.
We refreshed 300 stores, representing almost a quarter of our space, delivering a warmer look and feel and better standards of presentation in our fresh food departments.
Our price image with customers has also improved, and we have supplemented our work on pricing with stronger, personalised Clubcard mailings and, more recently, the introduction of our Tesco Price Promise, which aims to reassure customers that they will never be disadvantaged on price when they shop with us.
On ranging, the strong performance of the relaunched Everyday Value range has continued and we have put significant investment into improving 3,500 core Tesco own-label lines, with an emphasis on fresh food categories.
We have made fundamental changes to the way we communicate with our customers, with the most prominent early change being the appointment of a new lead advertising agency, Wieden Kennedy.
Our first new advertising campaign, which began last Christmas, was very well received by customers.
Our store strategy is Food First which means a more targeted, less space-intensive approach to general merchandise in-store, with Tesco Direct becoming better equipped to offer customers the much greater breadth and depth of range that the online platform provides so well.
It also means other changes to our stores such as clothing becoming more prominent and services taking more space.
This means, for example, allocating more space to Click & Collect so that we are giving customers the compelling convenience of being able to order what they want online and pick up in-store.
Upgrading our in-store dining offer will also utilise more of our existing space.
We aim to give customers shopping in our stores the kind of food experience they have when they visit shopping malls or high streets.
Well do this through the investments we have made in new family-friendly restaurants, coffee shops and artisan bakeries such as Giraffe, Harris Hoole and Euphorium.
They will be increasingly available around our network of larger stores in the UK.
Ive been particularly encouraged to see that the innovative spirit, that desire to be first for customers which made Tesco what it is, has also flourished in this period of rapid change.
A good example of this is in our dotcom grocery business where the roll-out of our drivethrough Click & Collect modules in 150 of our car parks helped our online sales grow 12.8% which was faster than the market, in which we already have a high share.
The launch of our Delivery Saver subscription service in May 2012 also contributed to our outperformance.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7 Our UK business is more competitive, performance relative to the market has improved and our margins have stabilised, as planned, and there is still much more to come.
The scope for further improvement means that this objective remains our most important priority.
I am pleased with the progress weve made, but I am equally pleased that we have the opportunity and plans for that progress to continue.
With the new UK management team now bedded in, in January this year I felt able to step back from the day-to-day running of the business, which I had assumed temporarily in March 2012.
Chris Bush, who has over 30 years experience in Tesco, has taken over the leadership as UK Managing Director.
The strategic importance of Tesco Bank to the Group is being increased by the impact of the The strategic importance internet on the way our customers shop and I believe it is a key part of our multichannel future.
It will provide the means for more and more of our customers to transact online using of Tesco Bank to the Tesco financial products.
Several years of infrastructure build and the wider challenges that Group is being increased the whole banking sector has had to deal with from more careful management of risk to PPI claims have held back performance.
The Bank plays an important role in driving by the impact of the increased loyalty for Tesco and we are giving even more focus to delivering the best possible internet on the way our products and prices to our Clubcard customers.
customers shop and I ii Drive sustainable growth through multichannel leadership I believe establishing multichannel leadership combining digital and online seamlessly with believe it is a key part of our existing excellent physical store network is going to be critical for our future success.
Weve made good progress were the largest internet retailer of food in the UK and were getting bigger and better in clothing and general merchandise but the opportunities remain huge.
The judgements we make today about how we respond to the new digital era will profoundly affect the kind of business Tesco becomes in the years ahead.
The internet and social media are rapidly changing the way people live their lives: the way they shop and what they expect from us not just in terms of goods and services, but also what we stand for and how we contribute to society.
The speed of that change is accelerating and if we are to lead this revolution in our industry, I believe we must move faster and embrace it.
Calling an end to the big store space race and beginning a move to refocus our investment away from large stores, particularly hypermarkets, to convenience and online has been followed by an accelerating pace of change over recent months in all our businesses and geographies.
For example, we are increasing our investment in technology and 500 million of our total capital spend will be devoted to technology, enabling us to create a seamless blend between our stores and online businesses.
A good example of this change in emphasis is blinkbox.
We are already one of the leading retailers of films, TV series, music and books in the UK.
Given the rapid pace of change in the way customers are buying entertainment products, we have been working to develop a range of new digital services.
In March 2013 we launched Clubcard TV using the blinkbox platform, a free service providing family-friendly films and television series to our most loyal Given the rapid pace of customers.
In the next few months, we will be launching blinkboxmusic and blinkboxbooks, demonstrating our commitment to providing the very best entertainment as easily as change in the way customers possible for our customers.
are buying entertainment Going forward, we will be applying this thinking and experience to our international markets products, we have been around the world.
working to develop a range of new digital services.
8 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued iii Pursue disciplined international growth The single most important step we took in 2012 13 in our international business was to launch a strategic review of Fresh & Easy in the United States and in April we confirmed our decision to exit the market.
This was not a decision lightly reached but in keeping with what I have said about the need to move the business forward, and to do so in a disciplined way the US business simply did not offer the prospect of acceptable returns in an appropriate time frame.
Whilst the process of exit is ongoing, and as such the full financial effect of it is yet to be fully determined, we have written down the assets of the business and booked provisions for future liabilities which together have impacted profit after tax by 1 billion.
Fundamentally, we invest overseas because we have the opportunity to generate returns by using our skill and scale in high-growth economies, where retailing is less mature, to build substantial market positions and strong consumer franchises.
This opportunity is unchanged and exploiting it remains an important element of our strategy.
We have had success 32% of our sales and 29% of our profit now comes from outside the UK, and we have market-leading businesses in eight of our 11 international markets.
Over two decades of international development we have learned a huge amount about what works and what doesnt getting the pace and scale of expansion right for local conditions, getting the balance right between local front-end, global skills in sourcing and logistics and being ready to partner where appropriate.
Utilising this knowledge is critical to driving future returns from our international business.
Looking forward, these lessons will guide our approach to internationalisation.
We will stay We will stay focused for the focused for the foreseeable future on our existing markets, and on allocating significant foreseeable future on our capital only where we see very good prospects of strong investment returns.
And where we do invest, it will be with a clear emphasis on lower capital intensity routes to growth existing markets, and on such as convenience and online.
allocating significant capital I have categorised our countries into three groups to explain what this approach means only where we see very in practice: In Thailand, South Korea and Malaysia, where we have strong market positions and good prospects of strong economic growth remains more robust, our businesses have substantial further potential investment returns.
These markets continued to deliver excellent performance in 2012 13, although the headline growth was obscured by the c. 100 million profit impact of legislation to restrict large store shopping hours in South Korea.
Looking forward, the opportunities to build on our already strong positions in these fast-growing economies remain compelling and are therefore our highest international priority.
In the European markets where we have solid, in some cases, market-leading businesses, but where the economic backdrop has been damaging to performance, our emphasis will be on holding our position, driving further benefits of skill and scale and making targeted investment in specific opportunities, such as online and convenience retailing.
At present, the economic context remains unfavourable with continued recession and austerity in all of our markets the Republic of Ireland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.
Long term, these remain fundamentally attractive markets for Tesco both as growth markets and as markets where multichannel retailing is still in its infancy.
In China, Turkey and India, which are exciting long-term growth opportunities, we will push on but carefully adopting a steadier pace of growth that is, importantly, more cautious about capital allocation.
Our model in India is to work with the Tata Group, and we are unable to commit our own capital under current regulations.
However, the model works, we like our partner and we are learning a lot about the market.
We will commit new capital to China and Turkey, but only for those opportunities that pass our rigorous investment appraisal targets.
We will be committing less capital in the coming years than we have done in the past at least until we can demonstrate a significant step forward towards our objective of stronger returns.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 Capitalising on the multichannel opportunity in all these markets will be a core part of our longterm planning.
We are already moving much faster to roll out grocery home shopping which is now in eight international markets and we plan to launch in China later this financial year.
Culture For a consumer business above all, what you represent is critical and it is right that we should be responsive and open about our Values and what we stand for.
We should actively manage them just as we manage other parts of our business.
We have completed a thorough review, looking at whether our Core Purpose and Values are all that we need in this new world and at a time of change.
We have concluded that we need to encourage some changes to ensure it is clear to everyone at Tesco and beyond that we will put more back into society than we take out.
You will find a lot more about this over the page and in the Tesco and Society Report.
Today, our brand must be about more than simply function.
Its about the way we work, the values we live by, the legacy we leave.
We cant solve the worlds problems but we want Tesco to always do the right thing, to inspire and to earn trust and loyalty from all our stakeholders.
And we are putting some clear ambition into changing things for the better in areas where we can make a difference because of who and what we are: Today, our brand must be First, we are going to focus our attention on young people wherever we are in the world.
We are a major global employer, which means we understand how to provide opportunities about more than simply for people in their working lives.
So we want to use that to help millions of young people function.
Its about the way who are worried about their future and are uncertain how to get a foothold in the world of work.
we work, the values we live Second, were going to help and encourage our colleagues and customers to live healthier by, the legacy we leave.
lives and through this help to tackle the global obesity crisis.
Third, were going to lead on the challenge of reducing food waste globally.
Waste not, want not is at the heart of Every Little Helps.
So it is natural for us to want to take a leading role in preventing the enormous quantities of food going to waste every day around the world.
I believe that by applying our skills and resources our scale to these areas, Tesco can make a difference and make things better.
Management I am delighted to say that underpinning all of our drivers of growth UK, multichannel and international is the strength of the new management team we have created.
Our new Executive Committee draws on the potential of the strongest, most experienced leaders within Tesco, complemented by some first-class external appointments in key disciplines.
I am confident that the team we now have in place has the skills, experience, creativity and drive to deliver our ambitions.
All of these changes are the result of my determination to ensure that Tesco is a company that delivers shareholder value but one that does so by delivering what matters to all our stakeholders.
