10 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Group Chief Executive Officers Q&A The first 365 days ofTransformation The momentum we have created in the first 365 days will continue now into year two with even greater focus and commitment from the team at Thomas Cook.
This is an exciting journey aswe build for the future.
The travel industry is changing at pace as consumers require greater exibility, greater choice and products personalised to meet their needs.
Technology offers so much opportunity for customers to connect in many different ways and the Transformation of Thomas Cook will combine the high tech innovation that customers need with the high touch trusted, personal service at the heart of the worlds oldest travel brand.
The Thomas Cook Group is on a Transformation journey, and here I answer some of the questions I have been asked about my reections on the first 365 days of that Transformation, as we now look forward to year two of our journey.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 Successfully completed recapitalisation growth based on facts and data to ensure our One third of the senior leadership team are new strategic focus would deliver products and long-standing members of the Thomas 1 services to meet the needs of todays leisure Cook leadership team, bringing relevant traveller to inspire their personal journeys.
knowledge and perspective, one third were 1.6bn promoted from within as strong talent and Revenue up by Our strategy for profitable growth gradually one third bought in from outside to bring took shape, and on 13 March we announced specialist skills, expertise and discipline to our plans to the capital markets, on 27 June the organisation.
Travel has historically been we successfully completed our 1.6 billion quite siloed and there is so much that can 1.3% recapitalisation and on 1 October 2013, be learned from other industries, providing Costs down by we announced our unied brand strategy.
opportunity for progress creating a truly Our disposals programme continues to gain differentiated offering for customers and momentum, in line with the targets we have business partners alike.
Internally we have 3% set ourselves.
All of our strategic commitments a saying that we will be lavish with our are underpinned by a strict timeline for customers and lean with ourselves.
Free cash ow up by delivery with robust KPIs and financial targets.
Delivering against our commitments is a vital The strengthened leadership team have been part of the re-energising of Thomas Cook.
critical to the success to date, as we build an 156m effective organisation.
We will continue to We have already made strong progress against invest in their development, whilst attracting 2 many of the metrics, and where progress has new talent, as required.
The formation of my been faster than expected, notably in the new Executive Committee will ensure that areas of new product development, our cost we continue to drive our strategic progress out and profit improvement drive and also with rigour, breaking down silos and working Q: What have been your cash conversion, the targets have now been across the Group where appropriate whilst highlights ofthe past year?
increased, as you will see on page 20. maintaining close local contact with our customers and their specic market needs.
A: Its been a year of significant milestones Exceeding expectations and developing We are driving a change of culture, pace and for the Group, each one highly impactful, a methodology to further professionalise professionalism with our Code of Conduct and an important next step on the journey.
the business is vital if we are to restore and Values, now embedded throughout Our immediate priorities were to stabilise the shareholder confidence and once again take a the business, helping to guide how we business and create a solid foundation from leadership role in shaping the future of travel.
The formation of my ExCo will help which we could begin to deliver our newly to streamline decision making and ensure outlined strategy for profitable growth.
At the end of the first 365 days, underlying we act as one Group, whilst aligning our revenue had grown 1.3%, despite capacity leadership responsibilities even more robustly At the same time we had to re-instil a strong reductions, costs are down 3%, and to the strategy to ensure that our next 365 sense of belief both internally and externally underlying EBIT is up 49% to 263 million.
days of Transformation deliver results in the with our key stakeholder groups that we are Free cash ow, an important driver in the same way as the first.
focused on the right activities to return this continuing deleverage of the business, is up 3 amazing brand to strength, and we had to 156 million.
Net debt has almost halved In a year of rsts we have also invested in deliver against our commitments.
In the first andloan maturities have been extended.
As part of the cost out drive we 365 days of the Transformation of Thomas had to take out a number of roles always Cook we have effected a rigorous and rapid In order to drive the change that the business regrettable but also essential if we were turnaround of the business and set out a required, I needed to strengthen the leadership to secure the business for the long term, robust strategy of sustainable profitable team and invest time and energy to ensure encouraging us to work smarter and reducing growth.
This pace will continue into the year we have the right skills in place to lead the costly admin and unnecessary processes, ahead as we gain momentum, developing a Transformation.
We needed to change the that did not benefit our customers or high performance culture and a methodology culture to put the needs of our customers shareholders.
Those who left were treated to further professionalise the organisation.
and people back at the heart of the business.
with dignity and respect and given support We have made real progress already in our to help them take the next steps in their We conducted one of the most far-reaching quest to build a culture of high performance career.
Through the consultation process surveys of the leisure travel market in our and accountability, stripping away layers over 800 employees, originally placed at risk early work, seeking the opinions of 18,000 of management between my Executive were redeployed in new roles, keeping their consumers including both Thomas Cook team and the customer, all consistent with knowledge and skills in the business for the customers and non-customers across our our focus to take out cost anddrive a leaner benefit of customers and shareholders.
key source markets of the UK, Germany and organisation, as more andmore customers Sweden.
The findings were invaluable as we use the web to research and purchase.
began to develop our strategy for profitable Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 12 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Group Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued When I started at Thomas Cook, I asked investment as we bring in digital talent to Q: Are you where you thought our teams globally to share with me their support our progress.
Our Digital Advisory youwould be at this stage?
8,000 of them did candid, Board, comprising external experts in their actionable feedback from the frontline.
A: Although overall we are ahead of where eld helps to ensure we keep abreast of the In September 2013, we conducted our we thought we would be at this stage, latest developments in all sectors, continue first all employee engagement survey the implementation of our strategy for tohelp drive the pace of change in this area.
to sense check our progress with all of sustainable profitable growth has only just our employees.
In a service business like begun.
We have much still to do, but I believe The first 365 days of our journey are behind Thomas Cook, where customers trust us to the infrastructure, foundations and culture us and we are focused on new deliverables, inspire and deliver their personal journeys, we are building now are preparing uswell to exacting targets and operationalising the engaged employees who believe in our end deliver our ambitious plans.
Thomas Cook Business System to deliver even goal are vital to customer satisfaction and greater benets to our business, the industry loyalty and ultimately our ability to deliver No one at Thomas Cook is complacent and, and all of our stakeholders.
Engaging our employees whilst our first 365 days have delivered strong in the business has clear objectives and in the Transformation has been vital and results in many areas, we are focused on performance measures as we each take our we have worked hard to communicate with continuous improvement and the long-term part in driving the Transformation of Thomas them at every stage honestly sharing our success of the Group.
With the systemised Cook and delivering on our commitments.
position to help them understand the tough approach to business, products, people and I think my current frame of mind can best decisions we were making.
They have been processes we are developing, I know we can be described as positively dissatisfied and fantastic united as one team to deliver deliver signicantly more.
Reecting this, we looking forward to the next 365 days.
are increasing three of our key 2015 targets: new product revenue, Wave 1 cost out and Q: What is the signicance Our own teams helped develop our new profit improvement and cash conversion.
In addition, we have importantly announced Values and Ways of Working.
With integrity our Wave 2 cost out and profit improvement at our core we also have a Code of Conduct, A: A huge part of our journey is centred programme, which is targeted to deliver which allows us to deliver the values of our around our employees and using their passion improvement of the same magnitude of new unifying brand the Sunny Heart which for our customers to make a difference to Wave 1 by 2018. our employees have embraced so positively each and every personal journey.
as a real symbol that Thomas Cook is Listening to our customers and better changing and is different.
Ours is the oldest, and arguably the best understanding their needs is central as we loved name in leisure travel.
With 172 years continue to develop our products, systems We are actively recognising and celebrating of proud tradition behind us, we are a brand and services.
We are striving for differentiated individual contributions and through that customers trust.
We must be worthy products to give our customers the widest our Transformer programme involving anddeserving of that trust.
and most exible range of destinations, best some of our many talented individuals in able to meet their needs all underpinned spreading the messages of transformation.
When I arrived, the Group was quite siloed in by the Thomas Cook assurance of safety Communication is vital to a successful its thinking and approach.
Customers were and quality to give peace of mind that our Transformation and we work hard to convey confused and not always clear which parts customers can trust.
Our holiday experiences the messages of our progress across the oftheir journey were being delivered by need to be as individual as the people who organisation through many different Thomas Cook.
Best practice wasnt being book them we want to be there for our mediums, including our intranet, which shared widely and there was duplicated customers however, whenever and wherever will enable real social collaboration and activity and cost.
Customers were missing they need us.
Our new SunConnect concept thesharing of best practice Group-wide.
Radically reducing our 85 brand labels has been well received as just one example was a clear priority eliminating cost and of new product that offers customers, In summary, so many highlights but still confusion.
We have now simplied these and particularly families, a fully connected much more to do.
85 labels to just 30, unifying our brands holiday experience.
under one common symbol our new Sunny Heart.
Simplifying the customer We have some exciting innovations in experience the Sunny Heart highlights the the pipeline to drive our online customer combined strengths of the Group in the experience through enhanced web, minds of our customers, and will become improved search functionality and leading synonymous with personalised and trusted edge apps.
We have committed 50% of holiday experiences and our high tech, high our Group-wide sales will be transacted via touch delivery.
Our brand is underpinned the web by 2015, although in some parts of by the Thomas Cook Quality Assurance, the business we have already exceeded this our international scale and market leading target.
We have much to deliver in this area, purchasing power all vital if we are to deliver which continues to be an area of strategic for our customers again and again.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 An expensive brand roll-out would have As already shared, during the development Q: Whats next for Thomas Cook?
been inappropriate for where we are on of our strategy for profitable growth we 1 A: Our journey to build long-term sustainable our Transformation journey.
Instead we will undertook one of the largest traveller surveys value at Thomas Cook continues, with rebrand as we replace.
Our employees are of recent years.
We have learned through the profitable growth at the heart of all we do.
fully engaged in the change, and we wanted survey the importance of customer attitude Sustaining our Transformation and delivering them to embrace the heart and start to in determining holiday preferences and our for our customers and shareholders again live the difference internally first.
With our tailoring our product portfolio to ensure and again will only be achieved if we have employees engaged, we believe that all those that we meet individual customer needs.
the best people, best products, best systems who come into contact with us will sense the Specically, we have segmented our product and best processes, all underpinned by the difference and know that they are dealing portfolio into four areas: concept hotels, very best practices from all industries, not just with a new, re-energised Thomas Cook.
partnership hotels, hotels from our brochures our own.
We are focused on over-delivering and exible hotels available online, including and weve increased three of our FY15 key Our new brand continues to engage and hotels4u.
com that has recently broadened its performance targets already, reecting better inspire our teams and almost daily I am sent offer to appeal not just to business but also to progress than originally anticipated in the photographs like these of people right across retail customers.
Developing these plans for areas of newproduct revenue, Wave 1 cost the Group embracing the heart.
For many the future are high on our list of whats next out andour cash conversion.
this has been the most visible sign of our with opportunity to increase the number Transformation and theyre embracing ofvisitors to all product categories.
With customer need rmly back at the heart the change with renewed commitment of everything we do, we will be aiming to and vigour.
In FY13 over 500,000 customers enjoyed further professionalise the high tech, high 2 our 93 exclusive concept hotels, which are touch delivery of our trusted, personalised operated under our own brands, Sentido, products, supported by a lean and innovative Sunwing, Sunprime and Smartline.
operating system, specically designed for These hotels provide our customers with a our needs.
consistent experience based on a dened list of features that meet their needs To support this, we have created a disciplined wherever they go on holiday.
These are operating model called The Thomas Cook further categorised according to whether Business System.
their customer focus is adult, couple or family orientated.
Thomas Cook Business System profitable growth High Tech, Our other exclusive hotels are partnership through trusted, HighTouch: hotels.
In FY13 over 800,000 customers personalised a digital business products enjoyed these hotels, which are owned by world leading hoteliers, with whom we have close relationships and who have strong reputations for providing consistently Top-to-bottom high quality service, in keeping with our leadership Customers Efficient structures, and relentless at the heart systems and commitment to assurance.
3 performance processes through management lean & innovation Our third segment consists of hotels from our brochures, providing customers with The process of embedding this methodology a quality range of accommodation and into the organisation has begun and style, as well as more choice across a wide is already helping to drive a culture of range ofdestinations.
In FY13 8.8 million continuous improvement across the Group.
customersenjoyed staying at these hotels.
This approach will be key as we shape the future of the Group and drive the second year Finally, we also offer a significant range of our Transformation.
of exible hotels that are available online, on a real-time basis via the web We will continue to strengthen the leadership to allow the greatest level of exibility.
team with global executives who have a track Supported by encouraging trials we see record for delivering results, and under my potential to attractnew customers who leadership the newly formed ExCo will be like to book online and typically later than driving greater alignment in all parts of the many others.
strategy, creating real opportunity to reduce cost and duplication and deliver greater synergy as we strive to work more effectively.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 14 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Group Chief Executive Officers Q&A continued Our strategy is focused on continuing to As we build an omni-channel approach shift more of the total investment spend that ensures customers can interact with into those hotels where we have the highest us however they want, we will continue returns.
These are areas of strong strategic to develop our digital footprint.
We have investment for the future and we expect to invested significant resource and time in increase our offering of exclusive partnership improving our web presence and this will and concept hotels to 800 by FY17, with over continue as we move all markets away from 3.5 million guests.
the multiple platforms of the past onto one web platform.
This will improve search Our product growth ambitions also include a capability and consistency, allowing us to relentless pursuit to innovate more products, better sort and organise our products to such as our new SunConnect concept, better meet customer requirements, as we developed as a direct response to customer maximise the product range we can offer to feedback through our extensive traveller every customer in every market.
Initial response has been good.
that web penetration will accelerate once all our businesses are on one platform, reaching We are continuing to diversify beyond over 50% by 2015.
Were driving innovation combinedpurchasing power to procure our traditional Sun and Beach Products, and have many exciting new information accommodation on a centralised basis, developing our portfolio of city hotels across and products in development to answer reducing expense further by growing online our Group.
We have already doubled our customer questions quickly and effectively.
sales of our own branded products.
inventory in Central Europe and plan to more Through our new destination discovery than double the number of city hotels we system, in partnership with Triporati we can As customers increasingly purchase through offer by FY15.
help customers narrow the range of choices our online channels, we will have the chance and then, to transfer their own shortlist of to further centralise activity, reducing cost, We are also signicantly expanding our selections to their personal devices through improving service and consistency, through WinterSun offering, with 25% of our planned our new Dream Capture to allow them to more lean organisational structures and growth coming from the addition of new peruse and make their final selection in their reduced back-room expenses.
destinations and the expansion of existing own homes with their travelling companions.
We have recently added seven We are looking to add digital value to every We believe the total Wave 2 benets will be new destinations to our offer including part of the customer journey and many of a similar magnitude to those identied StLucia, Barbados and Antigua and plan more innovations will follow as we look to a through Wave 1 and will be achieved by FY18.
further additions in time for next winter.
digital future, where every leader in our senior Over the next six months, we will continue to team has web targets embedded in their develop the plan as we rene and develop We have increased our target for new product performance criteria.
revenues, following a good performance in the year.
Our target now is to achieve new In line with our new operating methodology, All of these plans will only be possible by product revenue of 700 million by FY15 The Thomas Cook Business System, we plan employing the right people and so, we will and by FY17, we expected to have increased to deliver further benets from enhanced continue to focus on attracting, developing incremental product revenue growth margin management, more efficient use of and retaining the very best people people furtherto more than 1.2 billion.
shared services and a leaner organisational who are as excited as we are by the Thomas design.
These will be delivered under a Cook Transformation journey, as we continue To underpin all our products right across Wave 2 cost out and profit improvement to professionalise our business and profitably the Group and continue to deliver on the programme, which will be in addition to the grow for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
trust that our customers place with us, Wave 1 work already underway to deliver when they book a holiday, we are rolling 440 million of cost out by FY15.
The momentum we have created in the first out an extensive and thorough assurance 365 days will continue now into year two with programme.
This involves a continuous audit Our new Wave 2 cost out and profit even greater focus and commitment from of key quality measures including health and improvement initiatives will drive benets theteam at Thomas Cook.
safety, customer service and overall quality in gross margin as well as reduce costs excellence.
This work includes extensive through lower overheads.
Gross margin This is an exciting journey as we build customer surveys that will allow us to benets are expected to arise from further forthe future.
determine what really matters to customers yield management and working more which we can then reinvest into our ongoing closely together as a Group whether Harriet Green product development.
Our survey told us this by adopting one system, one inventory Group Chief Executive Officer matters to consumers.
and one web across our markets, and the 27 November 2013 scale benets that come from using our Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 Trusted Brand unication 1 On 1 October 2013, the Company announced the unication of its brands and market activity under onecommon symbol the Sunny Heart.
Simplifying the brand proposition is a key element in the Groups profitable growth strategy, building on the Groups already strong and trusted brand heritage and projecting its Transformation into a single business.
The Groups many leading brands, such as Neckermann in Europe, Ving in Sweden and Condor in Germany will all connect with the Sunny Heart in different ways.
This is a major milestone in the Transformation of theGroup, as it continues to develop its product offering and focus on an omni-channelapproach.
Brand architecture 2 Corporate brand Master brand Aligned brands Endorsed brands 3 Standalone brands Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
