TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 09 BusIness and fInancIal RevIew DIRECTORS REPORT fInancIal statements shaRehOldeR InfORmatIOn Chief Executives statement As a Group we have had a great year.
margins, are often booked earlier leading to customer and our own expectations in its Because of this, Id like to start by better yield management and efficiency and first few months of operation.
this has thanking our colleagues across the we receive excellent customer feedback that, enabled us, and will continue to enable us, to business who have pushed themselves in the majority of cases, leads to repeat fly to new and exciting destinations such as to deliver this fantastic set of results.
bookings and advocacy within our customer Thailand from the UK.
In May we committed Thank you.
One of our flagship unique holiday to purchasing 60 new Boeing 737 maX concepts is Sensatori from Thomson, which aircraft and secured the option and right this financial year has been exceptional and received a 92% customer satisfaction score to purchase another 90 on the same terms.
our strategy continues to bear fruit.
We have continued growing our The deal will enhance our unique offering, sixth year running we have delivered a record unique holiday portfolio across the Group replace older aircraft, improve fuel efficiency underlying operating profit.
this year we and remain committed to identifying and help secure the future of our six airlines.
achieved 589m 2012: 490m, representing opportunities to develop it further.
The delivery of the 60 committed aircraft growth of 20% over the 12-month period.
will run from January 2018 until March 2023.
On a constant currency basis, our underlying Our direct distribution channels are key to operating profit increased 13% to 555m the Groups success and enable us to increase It has been a record year for us but we dont 2012: 490m surpassing the top end of our margin and improve results.
The number of believe it will stop there.
We are pleased growth roadmap target 10%.
Revenue has holidays booked through our Mainstream with the performance at the start of Winter increased during the financial year by 4% to websites continues to increase and this 2013 14, with 60% of the programme sold, 15.1 billion, or on a constant currency basis, remains the core contributor for direct sales.
and we are encouraged by early Summer 2% to 14.7bn 2012: 14.5bn.
Our two Of our direct sales, 35% are online, which 2014 trading against strong comparatives.
largest source markets saw underlying equates to 3.7 billion in revenue.
There is TUI Travel is structurally well positioned operating profit growth of 27% in the uK and still ample opportunity to increase direct with a robust business model that gives 30% in Germany, delivering 251m 2012: distribution channels which will help us gain us a long term competitive advantage.
The 197m and 113m 2012: 87m respectively, further margin across all our source markets.
business continues to deliver sustainable while margins continue to improve.
We are an online business but we continue growth through our unique holiday Following these results it is obvious that our to drive further enhancements through experiences, increasingly distributed online, strategy of selling unique holidays directly technologies that amplify the customer whilst leveraging its scale as one organisation.
to our customers is the right one.
As the experience at the front-end and drive further This in turn will drive further value for both business continues its move towards a more efficiencies in the back-end processes.
In our customers and shareholders.
Building online future, and while we efficiently manage May this year we launched the award-winning on this years outperformance where we have our costs, we continue to build upon the TUI Digital Assistant in the UK as the achieved a 20% underlying operating profit foundations of a business set for sustainable MyThomson mobile app, which was very well growth, I remain confident that we will deliver growth.
Our colleagues within the business received by customers, achieving a five star consistently on our five year annualised care deeply about the customer experience rating in the Apple App Store and topping the growth target of between 7% to 10%.
and everything we do is built around free download travel app chart shortly after Our colleagues are the true driver of the enhancing it at every level, through every launch.
Since then, we have had in excess of business.
Their commitment, endeavour stage of the customer journey, from dreaming 180,000 downloads, proving we understand and passion to deliver incredible travel of a holiday to sharing it with family and what our customers want and need from experiences for our customers is proven in friends once they have returned home.
Post year end, we began the exceptional results we have announced the TUI Digital Assistant international roll-out Over two-thirds of Mainstream holidays this financial year.
I would like to thank each with the Meine TUI mobile app launch in the booked are now unique holidays, an increase and every one of them for the dedication German source market.
on last year that has been steadily rising they have shown, and continue to show, since 2007 when this became the focus of I am pleased to say that we were the first each and every day.
the main benefits of unique business in the UK to take delivery of the holidays are five-fold.
they provide higher Boeing 787 dreamliner that has exceeded Peter Long Chief Executive 3.7bn 20% 69% Direct online sales Growth in underlying Percentage of across our Mainstream operating profit Mainstream holidays Sector sold that are unique 2  v32 copy.
indd 9 13 12 2013 17:35 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 10 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort Why we do it: Market overview the economic environment the political climate The global economic recovery has maintained the slow pace of 2012, As a global organisation, we feel the impact of government regulation with GDP growth recorded at slightly below 3%.
This can be attributed in all of the markets in which we operate.
Some of our activities, such to weaker domestic demand and continued low growth in several key as those undertaken by our airline, are heavily regulated.
Many of our emerging market economies, combined with the ongoing recovery lawmakers, particularly in Europe, are becoming increasingly focused from recession in the main European countries.
upon measures to protect customers.
While emerging and developing economies registered a 4.5% increase Our political and regulatory affairs team seek to engage with legislators in GDP, advanced economies experienced a more modest increase at an early stage in relation to all of those areas of regulation that might of 1.2%.
Our two largest source markets, the UK and Germany, saw have a material impact upon the way we do business.
Our focus is always growth of 1.4% and 0.5% respectively in 2013. to work with governments to bring forward legislation that is fit for [Source: World Economic Outlook Update 7.10.13, IMF] purpose, properly balances the interests of industry and consumers and treats all industry players fairly.
Despite this slow growth Germany and the UK have seen The last 12 months have seen significant developments at the unemployment decreasing year-on-year.
Germany has the second European level with the Commission proposing new legislation in the lowest unemployment rate in the Eurozone at 5.3% and the UK has area of Air Passenger Rights and bringing forward proposals for reform seen unemployment levels fall to 7.7% in 2013.
[Source: EuroStat 2013 Q2 ] of the Package Travel Directive.
We have engaged consistently with the the leisure travel market Commission as they have developed these proposals and will engage over the coming 12 months with the European Parliament and the 2012 was a record year for International Tourism with global international Council of Ministers as they come to consider the suggested reforms arrivals surpassing the 1 billion mark for the first time.
growth continue at 4%, slightly less than the 4.8% seen in 2011.
Europe continues to account for over half of worldwide arrivals, reaching Aviation taxation also remains on the agenda as governments across 534 million in 2012. the world look for ways to increase revenue.
Our role is to remind them of the importance of the travel and tourism industry as a driver The travel market continues to be driven by high growth in online for growth.
bookings and, while the uncertain economic environment has had an effect on consumer travel spending habits, demand for leisure travel In the UK, the debate on airport capacity continues.
We will maintain a remains strong.
full role in that debate in order to ensure that the specific requirements of leisure airlines and passengers are fully understood.
Customer power has never been greater in the travel and tourism market.
Developments in technology allow the customer to compare, the sustainability challenge contrast and review their choices as well as interact with suppliers and Travel and tourism accounts for 9% of global GDP and 6% of global fellow customers worldwide.
So whether customers are looking for exports.
The industry will continue to be one of the worlds fastestunique holidays with bespoke services or simply want to combine a growing sectors, with emerging economies in particular seen as engines cheap flight with a hotel, they have a wealth of brands and booking of such growth from 47% market share in 2012 and expected to options from which to choose.
Tourism today is responsible for 1 in 11 jobs Our business model see page 15 aims to cater to the changing market globally but also for 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions.
From trends to best serve these differing needs of our customers.
The Tour a sustainable development perspective this poses a challenge the Operator model focuses on providing unique holiday experiences, growth of an industry highly dependent on fossil fuels and biodiversity coupled with end-to-end service while the Online Accommodation in a world of finite natural resources.
model focuses on providing a range of hotels across the globe in line Our businesses have been facing up to this challenge for over a decade.
This diversity of offering means customers For TUI Travel, responding to these issues means bringing sustainability searching for traditional all-inclusive packages, multi-stop bespoke centre stage, to build on the efficiency and resilience of our business itineraries or worldwide city breaks can all book with us.
and the services it provides.
Our Sustainable Holidays Plan is a major step forward in our journey towards providing special travel experiences whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting the culture and people in destinations and bringing real economic benefit to local communities.
See our Sustainable Development section on page 26 for more information.
indd 10 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 11 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION OUR FOOTPRINT Our core markets consist of the UK, Sweden, Germany, France, The total Online Accommodation market accounts for 87bn Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Switzerland & of global travel spend.
Between them they account for 498bn of global travel Within the Accommodation Wholesaler segment, TUI Travels spend.
Our four largest source markets of the UK & Ireland, MARKET addressable market makes up about 17bn of this spend.
Germany, France & Sweden make up over 70% of this spend.
SIZE & The Group also participates in the Accommodation OTA The broad range of product and niche and international COVERAGE segment with focus in the UK, Asia-Pacific and Brazil, which customer markets that apply to Specialist & Activity businesses accounts for 6.4bn of the total Accommodation OTA market.
make it difficult to quantify spend on these holidays but their geographical reach and popularity continue to increase.
Our core markets are projected to grow at a 3% CAGR over the The Accommodation Online Travel Agent OTA market is next five years.
The Mainstream holiday market remains resilient projected to grow at a CAGR of 9.6% over the next five years and continues to see growth in a tough economic environment.
while the Accommodation Wholesaler market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.8%.
MARKET GROWTH We continue to be the number one tour operator in Europe with Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Hotelbeds & either number one or two positions in each of our core markets.
Bedsonline continues to lead the market in the B2B space.
In addition, we have market-leading positions in a number With our Accommodation OTA business we are positioned strongly of specialist segments with a portfolio of unique products, in the UK LateRooms.
com and OUR unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experience.
are building our presence in the latin American market through POSITIONING MalaPronta, Brazils fourth largest online accommodation OTA.
Customers are increasingly moving towards online channels to Online Accommodation continues to be one of the fastest fulfil their travel needs and we expect this trend to continue into growing segments in the leisure travel industry.
The recent growth 2014 and beyond.
We therefore remain committed to improving is derived from the increase in online bookings coupled with our online presence, increasing our participation in social media strong demand from emerging markets.
Online Accommodation, KEY TRENDS and moving towards an online-driven company culture.
therefore, remains a key area for TUI Travel where we look to & FUTURE consolidate our leadership position within the Accommodation Demand for unique holiday experiences continues to see OUTLOOK Wholesaler market and build on our international position in strong growth and with a diverse range of experiences on the Accommodation OTA segment.
offer, TUI Travel remains well placed.
indd 11 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 12 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort How we do it: Our structure TUI Travel is organised and mAinStreAm managed through three principal uk & irelAnd the mainstream Sector makes up business Sectors: Mainstream, the largest part of our Group in Accommodation & Destinations terms of financial performance, scale, scope and number of and Specialist & Activity.
this Sector incorporates diagram sets out each Sector, our familiar power brands, such what it comprises and some as our tour operators, with circa 1,800 retail stores across europe highlights.
nordicS and six airlines consisting of 138 aircraft throughout our key source markets.
we report via these Source markets with the largest four reporting separately the uk & ireland, nordic, Germany and france.
the mainstream Sector uses the tour operator business model.
GermAny See page 15 tui trAVel Plc AccommodAtion frAnce underlyinG oPerAtinG & deStinAtionS Profit miX by Sector the Accommodation & destinations Sector A&d is a global provider of accommodation and inbound travel services.
it competes in fast-growing areas of the travel industry through three business lines: Accommodation other wholesaler, Accommodation online travel Agent otA and inbound Services.
both Accommodation Mainstream Sector 82% wholesaler and otA use the online Accommodation business model Accommodation & Destinations Sector 12% while inbound Services straddles both business models tour operator Specialist & Activity Sector 6% and online Accommodation.
Acc wholeSAler See page 15 Acc otA SPeciAliSt & ActiVity the Specialist & Activity Sector SAS comprises more than 100 brands offering a wide range of unique travel experiences to customers across the globe, from ski and sailing holidays to adventure travel and sports tours.
the inbound SerViceS Specialist & Activity Sector uses the tour operator business model.
See page 15 See more: How we do it: Strategic framework and business models, page 14 3  v82 copy.
indd 12 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork Sector buSineSS lineS Source mArketS TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 13 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION cuStomer numberS key deStinAtionS key brAndS roomniGhtS Canary Islands, 5.2m Balearic Islands passengers and Greece Canary Islands, 1.6m Greece and Turkey passengers Balearic Islands, 6.0m Turkey and passengers Canary Islands Morocco, Tunisia 1.6m and Turkey passengers Turkey, Canary 5.1m Islands and Spain passengers USA, Spain and Thailand 25.2m roomnights UK, Brazil, Singapore and Malaysia Spain, Turkey 12.8m and Egypt passengers Italy, France 1.4m and USA customers 3  v82 copy.
indd 13 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 14 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort How we do it: Our strategic framework and business models Our Strategic Framework underpins everything we do and comprises our vision, Strategy, Strategic Drivers and Making travel the values that are innate within our VISION business culture.
Our strategic drivers experiences special are ingrained in our operations with a clear focus on Content, Brands & Distribution, Technology, Growth & Scale and People.
Our Business models Through our global brand portfolio are derived directly from our strategic & travel expertise we are focused drivers, that were refined last year STRATEGIC STRATEGIC STRATEGY on delivering leisure travel DRIVERS when we set out our growth roadmap, DRIVERS IN ACTION and focus on the two key areas of experiences designed for our PAGE long-term growth within the market 12 customers ever changing needs Tour Operator and Online Accommodation.
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION For more information please see the How we do it: Our five strategic drivers Unique, inclusive holidays Range and diversity section page 16 OUR 1 of hotel stock VALUES Tailor-made holidays CONTENT PAGE Global destination and 16 source market coverage We respect our customers and never forget that Market-leading brands Well known Accommodation 2 they choose to spend their leisure time with us.
We Wholesaler and Trusted brands safety share a duty to maintain their loyalty and trust.
We BRANDS & PAGE Accommodation OTA brands CUSTOMER & security DISTRIBUTION anticipate customer desires and everything we do is 18 DRIVEN Online with them in mind.
We believe there is no such thing High levels of controlled as a mass market but a huge market of individuals.
distribution focus on online We are passionate about being the best and about Flexible technological Market-leading technology 3 winning with integrity.
We seek the ideas and trends platforms to support TECHNOLOGY that change leisure-time markets for the better and PAGE PLAYING growth move quickly to action them.
TO WIN 20 We are not afraid of making brave decisions.
We want to do something new every day and we love what we do.
We are committed to sustainable development and to Leveraging scale Leveraging scale 4 making a positive impact on society.
We know leadership GROWTH has to be earned and we never take it for granted.
We PAGE RESPONSIBLE & SCALE communicate openly and easily and help each other LEADERSHIP 22 develop and grow.
We celebrate local differences and actively seek to contribute to a better world.
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and Knowledge & expertise Knowledge & expertise 5 a clear focus on the need for profitability.
We look for Driving innovation Driving innovation opportunities that have a commercial advantage for PEOPLE PAGE VALUE us and add value to our customers experiences.
We 24 DRIVEN predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time products based on their genuine appeal to customers.
indd 14 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 15 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION Making travel VISION experiences special Through our global brand portfolio & travel expertise we are focused STRATEGIC STRATEGIC STRATEGY on delivering leisure travel DRIVERS DRIVERS IN ACTION experiences designed for our PAGE 12 customers ever changing needs TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION Unique, inclusive holidays Range and diversity OUR 1 of hotel stock VALUES Tailor-made holidays CONTENT PAGE Global destination and 16 source market coverage We respect our customers and never forget that Market-leading brands Well known Accommodation 2 they choose to spend their leisure time with us.
indd 15 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 16 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort How we do it: 1. content Our five strategic drivers Over the next few pages we explore what our five strategic drivers mean for our Tour Operator and Online Accommodation businesses.
We will outline why they are important to us, how we adhere to them operationally to ensure profitable performance, how we know they are working, and finally a selection of highlights from this past year.
There are distinct parallels across some drivers, uniting the two business models, while the focus can be considerably different for others.
1. content see adjacent 2. brands & distribution content cASe Study see page 18 Strong unique products: Sensatori & Sensimar Sensatori and Sensimar are two 3. technology examples of our unique holiday see page 20 offering, operating out of the UK and German markets respectively to a variety of destinations worldwide.
Both concepts provide affordable luxury to the customer.
Demand for these unique holidays continues see KPIs section on page 38 and 4.
Growth & Scale this year a new hotel opened for both Sensimar in Andaluca and Sensatori see page 22 in Turkey.
2014 will see Sensatori open in Jamaica, and Sensimar open its first resort in Mexico.
We continue to develop these unique concepts across all our source markets which helps differentiate us from our competitors.
indd 16 13 12 2013 17:40 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 17 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION unique content forms the backbone our content range and diversity of our tour operator strategy is attractive to our customers why?
Unique content is tailored to the differing needs of An increasing propensity to travel due to global economic customers, ensuring that we offer the right product recovery creates an ever-expanding market place to the right customer.
of customers looking for a competitive range of accommodation product, in terms of both geography Provides value-added services and features which and price.
command a margin premium over commodity products.
Travellers are increasingly exploring opportunities to Books early when compared to commodity products enabling research and book accommodation product online and us to manage our capacity and yield more effectively.
thus they benefit from our large volume of well-presented leads to higher customer satisfaction and an increase content and .
Adds value to our brand makes us identifiable and clarifies what are we doing about it?
our brand proposition as an end-to-end travel provider.
Ensuring that we have a wide variety of product, in terms Finally, as all of our unique content is exclusive to of quality, destination and budget.
It is also important that TUI Travel, it also helps create effective barriers to entry our content is translated well digitally, that it is rich, inspiring for our competition.
The emerging markets are increasingly important to our what are we doing about it?
online accommodation businesses, both as a source market In Mainstream: and as a destination.
We have a clear strategy for targeting Continuously reviewing our existing concept portfolio, these markets, with particular focus in our five-year plan adapting where appropriate for different Source Markets.
on further expansion in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Developing new hotel concepts which are exclusive to our Americas and Africa.
brands and in line with customer demand.
how do we know this is working?
looking at concepts from a holistic pan-European perspective, Over the past year Accommodation Wholesaler our B2B which would be suitable for Mainstream as a whole.
business TTv has grown in the key regions of Middle East, In Specialist: Asia Pacific, Americas and Europe excluding UK, Spain and Maintaining our focus on providing unique experiences Portugal by over 30%.
through our range of brands to cater to a wide range of The improvement in our Accommodation OTA hotel customer needs.
content is showing early positive signs, especially with the In FY13 Hayes & Jarvis launched a tailor-made offering, use of new unique images on Malapronta.
com, which has providing seamless service to customers wanting bespoke led to a positive impact in conversion.
itineraries to places such as India, South Africa and latin 2013 highlights America.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business has seen a 16% how do we know this is working?
increase in hotel inventory in FY13.
Demand for unique holidays remains strong: in FY13 The Brazilian Accommodation OTA, MalaPronta, has seen a unique holiday sales increased to 69% FY12: 65% of total 110% increase in its hotel portfolio in the past year across sales across Mainstream.
See KPIs the main domestic destinations of Sao Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro Our unique hotels continue to register the highest customer and Curitiba.
satisfaction and retention scores across the whole portfolio.
2013 highlights In the UK the Couples proposition continues to grow with an additional 12 properties added to the collection in FY13.
This brings the total number of units to 38 and underscores the confidence we have in our unique products.
SuneoClub a pan mainstream all-inclusive 3 concept went on sale at the end of July for Summer 2014.
The concept currently boasts nine hotels across Greece, Spain and Turkey and is a prime example of TUI Travel source markets working together.
the brazilian Accommodation otA Our Specialist brands also saw some exciting developments.
malaPronta has seen a Sovereign launched the By Sovereign concept whereby they forged partnerships with key hoteliers to place in-hotel sales 110% increase in its hotel teams with specific expertise as well as rich and visible portfolio in the online content, driving considerable growth.
indd 17 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 18 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort HOW WE DO IT: Our five strategic drivers 2. brands & distribution brAndS & diStribution cASe Study Offering more tailored products Across the Nordics, there are a total of 10 next-generation stores that are proving that a modern high-street customer experience can complement an online-sales focus.
We know that this combined strategy is working as a result of the exceptional performance of the Nordic countries 11% increase in underlying operating profit for FY13.
Next-generation stores exist to inspire customers, giving them a modern pre-holiday experience in which staff play a more advisory role, rather than the traditional focus on sales.
In this way, colleagues work with customers to understand their needs, before offering advice as to locations that fit their criteria.
Stores feature modern technology, world maps and virtual brochures on large screens around the shop, for customers to peruse at will.
Simultaneous to this, online distribution is at an all-time high in the Nordics, up two percentage points from 2012 to reach 67% in 2013 demonstrating that our next-generation stores work with, rather than competing against, online points of contact.
For more information about segmental performance, please see page 59 thomson.
1 Socially devoted business in the uk award by Social bakers, for the level of social customer service 3  v82 copy.
indd 18 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 19 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION we remain committed to our focus on direct distribution and being online driven why?
Increasing numbers of European travellers are researching A large portion of our market continues to value the face-toand booking their travel via digital channels: we need to ensure face service of a travel agency.
We are working on transforming we keep in step with our consumers evolving behaviour.
the traditional agency into the next-generation retail concept store to combine the expertise of our people with the latest One of the reasons cited for not booking online is the perceived technology as we move into a true multi-channel world.
We are working on personalising our interactions with customers so we can learn more about what Our Specialist businesses leverage a strong brand portfolio they are looking for, what they have booked in the past and offering everything from adventure and sailing holidays to what interests they have.
This in turn informs how we develop private jet tours.
We are investing in our online platforms to and tailor our product and service and how we can market to enhance booking and search functionality and provide our and retain these customers more effectively.
customers with inspirational content to showcase our products.
Having strong, recognisable brands plays a key role in the online how do we know this is working?
world, helping to increase direct traffic to our websites which Online sales across the Mainstream Sector are steadily increasing.
generally tends to have a higher conversion rate.
In FY13 online bookings made up 35% FY12: 33% of our holiday Focusing our distribution on direct channels reduces our reliance sales and we have clear strategic plans and targets in place on third-party agents and allows us to form a direct relationship to drive online sales further in all source markets see KPIs.
This also drives down our distribution costs.
All our Mainstream businesses have their core websites mobile Direct distribution allows us to have greater control over our enabled to take advantage of the growing proportion of their brands and how they are marketed and sold.
The clearer we online traffic coming through tablets and smartphones.
communicate about our brands and what they offer, the more 2013 highlights likely we are to develop loyal customers who will become TUI Nordic has opened new retail concept stores across its four ambassadors, helping us acquire new customers.
markets which act as a branding and marketing channel supporting what are we doing about it?
online sales as well as being a sales channel in their own right.
TUI Travel is focused on being an online-driven business The UK opened the first retail concept store in the Bluewater providing customers with an easy and inspiring online shopping centre.
The shop includes next-generation design experience.
Online-driven refers to the entire customer principles featuring user-generated content, digital billboards journey: inspiration, planning, booking, pre-departure, and interactive features.
the holiday experience and returning home and sharing.
Our Mainstream businesses have over 2.5m Facebook fans 2013 saw the creation of the Mainstream Distribution & Online with an industry leading rate of engagement.
co. uk team providing support to all source markets and sharing best was awarded the No.
1 Socially Devoted business in the UK practice on digital matters, retail operations, CRM and ancillaries.
by Social Bakers, for the level of social customer service.
This has led to the standardisation of several processes and the Within our Specialist portfolio, our ski brand Crystal is increasing proliferation of best practice across markets with immediate its direct distribution by reducing reliance on third-party agencies, financial benefit.
and introducing price parity across online and offline channels.
distribution is key to the successful performance of our online Accommodation businesses why?
As an online-only business, it is critical we provide our In Accommodation OTA our focus is to build on our brand customers with an effective and easy-to-use search and booking positioning of lateRooms.
com in the UK and expand in the experience.
In this arena, having excellent digital presentation emerging markets through AsiaRooms.
com and in Brazil with and user experience is as important as good content.
This the acquisition of MalaPronta.
means that the details website response time, usability of how do we know this is working?
Furthermore, consumers are Accommodation Wholesaler saw a 50% growth in the number increasingly expecting a seamless experience across all devices of XMl links between their inventory and travel agencies so the mobile and tablet experience should match the booking systems, with half of these being in the Middle East traditional desktop experience.
Maintaining our reputation is important to our Accommodation LateRooms.
com was the most recognised Accommodation Wholesaler brands as the business is built on retaining OTA brand in the UK during FY13 with 63% brand awareness.
customers who are loyal because of the service and product associated with our brand name.
2013 highlights Growing our customer base in the competitive OTA market Our Accommodation Wholesaler travel agency distribution requires a combination of good brand awareness and strong channel, Bedsonline, has seen an year-on-year increase of online visibility in organic and paid search, together with a clear 60% in travel agent bookings.
eCRM strategy to drive customer loyalty and repeat bookings.
We have launched the first stage of our eCRM personalisation strategy in our Accommodation OTA businesses in order to what are we doing about it?
grow new and repeat bookings.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business is currently building a large client base to grow intra-regional and domestic penetration mainly in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Americas and Africa.
indd 19 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 20 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort HOW WE DO IT: Our five strategic drivers 3. technology technoloGy cASe Study Providing seamless interaction for our customers In July, we launched the award-winning TUI Digital Assistant in the form of the MyThomson mobile app, which allows customers to access information about and plan their holidays from the moment they book, through until their departure and even whilst on holiday.
The app includes everything from flight information and luggage allowance details, to maps to help customers plan the best route to the airport.
The personalised holiday countdown can also be shared via social networks such as Facebook and Twitter.
The MyThomson iPhone app was the most popular free travel app shortly after launch and had over 180,000 downloads in its first few months following release.
Post year end we have rolled out the TUI Digital Assistant in the German source market with the launch of the Meine TUI mobile app and will continue this roll out to source markets across the Group.
One of the main advantages of this technology is that we have one development cost that benefits all our markets.
indd 20 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 21 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION technology underpins the distribution investment in technology is essential and content pillars of our strategy for our online based accommodation businesses why?
Fast-changing customer demands require us to have why?
a modern and flexible technological platform.
One of the success factors for Accommodation OTA is the It enables us to best showcase our product and user experience on the website.
In a competitive market communicate with and sell to our customers effectively.
it is what keeps a customer on the website and converts them from looking to booking.
By implementing robust back-end finance and reservation systems we can support business operations and also To ensure smooth back and front office operations we provide reliable and actionable management information.
need to have efficient finance and reservation systems.
This also provides us with valuable management Having an efficient technology infrastructure allows us to information about our customers preferences.
drive efficiencies and therefore provides further value to our customers.
Our customers range in type from businesses to individuals, and are based all over the world.
We need to what are we doing about it?
ensure we have the latest technology platforms, that can Within Mainstream, we are in the process of upgrading our adapt to the evolving needs of this broad customer base.
web front-end reservation and finance systems across all what are we doing about it?
These technology upgrades will provide our websites with new search functionalities, improved Both Accommodation Wholesaler and Accommodation personalisation and richer content as well as enhanced OTA businesses are supported by efficient IT platforms.
mobile capability as our customers increasingly research Accommodation Wholesaler operational systems are being and book their holidays on mobile devices.
upgraded in order to be able to continue improving service Our Specialist businesses have made good progress in delivery to its global customers.
consolidating their finance and reservation systems to In our Accommodation OTA business we are continuing to leverage our scale across multiple brands and continue on invest in a new platform to support our growth strategy.
their journey of standardisation, while balancing the varied how do we know this is working?
requirements of the different holiday experiences they offer.
Accommodation Wholesalers in-house platform is one how do we know this is working?
of the most robust, flexible and user-friendly in the The Thomson & First Choice websites have recently industry, allowing for quick connectivity with hotel suppliers gone through a major front-end overhaul.
This includes as well as our customer base of travel agencies, tour incorporating Broad Search flexible date, departure and operators and OTAs.
destination options, self-validating search and filtering Accommodation OTAs platform with the new onsite into the holiday search process.
This has already resulted search and improved customer experience is providing in a vastly improved look-to-book ratio.
more relevant search results and delivering site speed improvements.
2013 highlights In the spring we launched the MyThomson Digital Assistant 2013 highlights app in the UK with plans to launch in other markets soon.
Accommodation Wholesalers online platform recorded This provides a one-stop shop for booked customers to on average 1.5bn searches per month in FY13.
Room purchase excursions, create a holiday checklist and review nights grew by 16% see KPIs on page 38. resort and destination information.
Upon launch it was In FY13 mobile-optimised websites were delivered ranked as the number one free travel app in the Apple for lateRooms, AsiaRooms and MalaPronta.
Store and downloads to date stand at over 180,000. in fy13 Accommodation wholesalers online platform recorded on average 1.5bn searches per month 3  v82 copy.
Growth & Scale Growth & ScAle cASe Study Consolidating our market-leading position The Greek island of Kos is a prime example of how the Mainstream Sector is utilising its potential for growth, with three of our largest source markets reporting substantial successes on the island.
Kos has become one of TUI Netherlands most successful destinations, reporting growth of 13% year-on-year.
The market share of 35% of overall Dutch passengers to the island can mainly be attributed to differentiated products of which Puravida and KidsClubs are the most successful, whilst its share of exclusive accommodation in Kos has risen to 33%.
last summer, TUI Nordic re-launched Kos as a destination through an extensive line-up of differentiated concepts.
The brand was the market leader for trips to Kos in Summer 2013, and received consistently high customer satisfaction.
Over the past three years, our UK & Ireland Mainstream programme to Kos has grown by 48%.
This, coupled with the success of TUI Nordic and Netherlands, highlights how we are successfully expanding our business through a well-executed strategy.
indd 22 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 23 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION our scale and potential for growth Scale is a critical success factor for make us unique any online accommodation business why?
No other leisure travel business operates in as many In a price-driven, lower-margin business, it is imperative for markets and has as many customers as we do.
The travel us to achieve high volumes and leverage common platforms market nonetheless remains highly dynamic and competitive and economies of scale in order to gain competitive and it is therefore essential to seize new growth advantage.
opportunities and maintain our market-leading positions.
what are we doing about it?
leveraging our scale and driving further synergies and TUI Travel is a firm market leader in the Accommodation cost efficiencies also enables us to provide added value Wholesaler market with operations in over 100 countries.
We are continuing to follow our strategy of consolidating what are we doing about it?
our market-leading position by expanding in existing destinations whilst focusing on our development in both new 2013 saw us approach scale in a different way with the source markets, as well as new destinations, with particular creation of the Mainstream Board.
focus on Asia, latin America and Africa.
This gave focus to our efforts to leverage our scale across Within the Accommodation OTA division we cover three all source markets to consolidate our market-leading position attractive markets: and grow the number of customers travelling with us.
lateRooms has maintained its position as number 2 Growth in new markets remains an important area of focus in the accommodation-only OTA space in the UK.
Our Russian tour operator business has aim to continue delivering growth by developing new given us a position in this market and we continue to seek distribution channels and new customer segments in opportunities in markets like Brazil and China.
In our Specialist & Activity Sector we continue to review AsiaRooms is now an established and growing brand opportunities to leverage our successful brands in new in the Asia-Pacific region.
last year we acquired MalaPronta.
com, Brazils fourth how do we know this is working?
largest accommodation-only OTA, which helps TUI Travel In 2013 we successfully delivered on our profit growth establish a presence in this fast-growing and lucrative roadmap of 7% to 10% as set out at the beginning of the market.
We are confident in continuing this performance.
2013 highlights Our Accommodation Wholesaler business has experienced As a result of the formation of the Mainstream Board, it was 30% year-on-year TTv growth in emerging source markets decided to consolidate our Mainstream purchasing and digital Americas and Asia.
teams as well as combining the efforts of our destination 2013 highlights services team in resort.
This has allowed us to maximise In Accommodation Wholesaler global efficiencies were economies of scale and will continue to drive further achieved by managing operations though centralised global efficiencies see Our People on page 34. and regional platforms.
A good example of this is moving In May we further enhanced our offer with the delivery of from 24 finance centres to three global shared service the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
This has meant we have been centres.
able to extend our long-haul programme and vastly Our Accommodation OTA business is continuously working improve our customers flying experience.
on device-optimised sites and apps to meet growing Following a shareholder meeting in July, a proposal was demand.
accepted to purchase 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft showing the confidence and faith in the Companys ability to grow.
Our Specialist & Activity Sector underwent a restructure in late 2012 which led to the creation of two management portfolios: grouping Marine, Specialist Holidays Group and Ski together and uniting Education, North American Specialist and Sport.
The aim was to facilitate better sharing of expertise and knowledge across divisions.
in 2013 we successfully delivered on our profit growth roadmap of 7-10% as set out at the beginning of the year 3  v82 copy.
People PeoPle cASe Study The Big Picture The TUI Travel Big Picture was introduced in November 2012 to help bring to life our Group strategy, vision and strong growth plans in a dynamic and engaging way.
Supporting our open and honest culture, the Big Picture is designed to help drive colleague understanding, creating a dialogue about the path that were on and the role each of us has to play in the future success of our business, working together to achieve our goals.
Using an image to convey strategy and direction helps to make it more clear, consistent and memorable.
In the UK & Ireland, more than half of our people could identify all three of our business goals unprompted following a conversation about the Big Picture.
Before this, only 20% could mention one of the business goals.
For more information about the Big Picture, please see the Our people section on page 34 3  v82 copy.
indd 24 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 StrAteGic rePort 25 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION People are the key driver of any People are a key differentiator online business where agility, speed at tui travel and innovation are essential elements why?
of success At all levels of our business the experience, knowledge and customer focus of our employees is what helps us hold our why?
Attracting and retaining talent is increasingly gaining The holiday experience itself, and the resulting satisfaction priority in a market characterised by rapid changes and and loyalty of our customers, depends on their face-to-face high competition.
interaction with our employees and the service they receive.
Building a strong brand proposition to acquire and keep Investing in the training and development of our people to the best online talent.
ensure that they have the right skills and expertise to provide Identifying knowledge gaps within the organisation and us with a real competitive advantage.
providing colleagues with the necessary tools and skills Communicating with colleagues regularly, honestly and to succeed in the online world.
openly, whether it be informal blog posts from the Board, Developing an online-driven culture where employees or organised Town Hall meetings providing updates on are encouraged to keep abreast of the latest trends whilst the strategy and five-year plans of the business.
providing an environment which fosters new ideas and Enhancing our existing development programmes for innovation.
senior managers and executives, as well as adding a new The mobile and evolving nature of our business requires programme for junior managers.
All three programmes are we look beyond European boundaries when it comes to modular and are designed to educate and share ideas on sourcing talent.
TUI Travel continues to tap into the vast trends as well as share knowledge and increase visibility talent pool of markets like Brazil and South East Asia to across the Group to encourage mobility and synergy.
fuel our global growth ambitions.
Our International Graduate leadership Programme how do we know this is working?
continues to attract high calibre global-minded individuals Similar to our Tour Operator businesses we measure levels interested in and suited to careers in our dynamic, of colleague engagement and NPS to gauge employee fast-paced industry see Our People on page 34. sentiment on matters such as senior leadership direction, Half-yearly talent reviews ensure that we monitor the career development and day-to-day job satisfaction, and talent and capabilities within our organisation and have ensure that we score highly.
clear succession plans in place for business critical roles.
2013 highlights The leadership & Development team has been centralised to provide a more holistic view of the business and allow High number of participants from the Sector in Group for talent recognition and development support across management development programmes, such as all Sectors and functions.
We use colleague engagement and employee Net Promoter Score NPS as a barometer of employee sentiment.
Current results show TUI Travel scoring well on both counts and we have targets in place, supported by cohesive plans, to exceed current performance.
2013 highlights We added a new development programme called Perspectives aimed at talent in the early stages of their career see Our People on page 34.
Our new internal careers portal launched in July bringing together TUI Travels global vacancies for the first time, increasing the visibility of opportunities available across our Group.
in fy13 we enhanced our collection of development programmes, adding Perspectives aimed at junior management 3  v82 copy.
indd 25 13 12 2013 17:41 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 26 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT How we do it: Sustainable development Travel and tourism is one of the worlds largest industries.
Governance The growth and employment it creates makes it of critical Commitment at the most senior level is vital for us to achieve our goal of leading the leisure travel sector in sustainable development.
importance to the global economy.
However, from a Johan Lundgren, Deputy Chief Executive, is the TUI Travel PLC Board sustainable development perspective, the industrys high sponsor for sustainable development and Jacky Simmonds, Group HR dependency on fossil fuel, natural resources and biodiversity Director, is responsible for reporting on sustainable development to poses a challenge, one which our businesses have been the Group Management Board.
Jane Ashton is the Director of Group addressing for over a decade.
Our vision is to make travel Sustainable Development.
The Group Management Board acts as the Steering Committee, setting the strategic direction and long-term experiences special whilst minimising environmental impact, objectives for sustainable development across the Group.
respecting culture and people and bringing economic benefits The role of Group Sustainable Development is to drive change towards to communities.
a more sustainable business and to forge leadership in our industry Our commitment to Responsible Leadership is widely acknowledged.
The team works closely with other parts of the Group and a FY13 we were pleased that our performance was recognised as follows: network of sustainable development coordinators in each key source market Sector who have a remit to develop and implement sustainable For the sixth consecutive year, TUI Travel was featured in CDPs development strategy, supported by a network of champions.
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI and was ranked in the top 10% of the FTSE 350 for our approach to carbon disclosure Risk management and governance.
TUI Travel was the only Travel & Leisure company to feature in the 2013 CDLI and the only company to feature for the Policy and mitigation for Group-wide risks relating to sustainability are sixth year running.
net facilitated by Group Risk Management and Sustainable Development, with responsibility for managing such risks also shared by the TUI Travel was recognised by Carbon Clear for its approach to businesses themselves.
Increasing legislative and societal demands on carbon reporting, ranking the Company joint sixth in the FTSE 100 an organisation like ours require that we act responsibly and identify in its annual survey.
com uk and manage our risks effectively.
We continue to be listed on the FTSE4Good Index in recognition Key areas of risk identified are: of meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards.
Legislative and societal demands in relation to size and For the third consecutive year TUI Travel was featured in the management of TUI Travel PLCs carbon footprint RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook which highlights the best performing 15% of companies who submit data to the Dow Jones Actions of colleagues need to uphold TUI Travels sustainable Sustainability Index the largest 2,500 companies globally.
com yearbook Actions of suppliers need to uphold TUI Travels environmental For further details on awards and our latest Sustainable and social supplier standards Holidays Report, see www.
com sustainability To understand better the socio-economic impacts of tourism Concern over damage to and quality of destinations due to ecosystem degradation and climate change Growing expectation among our customers regarding sustainability issues For further information about sustainability risks and how we manage them see our latest Sustainable Holidays Report.
We have also identified sustainability risks within the Principal Risks section, see page 42 FY13 highlights 70.7g 3.8m 6 years of CO2 emissions per revenue customers stayed TUI Travel is the only passenger kilometre across in hotels with sustainability company to be listed TUI Travel airlines making certifications in CDPs Climate Disclosure our airlines some of the most Leadership Index for fuel efficient in Europe six consecutive years 4  v46 copy.
S v l a l a E l l i E r d E D w r e e a n e r t v N W e E e e r I l g A R C D S & C TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT 27 BUSInESS AnD FInAnCIAL REvIEW DIRECToRS REPoRT FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS SHAREHoLDER InFoRMATIon our Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012-14 Our three-year Sustainable Holidays Plan was launched in 2012 and marks our journey towards For further details visit our latest a more sustainable future.
It reflects significant integration of environmental and social Sustainable Holidays Report principles into the way we do business performance measures, processes and the customer www.
It sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments in our priority Our Sustainable Holidays Report 2013 areas taking care in destinations, reducing carbon emissions and engaging our colleagues and is due out in Spring 2014. customers in sustainability.
Our Sustainable Holidays Plan aligns with our corporate strategy.
vISIoN mAKING TRAvEl EXpERIENCES SpECIAl whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting culture and people and bringing economic benefits to communities 4  v46 copy.
C N f r C f E Y T 28 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT HoW WE Do IT GoAl BY 2015 we will deliver 10 million Sustainable development greener and fairer holidays We will measure this by the number of customers we take to hotels with credible sustainability certifications from 2012 Destinations to 2014, e. g. sustainability certifications working with the Global Sustainable Tourism Council such as Travelife, and international environmental management standards such as ISo 14001 and EMAS.
We are involved in hundreds of projects that support communities Travel and tourism accounts for 9% of the worlds GDP and reduce environmental impacts.
Where we can, we focus on the and 6% of global exports UnWTo, 2013.
Tourism also destinations where we send the most customers and where we believe accounts for 1 in 11 jobs globally UnWTo, 2013 and is the we can make the greatest difference.
In FY13 this included Brazil, main source of foreign exchange in one-third of developing Cape verde, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Greece, Kenya, countries UnEP, 2011.
The leisure travel industry can have Mexico, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey.
both positive and negative impacts on communities and FY13 highlights the natural environment the challenge is how to manage We featured over 1,200 hotels with sustainability certifications.
these impacts for the greatest good.
We took 3.8 million customers to hotels with credible sustainability our business case certifications.
We want our holidays to benefit local livelihoods and protect the We organised many sustainability supplier workshops, for example environment, and in doing so maintain the quality, viability and in the Costa del Sol, Italy, Kos, Madeira, Mallorca and Rhodes.
desirability of our products for years to come.
Were working with TUI UK & Ireland worked with blueContec and Responsible stakeholders in destinations around the world to make this a reality.
Hospitality Partnership to provide their differentiated hotels with TUI Travel has a global supply chain, and our suppliers are the driving dedicated environmental consultancy.
of the circa 40 hotels who force for improving our sustainability performance in our destinations.
participated, reductions in energy and water consumption have Each of them plays a significant role in managing our impacts on the already generated cost savings of nearly Euros 2 million to date.
local community, economy and environment.
TUI nederland was the first major travel company to be certified We are committed to influencing more hotels to achieve credible to the new Travelife standard for tour operators.
sustainability certifications, so as to be assured that our suppliers are We were actively involved in the development of the industrys first making continual sustainability improvements.
This not only improves ever Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism, produced our sustainability performance, but also benefits our suppliers.
by ABTA The Travel Association, and launched in June 2013.
TUI Depending on the region, energy costs account for between 5% and Travel provided support for the guidelines at a launch event at the 15% of a hotels turnover blueContec, 2012, so reducing energy EU Parliament in Brussels and we continue to audit our suppliers use can have a significant impact on the bottom line.
Were already against animal welfare standards.
helping many of our hotels by training them on eco-efficiencies, TUI Deutschland has partnered with GIZ to support a major project which ultimately delivers better value for money for our customers.
In year two of the project, seminars took place with hotel Engaging in sustainability can help hotels differentiate their product, managers on sustainability and equal opportunities for women, meet growing customer demand, and protect their destinations.
hotel staff were trained on service quality and customer satisfaction There is also evidence that our most sustainably-managed hotels are and linkages created between local women artisans and hotels.
those which are delivering higher quality and customer satisfaction.
1,200 370 We featured over Over 370 hoteliers and 1,200 hotels which had other stakeholders attended sustainability certifications our supplier sustainability workshops in FY13 For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report www.
indd 28 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT 29 BUSInESS AnD FInAnCIAL REvIEW DIRECToRS REPoRT FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS SHAREHoLDER InFoRMATIon Jetair and Jetairfly received the sustainable tourism award at the human rights Travel Magazine Travel Awards in 2012.
TUI Travel PLC acknowledges the Un Guiding Principles on Business In november 2012, TUI Travel formed a three-year partnership with and Human Rights and has many policies and initiatives in place to the German Government Development agency GIZ, The Code and identify, prevent, mitigate and account for how we are addressing other industry partners to focus on child protection in Thailand.
We continue to work with stakeholders to understand better and respond to these issues.
Hotelbeds and Blue Travel Partner Services officially partnered with UnICEF in the Dominican Republic to protect children from We have a Group employee Code of Conduct which covers a wide exploitation.
range of human rights including discrimination and working conditions and commits TUI Travel to upholding the principles of the Un Global TUI nederland won the overall winner award and the Best for Compact.
The Company also has HR policies see page 34, Health child protection award at the 2013 World Responsible Tourism & Safety policies see page 52, an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy Awards.
This achievement came as a result of their long-term see page 71 and a Whistle-blowing Policy see page 71 addressing commitment to the cause: in implementing colleague training, raising key human rights.
TUI Travels Mainstream businesses are signed up awareness amongst travellers and a project in Brazil which helps to the international Child Protection Code and support several child vulnerable adolescents find a job in the tourism industry.
Travel was also Highly Commended for its work on child protection over the last 20 years.
In 2013, TUI Travel launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct for all suppliers including hoteliers.
The code sets out the minimum standards We aim to influence the sustainable management of key destinations.
we expect from suppliers and their employees, contractors, agents We have been working with the Travel Foundation in Cyprus, which and subsidiaries when working on our behalf.
The code covers human includes the integration of minimum sustainability standards into rights and labour laws, support for local communities, environmental the islands national hotel quality rating system, and in Cape verde, impacts, and bribery and corruption.
where we have helped to set up a destination council to tackle sustainability issues using a multi-stakeholder approach.
We are actively encouraging our hotel suppliers to implement credible sustainability certifications.
The majority of businesses across the We are conscious of the pressures that tourism can place on local Group promote Travelife, which incorporates the principles of the populations and resources and therefore work collaboratively with Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code.
Travelife recognises hotels which communities, governments and a range of other partners to support care for the environment, their employees and the local community.
the sustainable management of destinations.
Examples include: We have been working with Travelife to strengthen criteria around ABTA The Travel Association, the Born Free Foundation, Deutscher human rights and these will be launched in 2014.
We are also working Reiseverband, Dutch Association of Travel Agents & Tour operators, with ABTA and industry peers to address key concerns on human GIZ, Global Sustainable Tourism Council, The Tour operators Initiative, rights issues collectively.
To read our policies, visit: www.
com A DECADE oF CollABoRATIoN TUI Travel has been working with the Travel Foundation, a sustainable tourism charity, since it launched in 2003.
During this decade of partnership, the Travel Foundation has supported us on our sustainability journey, providing a wide range of resources and expertise and collaborating with the business on strategic projects that have helped it address the sustainability issues facing the travel and tourism sector.
We are the largest industry supporter and donor to The Travel Foundation, which over the last 10 years has trained more than 10,000 local people in skills to boost tourism, reduce environmental impacts and improve customer experience and also trained 800 hotels to reduce energy, water and waste.
We have raised over 4 million since 2003 and we won the Contribution to the Community Award at the 2013 TTG Travel Awards for our outstanding work with the Travel Foundation.
uk For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report www.
indd 29 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 30 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT HoW WE Do IT GoAl BY 2015 we will operate Europes most Sustainable development fuel-efficient airlines and save more than 20,000 tonnes of carbon from our ground operations We will measure this through TUI Travel Carbon airlines average carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK and CO saved 2 2 from our major premises, retail outlets, brochure paper production, differentiated hotels and fleets of vehicles against FY11 baseline.
We aim to operate Europes most fuel-efficient airlines and to continue Travel and tourism are responsible for around 5% of global to invest in cutting edge aviation technology.
In FY13, TUI Travel CO emissions UnEP, 2011.
As a leading leisure travel 2 airlines total carbon emissions were 5,101,532 tonnes.
Emissions company, our challenge is to prepare for a low carbon future from aviation make up approximately 90% of our Companys carbon by further reducing our environmental impacts and helping footprint.
Our target is to reduce TUI Travel airlines per passenger our suppliers do the same.
Carbon management is a carbon emissions by 9% by 2015 baseline 2008.
In FY13, we met this target, reducing our average per passenger carbon emissions by 9.3% priority for TUI Travel: our airlines carbon efficiency is one against our baseline.
of the Companys key performance indicators see page 38.
Our carbon management strategy covers aviation, We have developed our position on aviation and climate change in partnership with key stakeholders, whose insight and guidance have hotels, major premises, retail shops, water transport and helped us to identify how we can play a leading role in campaigning ground transport emissions.
our business case Read our Campaigning for smarter carbon legislation article here: www.
com sustainability It makes sense, both from a business and from an environmental and watch our Transparency in carbon reporting video.
perspective, for us to embed carbon management into our key business practices.
FY13 highlights Predictable weather, comfort and an attractive local environment are CO per revenue passenger kilometre RPK across TUI Travel 2 critical factors in the quality of the holiday experiences we provide for airlines of 70.7g vs 73.0g in FY12 an improvement of 3.2% our customers.
Climate change could negatively impact on all three of making us one of the most efficient airlines in Europe and beyond.
these factors, and is therefore a business risk for TUI Travel see our 2013 CDP submission for further details.
TUIfly was ranked the most climate-efficient charter airline worldwide for the second year in a row and most climate-efficient We have also identified climate change-related regulation as a material airline in the world with more than one million passengers in the issue for the Company see page 51.
We monitor and are prepared for 2013 atmosfair Airline Index.
Thomson Airways was ranked second regulatory proposals on climate change such as the UK Governments most climate-efficient airline for short haul flights.
mandatory greenhouse gas reporting requirements see below.
TUIfly achieved ISo 14001 certification an international our focus on energy and fuel efficiency allows us to make significant environmental management standard.
Across TUI Travel, improved management of energy, natural resources and fuel across our operations has saved 16 million 94% of our aircraft are now fitted with fuel-saving blended in FY12.
winglets, reducing fuel burn by up to 5%.
AIRlINE GhG EmISSIoNS DATA FoR pERIoD 1 oCToBER 2012 30 SEpTEmBER 2013 INTENSITY RElATIvE mETRIC gCO Revenue gCO e Revenue 2 2 Passenger Passenger TUI Travel airlines Km Km For full details on ArkeFly 73.5g 74.3g the methodology 76% used to calculate Corsair 80.5g 81.4g TUIfly nordic, Thomson our intensity Jetairfly 73.9g 74.7g Airways and TUIfly are metrics and all ISo 14001 certified Thomson Airways 69.5g 70.2g PwCs Assurance covering 76% of our aircraft Report please visit TUIfly 65.5g 66.2g www.
TUIfly nordic 63.1g 63.7g com sustainability TUI Travel airlines average 70.7g 71.4g carbon For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
indd 30 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT 31 BUSInESS AnD FInAnCIAL REvIEW DIRECToRS REPoRT FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS SHAREHoLDER InFoRMATIon TUI Travel airlines will be the first in Europe to use the new Greenhouse gas emissions innovative Split Scimitar Winglets, reducing fuel burn by an TUI Travel has reported on all of the greenhouse gas GHG emission additional 2% modified aircraft will begin flying from early 2014. sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The organisational boundary We made a commitment to purchase 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, used for its Scope 1 & 2 and, where appropriate, Scope 3 inventory with improved fuel-efficiency 2018 delivery onwards.
of GHG emissions is operational control and it corresponds to the Thomson Airways took delivery of their first batch of Boeing 787 Companys consolidated financial statements.
Dreamliner aircraft, which are forecast to emit 20% less CO 2 For the first time TUI Travel is disclosing carbon dioxide equivalent per passenger kilometre than comparable aircraft today.
CO e data for both its absolute and relative e. g. airline emissions, 2 Ultramar, our largest ground transport company, has installed historically we have just disclosed CO emissions.
CO e refers to CO 2 2 2 satellite navigation in all vehicles to monitor fuel consumption, and the other five Kyoto GHGs: Methane CH : nitrous oxide n O : 4 2 distances travelled, driver performance and route optimisation.
Hydrofluorocarbons HFCs : Perfluorocarbons PFCs : and Sulphur hexafluoride SF.
We implemented a web-based sustainability data software solution.
6 This software enables us to further improve data accuracy, All material GHG emissions have been included and disclosed following provide advanced monitoring and reporting tools and increase a thorough review of entities and the emissions sources across the data collection frequency.
Companys UK and international operations.
The methodology for the assessment is based on voluntary and mandatory GHG reporting Sawadee, one of our Dutch tour operators, received the Best Carbon guidance issued by DEFRA the UK Governments Environment Reduction Initiative award in november 2012 at the World Responsible Department.
Please see tables below for our absolute and intensity Tourism Awards for identifying effective ways of reducing the carbon CO e and CO data for FY13.
2 2 Sunsail achieved certification by the British Standards Institute BSI to the sustainable event management ISo 20121 standard, An approximate figure of Group savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments required to achieve those savings in 2012.
Part of previously identified cost savings.
which recognises organisations that maximise economic, social and The Companys auditors,  PwC, have verified the carbon intensity environmental opportunities at their events.
metrics displayed in the table on page 30 PwC also assure our airline EU Emissions Trading Scheme data.
To read our airline carbon data methodology document and PwCs Assurance We have developed collaborative partnerships with many stakeholders Report in full, please visit: whose insight and guidance continue to help us develop our position www.
com sustainability carbon on aviation and climate change.
Examples include: AlgaePARC in the netherlands, Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany AIREG, CDP, Forum for the Future, Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group SAFUG and Sustainable Aviation in the UK.
GloBAl GhG EmISSIoNS DATA FoR pERIoD BREAKDowN oF TuI TRAvElS CARBoN FooTpRINT 1 oCToBER 2012 30 SEpTEmBER 2013 ABSoluTE FIGuRES TUI Travel airlines and aviation 88.4% CO [t] CO e [t] 2 2 tonnes of tonnes of carbon Water transport 4.4% Source carbon dioxide dioxide equivalent Ground transport 0.5% FY13 Total scope 1 Major premises 0.5% 2 201 012 2 1 13 3 emissions 5,936,608 5,999,276 Differentiated hotels 5.3% Total scope 2 Other indirect emissions including business emissions 303,759 305,230 Scope 1 covers travel by air 0.8% direct emissions Other scope 3 Scope 2 & 3 emissions 52,084 52,271 covers indirect Grand total 6,292,451 6,356,777 emissions For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
indd 31 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 32 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT HoW WE Do IT GoAl BY 2015 our colleagues will rate Sustainable development TuI Travel as a leader in sustainability We will measure this through the Your voice global employee opinion survey Colleagues results aiming to meet High Performing Company scores for responsibility towards the environment and community for all colleagues and senior leaders.
Our colleagues are crucial to delivering our commitments on FY13 highlights sustainability.
We want them to be engaged, knowledgeable Many sustainability awareness-raising events took place.
For example, TUI Travel colleagues in many destinations supported the Travel and enthusiastic about sustainability and we believe that Foundations Make Holidays Greener month in July.
In Greece we this will drive recruitment and loyalty to TUI Travel.
helped organise a high-profile beach clean-up in Zante, attended by the British Ambassador to Greece.
our business case our sustainability commitments were integrated into the Groups Research shows that a companys reputation is increasingly important Big Picture an innovative way that we engage colleagues in TUI to todays employees, who seek synergy between their own and their Travels strategy and vision see page 34. employers values.
Our HR colleagues regularly hear from new starters that TUI Travels sustainability performance influenced their choice of Colleagues from across the Group were involved in community TUI Travel as a prospective employer.
volunteering initiatives, such as TUI Indias colleagues who took part in a local school project in Delhi and A&D colleagues in the One of TUI Travels core values is Responsible Leadership, which is Dominican Republic improving the infrastructure of a school in increasingly embedded into how we measure behaviour and performance.
Research carried out by the non-profit organisation net Impact in 2012 shows employees who have the opportunity to make a direct social TUI nederland launched the TUI Care Foundation to support and environmental impact through their job report higher satisfaction environmental and community projects, giving retail colleagues levels than those who do not, by a factor of 2:1. the opportunity to vote for their favourite projects.
nl We communicate regularly about the progress were making on securing a sustainable future for our industry.
A key challenge is to make our We are working to engage our retail colleagues on sustainability.
Sustainable Holidays Plan accessible and practical for all colleagues.
A retail champions network has been set up at TUI UK & Ireland To this end we embed sustainability in recruitment material, our intranets, colleagues visited sustainable tourism projects in Turkey this newsletters, inductions, blogs by senior managers, dedicated films and summer and have now set sustainability targets for retail back in e-learning modules, as well as many other communication channels.
TUI nederland has included sustainability as part of retail mystery shopping checks.
We rolled out sustainability colleague focus groups to understand better our colleagues views on these issues and inform our communications strategy.
PEAK conducted a sustainability survey, asking colleagues to rank what they thought was a priority for their businesses and submit new ideas over 500 colleagues took part.
FAmIlY holIDAY ASSoCIATIoN We are the largest corporate sponsor of the Family Holiday Association FHA, a charity that provides simple breaks to disadvantaged 73 children and their families in the UK.
TUI UK & Ireland colleagues Since 2009 we have raised more than have spent 1-2 weeks volunteering overseas 1.9 million.
Peter Long, Chief Executive using their skills to support of TUI Travel, was appointed President sustainable tourism projects of the FHA on 1 October 2013. www.
uk For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
indd 32 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REpoRT 33 BUSInESS AnD FInAnCIAL REvIEW DIRECToRS REPoRT FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS SHAREHoLDER InFoRMATIon GoAl BY 2015 Customers will regard TuI Travel as a leader in delivering more sustainable holidays We will measure this by our performance in consumer research in our key source Customers markets.
Through the purchases they make and the actions they FY13 highlights take on holiday, our customers play a vital part in achieving At the end of 2012 we conducted international sustainability consumer research with 6,000 holidaymakers in six source markets TUI Travels Sustainable Holidays Plan.
Thats why we are and the findings were very similar to our research in 2010.
We found working to influence choice and develop new products that: to encourage customers to choose greener and fairer 1 in 2 consumers would be willing to book a more sustainable holidays and act responsibly when they are on holiday.
holiday if available our business case 2 in 3 consumers want their holiday company to be clear There is a growing awareness among our customers about sustainability, about what they do to make their holidays more sustainable such as the impact of carbon emissions from flying and the need to 2 in 3 consumers would change their behaviour on holiday ensure that local people get a fair deal from tourism.
Although these to help the environment issues are not the major deciding factor for most people when they choose a holiday, it is in the interest of our destinations and the We also found that Modern Mainstream consumers had a environment that it becomes a strong influencing factor.
In several of greater engagement with sustainability compared to traditional our key source markets we have found a positive correlation between Mainstream consumers.
more sustainable holidays and customer satisfaction.
We have developed an online platform called Spreading smiles We are encouraging holidaymakers to engage in sustainable tourism to bring our sustainability initiatives to life for customers and through our kids club activities, school education initiatives, customer colleagues.
com donation schemes and sustainable tourism campaigns.
Fritidsresor, our brand in Sweden, was ranked most sustainable travel company in Sweden in the 2013 Sustainable Brand Index.
Across the Group our businesses are working to reduce brochures and to use digital platforms throughout the customer journey.
For example, Thomson launched an award-winning MyThomson app, allowing users to look up and book excursions on their smart phones, as well as find out about local events in their resort.
TUI UK & Ireland reduced the number of brochure pages printed by 14% year-on-year.
TUI UK & Ireland won a Silver Award in the Interactive Category of the IvCA Clarion Awards 2013 for their eco-traveller programme.
The awards recognise best practice in communicating the importance of sustainability.
loCAl FooD TouRS pRovE populAR Intrepid Travel launched a new range of food trips in 2013, focusing on authentic, local food experiences and offering 380,000 travellers a well-priced alternative to number of UK school traditional, high-end gourmet food tours.
children who participated in the eco-traveller The trips score an average of 4.79 out of 5 programme in FY13 from passenger feedback and the range has been expanded to 19 trips in 2014.
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report www.
indd 33 13 12 2013 17:44 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 34 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 stRatEGIc REPoRt How we do it: Our people our people jacky says thank you Our team of 55,000 people working across the world in approximately contributing to our business performance are 180 countries is what makes TUI Travel what it is today and gives us a real advantage.
With our shared vision of making travel experiences 55,000 of our people, each bringing their unique special and our values of customer driven, playing to win, responsible talent, experience and knowledge to tuI travel.
leadership and value driven, we are all working towards the same only with invaluable input from such a wide strategy and strong growth plans for the future success of our cross-section of passionate, inspiring people, business.
can we continue to innovate and deliver holidays Engaging and involving our colleagues and travel services to satisfy ever changing With many brands and businesses across the world making up TUI customer requirements.
Travel, there are many more things that make us the same and bind us together than those things that could be regarded as differences.
The I would like to thank all of our people for their one shared vision and common values that we are all working towards hard work and commitment this year and for really strengthen our business directly and impacts on our making these results possible during what are performance.
At the start of the last financial year, we introduced a new and simple way to convey the business strategy and vision for the future through thank you.
The Group Management Board worked together with colleagues from across the world to develop the visual, ensuring it represents the whole Group, its core essence and where the business is heading, recognising the financial and economic factors that affect our performance.
Designed with lots of detail to stimulate discussion, the purpose of the Big Picture is for it to be used as a tool to have conversations with our jacky sImmonDs Group hR Director people to make sure that they understand our plans for the future, Jacky Simmonds joined First Choice in 2000 from Hearst Magazines UK The National Magazine Company where she and the part that they can play.
By using a picture we make sure that led the HR function for six years.
She was appointed as Group our story is clear, consistent and memorable.
It helps to ensure that HR Director in 2010 having previously held a number of senior our strategy and vision is understood and contributes to making our positions across the Group.
Jacky was appointed HR Director people feel engaged and motivated.
for TUI UK & Ireland in 2007 and, following the Merger, was central to the integration of the First Choice and Thomson The picture has been actively rolled out across our Group in all Sectors businesses.
Since her appointment in 2010, there is a more aligned approach to HR across the Group which includes the with the exception of the Specialist & Activity Sector where it will be creation of talent programmes, global functions for resourcing rolled out following completion of the Sectors restructuring.
and the development of an integrated HR strategy.
Jacky has experience of leading large-scale transformation programmes on both a local and global level.
DR VoLkER BttchER 4. johan LunDGREn For Executive biographies go to page 66 5.
DaVID BuRLInG managing Director, 6. mIttu sRIDhaRa Chief Information Officer tuI uk & Ireland Mittus main focus is transforming TUI Travel PLC into a David was appointed Managing Director for TUI UK & digital online business that is able to serve its customers Ireland TUI UK in October 2011.
David previously held Anywhere, Anytime, Any Way.
Mittu has led global the position of Commercial Director for TUI UK following technology teams and formulated and delivered several the merger of the Tourism Division of TUI AG and First multi-channel technology platforms and industry-leading Choice in September 2007.
David was key to the successful digital products.
Prior to this, Mittu has held senior IT roles integration of the businesses, ensuring that both brands at global organisations, starting his career at American had clear strategy for growth.
David first joined Thomson Airlines Decision Technologies and moving on to companies Holidays in 1990 and is now a member of the Mainstream including Sabre Holdings, the worlds leading provider of IT Sector Board.
In April 2012 he was appointed to the solutions decision support systems to the global travel and Group Management Board.
transportation sector, Ladbrokes PLC and AVIS Europe PLC.
Mittu has featured in the top 50 of the TechRepublic CIO50 list for several years.
indd 34 13 12 2013 17:46 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 stRatEGIc REPoRt 35 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION To measure whether we are meeting our people goals and ensuring Digitally enabling our people that we are continually driving improvement, our first TUI Travel With Online Driven being a key part of our strategy, we are committed Group-wide global opinion survey took place in September 2012 across to initiating and improving the digital literacy of our people across the all areas of the Group.
Work is well underway to address the survey world.
Our Digital Workplace vision is to create a single environment feedback and a number of changes have already been made.
As well that is available to our Group-wide colleagues anytime, anywhere, as local plans being in place across the Group, themes to come out of any way, which provides instant access to communications, colleague the survey included Opportunity, Pride and Trust.
The feedback around data, social interaction and working practices.
Creating a Digital Opportunity focused on increasing the visibility of career opportunities Workplace enables a transformation in our business culture, improving and a new internal careers portal was launched in July bringing together collaboration and efficiency in our working practices and increasing TUI Travels global vacancies for the first time see Global Mobility and the awareness of expertise and knowledge sharing.
This also supports the feedback around Pride and our our colleagues to become brand ambassadors enabling them to fully people wanting to feel part of one global business as we build and engage with our customers.
strengthen our TUI Travel identity as an employer.
Raised as part of Weve invested in a number of online tools to help support our people the Trust theme was leadership effectiveness and to help build trust to build on their knowledge and help with this shift in mind-set.
All of our through involvement and more focused employee communication, the colleagues now have access to E-consultancy, a global online resource TUI Travel Big Picture was introduced.
These areas will be measured providing digital training and materials.
again in the next survey when we will also be able to benchmark our results and measure how these may have changed.
Over the long-term, Our global Finance Academy continues to bring our Group-wide we strive to reach engagement levels that reflect high performance finance community together to share best practice and provide access and in 2012 we reached 64%.
to the latest training and guidance, raising their skills and capability.
The multi-lingual, secure, online Learning Management portal now has We also recognise that our people are incredibly knowledgeable about over 1,500 members across 42 countries with membership continuing their business areas and that they have some great insight and ideas to to grow.
Over 1,900 courses have been completed since the launch of offer.
There are a number of active employee representative forums in the Finance Academy in April 2013.
Sponsored by Will Waggott, CFO, place across the Group to ensure two-way feedback and involvement the Academy has already enabled us to create and deliver the ongoing raising matters of importance to our people and our business.
In addition, COSO internal control training, deliver targeted learning on Cash the Specialist & Activity Sectors Specialist Holidays Group has Management to senior finance staff, and provide best practice training involved everyone working in that area to drive their Darwin business and guidance on Financial Reporting through internal systems.
transformation project, giving them the opportunity to shape the way we work throughout the entire customer journey.
Operating in Within our Specialist & Activity Sector, the Specialist Holidays Group workstreams, the project has been driven entirely by ideas generated has introduced a Digital Academy boosting the digital talent pipeline, from employees at all levels, empowering the team and giving them providing all employees across the business with the opportunity to a vehicle to make a difference to the way we work.
apply for a six-month secondment to one of the digital teams.
Successful candidates are appointed a mentor for the duration of the placement and are provided with both external and on-the-job support.
Six placements have already taken place including employees from Commercial, Sales and Publishing.
5 6 7 8 9 7. anDREW john Group Director 8. chRIstIan cLEmEns managing Director, 9. joan VIL managing Director, secretariat, health & safety and Risk tuI Germany accommodation & Destinations Andrew John is a Solicitor who practised with the City Christian Clemens joined the Group Management Board After developing his professional career in the law firm of Coward Chance prior to taking up a career in July 2012.
Prior to this, he was CEO of TUI Nordic from Destination Services Division of the Barcel Travel in industry.
He held the post of Director, Legal Affairs 2009 to 2012, joining the Company as General Manager Group, Joan Vil was appointed Managing Director of at Unisys Limited followed by various senior legal and Sweden in 2004 and then becoming responsible for the Division in 1999, which was integrated into First commercial positions at Vickers PLC, which culminated Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden as COO of TUI Choice Holidays PLC First Choice in 2000.
In November in his appointment to the Vickers Board in 1994 as Nordic in 2007.
Between 1989 and 2004 Christian held 2002, he became a member of First Choices Group Commercial Director and Company Secretary.
In that a number of senior roles with Thomas Cook Northern Management Board.
Joan is currently the Managing role he led several high profile acquisitions and disposals.
Christian graduated as an engineer in Industrial Director of the Accommodation & Destinations Sector Prior to his current role, Andrew was Group Legal Economy.
of TUI Travel PLC and is also on the Group Management Director & Company Secretary of First Choice, and Board.
He has an MBA from IESE, a degree in Economics subsequently TUI Travel.
from the University of Barcelona and has completed international business school programmes with Columbia Business School and IMD.
indd 35 13 12 2013 17:46 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 36 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 stRatEGIc REPoRt How we do it: Our people continued With two intakes per year, another five graduates joined our team in Investing in our leaders September 2013 from the UK, Germany, Romania and Spain.
To reflect At TUI Travel, we know that to deliver our strategy and ensure our the increasing globalisation of our business, we focus on attracting future growth, we need talent, strong leadership and development graduates with an international mind-set and a professional approach opportunities for all.
suitable for our fast-paced, ever changing environment.
There is a Leadership at TUI Travel is about engaging and empowering people mentoring programme in place providing support throughout the whilst delivering results and managing performance.
To ensure this, 18-month programme and senior leaders are committed to meeting our Global High Performance Leadership programme focuses on and developing the graduates through specific assignments in their the development of our high-potential senior leaders, equipping businesses.
Speaking a minimum of two languages including English, them to support our commercial business growth and strategy.
our graduates are provided with significant international commercial Sponsored by the Deputy Chief Executive and MD of Mainstream, business exposure across the Group with the aim for them to become Johan Lundgren, the programme aims to enhance strategic thinking emerging leaders within 3-4 years.
and leadership skills, creating the foundation for more active Within TUI UK & Ireland, a placement scheme for university students collaboration across the Group.
Held at the prestigious IMD business takes place each year providing 8-10 people on a sandwich degree school in Switzerland, around 20 leaders participate each year and course a placement in Trading, Product, Purchasing, Cruise and are set real high strategic priority business challenges to create e-commerce.
Having run successfully for five years, the scheme has tangible business improvement plans.
won, and been shortlisted for, a number of awards including Best Reinforcing this, our suite of Global High Potential Learning & Overall Placement Scheme from National Council for Work Experience Development programmes has been designed for our talent in the early 2010 and regularly features in the Top 10 Placement schemes stages of their careers or who have been identified as successors to by RateMyPlacement.
co. uk in which it is currently seventh in the commercial senior leadership roles in the future.
Sponsored by Joan Vil, medium-sized scheme category.
48 students have completed this MD Accommodation & Destinations Sector, about 80 people take part scheme since it was introduced, with an additional eight joining for in Perspectives each year, widening their understanding of the Group the 2013 14 year.
13 students who have completed the scheme have strategy, our expectations of future leaders and helping to drive the returned to the business on completion of their degree, with eight mobility of talent across the Group, supporting our global leadership currently working in the business.
Our Horizons programme is also supported by members of the This business also has the leading employer apprenticeship GMB who attend sessions and spend time with the circa 40 delegates programme in the UK & Ireland travel sector.
Working in partnership that take part each year.
with the Skills Funding Agency and strategic partner City & Guilds, a Two new core leadership programmes have been created to support world leading vocational education organisation, over 400 qualifications managers development and are being piloted through some markets have been achieved by our retail team this year.
In December, after just with a view to launching globally across the Group during 2014. one year with Thomson, Stacie Guiel, who joined our Brighton shop in Leadership Essentials, a two-day workshop, focuses predominantly 2011, was awarded a City & Guilds Medal for Excellence recognising her on self and people leadership and is designed for those early in their outstanding performance in travel services.
leadership journey to embed the behaviour which encourages this In addition, TUI UK & Ireland has succession planning programmes in and brings out the best in people.
Leadership Evolution is a three-day retail and overseas at every level linked to recognised qualifications.
leadership workshop focused on self, people and business leadership designed for more experienced managers, allowing them to explore the TUI Deutschland Leisure Travel has one of the largest training evolution of themselves as a leader and the organisation in the face programmes in the German travel industry, with their apprenticeship of a rapidly-changing environment.
scheme training approximately 250 people over three years.
Securing the future of the business, the programme aims to attract the best In addition to these development initiatives, we also run internal candidates, setting high standards and qualifying criteria.
In December and external mentoring and coaching programmes.
2012, Franziska Binner from Peine, finished her apprenticeship as the best merchant in tourism in Lower Saxony and was honoured by the Developing our talent pipeline Federal Minister for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth, To build our succession of leadership talent, our International Dr Kristina Schrder.
fide was introduced Graduate Leadership Programme continues to attract, develop at the end of 2012 where apprentices write about their experiences, and retain high-quality graduates to become our future senior providing an authentic report helping to promote the programme Commercial Leaders.
thE BIG PIctuRE tcs & staRquEst: toP 100 BEst PLacEs to WoRk TCS & Starquest Expeditions, our private jet expedition company, has been named as one of the Top 100 Best Places to Work in Washington State by Seattle Business Magazine.
The award recognises Washington companies that set the standard for leadership, strong benefits, ideal work environment, innovative training, and happiest employees, among other criteria.
Our employees are the heart of our organisation and the biggest reason for our success over the years, commented Shelley Cline, Managing Director of TCS & Starquest Expeditions.
It is because of their dedication, passion, and expertise that we are able to deliver the best private jet and expedition travel experience in the industry.
indd 36 13 12 2013 17:46 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 stRatEGIc REPoRt 37 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corsair has introduced a new apprenticeship scheme welcoming more a team of individuals strength in diversity than 30 trainees during 2013, demonstrating Corsairs commitment It is not only our customers that we recognise are all individuals.
Our to develop and support young people into the workplace.
Corsair has 55,000 strong workforce based all over the world represents a wide also partnered with two schools within the airline industry, the Ecole range of different backgrounds and cultures, enabling us to gain a real Nationale fide lAviation Civile ENAC and AFMAE.
ENAC, the only advantage and truly understand our customers and their ever changing aviation focused university in France, offers training and continued needs.
Our diversity is at the heart of our success and is one of our education for pilots and engineers and AFMAE focuses on supporting major strengths, making each brand so successful and our Company other professions including cabin crew and technicians.
partnerships strengthen Corsairs offering for employees while We are clear that we dont tolerate discrimination under any ensuring quality in our professional training.
circumstances and our ethos is that opportunities should be equally The Accommodation & Destinations Sectors Laterooms Group has available to everyone.
We have principles and guidelines in place to started to work with Manchester Metropolitan University to attract ensure this is maintained at every level, throughout our Company.
graduate placements on to their Agency Life Student Project.
Two Illustrating this diverse workforce, 24% of our senior leaders 243 students joined the scheme in October 2013 as part of the Marketing based across 24 countries are female.
Across our total workforce, division, spending one day a week with LateRooms.
com as part of their 63% of all employees and 38% of managers are female.
com to provide real experience for students, the programme also allows the business to Rewarding our colleagues and supporting develop, mentor and find future talent while raising awareness for the brand.
their wellbeing It is the dedication of our people that makes the difference when it Global mobility and collaboration comes to making travel experiences special and we strive to make To help improve global mobility, a new global resourcing function is being our people feel valued.
created for the financial year 2013 14 focusing on senior leadership and Recognising the importance of good retirement planning, we continue enabling our people to move more easily around the Group and the to offer pension arrangements across the Group reflective of local world.
Driving the strategy for increasing the number of international legislative requirements, as well as the economic position of our moves across the business reinforces our commitment to internal business and market practice.
This year there have been significant promotions and moves.
changes in the UK with the introduction of new pension autoAs part of this and in response to the feedback in our global employee enrolment legislation.
Since June 2013, eligible employees are now opinion survey Your Voice see Engaging and Involving our Colleagues, automatically enrolled into our Company pension scheme with a set a new internal careers portal was launched in July bringing together level of Company and employee contributions.
Over 4,700 people have TUI Travels global vacancies for the first time, increasing the visibility been successfully enrolled into the Company pension scheme.
Launched in all areas of the Group, around 50 We continue to encourage share ownership in the Company amongst management vacancies are advertised on a weekly basis covering all colleagues.
In the UK we are able to offer a share incentive plan that Sectors, with roles of all levels being introduced at the end of 2013. allows colleagues to purchase TUI Travel PLC shares in a tax efficient way.
These initiatives will enable us to monitor better mobility between The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is paramount and an example businesses as well as across Sectors, continuing to build on and of how this is supported in TUI UK & Ireland is their pilot programme, improve opportunities for career development while staying with Your Life a healthier, happier you, which aims to increase employee TUI Travel.
The programme has resulted in a reduction in the average We are also driving a more global mind-set by encouraging colleagues duration of long-term sickness absence and days lost through sickness.
from across the Group based all over the world to work more closely TUI Leisure Travel in Germany has also developed a new health together.
Over the past 12 months the Mainstream Sector has been management scheme as a part of a pilot project in our travel agencies focusing on leveraging its scale by sharing best practice and working more focused on preserving the health of employees.
One example of this new way of working is the creation of a new Purchasing department, set up to buy on human rights behalf of the whole of Mainstream rather than just for each individual Please see the Sustainable Development section, page 29.
This has encouraged networking opportunities for our people and collaboration across all Source Markets as well as offering more value to the customer see pages 14 to 25. tomoRRoWs tRaVEL LEaDER: PaRtnERshIP WIth a4E LEE nIchoLson Partnering with A4e, a Government Work provider, Lee Nicholson, who joined Thomson Airways we are working to support young people in the UK straight from university in 2006, is one of the 2013 & Ireland into work.
50 people aged between 16-18 winners of TTGs 30 under 30 in their Tomorrows have been recruited into our JCA education brand Travel Leaders competition.
Working his way up who have since transferred into other business from cabin crew to his current role as ground areas for their second season.
training instructor where he is credited with delivering innovative training packages, Lee said: It will be interesting to meet people outside aviation.
Im quite into digital and social media and Thomsons really aware of that.
Ive looked at other people from last years group and theyre very much online.
indd 37 13 12 2013 17:46 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 38 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 strategIC report How we measure it: Key performance indicators KPIs Our KPIs enable TUI Travels stakeholders to monitor performance against our 57 growth levers see more on page and growth roadmap.
strategIC growth strategy DrIVers roaDmap target unIque holIDays only aVaIlaBle from tuI traVel we are targeting a unique holiday mix of 76%, as Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream businesses a proportion of total and are exclusive to us.
Unique holidays provide value added services and mainstream sector holidays features which command a margin premium over commodity products.
by 2017, and continuous This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase in repeat improvement in customer bookings.
Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to manage our satisfaction.
capacity and yield more effectively and it is very difficult for our competitors to replicate these concepts.
DIstrIButeD DIreCtly to the Customer growth from onlIne we are targeting a direct distribution mix of 81% and Our direct distribution channels are central to the Groups strategy.
By an online distribution mix increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution of 50% in our mainstream costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on our sector by 2017. customer relationships.
As an online-driven business, we have a focus on the online customer experience.
During the year, we continued to see the benefits of the investments we have been making in our online platforms.
We are moving to one core online platform across Mainstream.
leVeragIng our sCale within mainstream, we target overheads of less than As Europes largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all source 5% in each source market.
markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow the number of customers travelling with us.
Our One Mainstream structure is in place and yielding tangible benefits.
We have completed our strategic review of the Specialist & Activity we are targeting underlying businesses and have refocused our plans for profitable growth and operating profit growth of improved operational efficiency.
We have a strong portfolio of between 8% to 10% per established and popular brands with leadership positions in market annum between 2012 and segments which are continuing to grow.
2017, including delivery of 9m business improvement savings.
Key to strategIC DrIVers 69% 79% of our Mainstream holidays Customer satisfaction score BranDs & teChnology growth people were unique in 2013 in UK, Nordics and Germany Content DIstrIButIon & sCale combined during 2013 16 See more about our strategic drivers on page 6 KPIs v39 copy.
indd 38 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork organIC speCIalIst DelIVerIng & aCtIVIty growth maInstream growth TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 strategIC report 39 BUSINESS AND fINANCIAl rEvIEW DIrECTOrS rEPOrT fINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHArEHOlDEr INfOrMATION performanCe Key performanCe InDICators unique holidays mix as a proportion of In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by four percentage points across the total mainstream sector package holidays Mainstream Sector as a whole to 69%.
Within this, the UK and Germany improved by four 2013: 69% | 2012: 65% | 2011: 62% percentage points to 83% and 51% respectively, and the Nordic region improved by one percentage point to 93%.
Customer satisfaction for key mainstream source markets Customer satisfaction for the UK, Nordic region and Germany combined increased by two percentage points to 79%, driven by improved scores in all three source markets.
2013: 79% | 2012: 77% | 2011: 76% Direct distribution mix, as a proportion of To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: i direct distribution mix: unique holidays mix as a proportion of total total mainstream sector package holidays mainstream sector package holidays and ii online distribution mix.
The improvement in direct distribution was driven by the online channel which has online distribution mix, as a proportion Customer satisfaction for [key mainstream of total mainstream sector package holidays increased by two percentage points in 2013 to 35%.
Within this, the UK improved by source markets rated out of a total of 100%] three percentage points to 47%, the Nordic region improved by two percentage points 2013: 35% | 2012: 33% | 2011: 30% 2013: [xx%] | 2012: [xx%] | 2011: [xx%] to 68% and Germany improved by four percentage points to 8%.
mainstream overhead as a % of revenue The Mainstream overhead percentage of revenue improved from 5.2% to 4.6% in 2013.
2013: 4.6% | 2012: 5.2% | 2011: 5.4% Underlying operating profit 2013 was a year of restructuring and refocusing for the Specialist & Activity Sector and, as anticipated, underlying operating profit has not grown during the year.
Now that the 2013: 41m Sector restructure is complete, we look forward to delivering against our growth roadmap 2012: 48m in the next four years.
As part of this, we have already delivered 3m of business improvement savings during 2013.
66% 35% of our Mainstream of our Mainstream holidays during 2013 were holidays during 2013 distributed directly by were purchased online us to the customer at constant currency rates 6 KPIs v39 copy.
indd 39 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 40 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 strategIC report How we measure it: Key performance indicators KPIs continued strategIC growth strategy DrIVers roaDmap target Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Hotelbeds and Bedsonline is we are targeting an a market leader operating in the B2B segment with a global distribution underlying operating profit presence.
We have a clear strategy of consolidating our market-leading growth for accommodation position even further by continuing to grow our existing destinations wholesaler of between 15% whilst accelerating our expansion into new markets with particular focus to 20% per annum between on Asia, latin America and Africa.
In Accommodation OTA online travel agent our focus is to build on our we are targeting growth strong brand positioning of laterooms.
com in the UK and expand in the in traffic and roomnights emerging markets through Asiarooms.
com across Asia and in Brazil with in our existing ota brands MalaPronta, Brazils fourth largest accommodation-only OTA.
One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Groups we target continuous profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior returns on improvement in group investment.
This improvement will allow us to invest further in the future roIC and cash conversion of our business which will benefit our customers, colleagues and of at least 70% of profit shareholders.
we are targeting delivery of the remaining 19m of business improvement opportunities over the next two years.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability we are targeting our airlines and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect to reduce per passenger our product into the future and also support product differentiation, carbon emissions by 9% brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
by 2015 against a baseline of 2008. see sustainable Development section.
Key to strategIC DrIVers 28% 46m growth in Accommodation business improvement BranDs & teChnology growth people Wholesaler underlying savings delivered during 2013 Content DIstrIButIon & sCale operating profit in 2013 16 See more about our strategic drivers on page 6 KPIs v39 copy.
indd 40 13 12 2013 17:48 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork pIoneerIng leVeragIng our gloBal sustaInaBIlIty foCus on free Cash flow leaDershIp posItIon Change In our generatIon, roIC anD InVestIng In In aCCommoDatIon seCtor operatIonal effICIenCy aCCommoDatIon ota wholesaler TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 strategIC report 41 BUSINESS AND fINANCIAl rEvIEW DIrECTOrS rEPOrT fINANCIAl STATEMENTS SHArEHOlDEr INfOrMATION performanCe Key performanCe InDICators Growth in underlying operating profit We had a strong performance in Accommodation Wholesaler in 2013, with 28% growth in underlying operating profit at constant currency 2012 rates.
Top-line growth was driven growth in roomnights primarily by expansion in Asia and latin America.
2013: 16% Growth in traffic We continued to invest in the Asian and Brazilian markets in Accommodation OTA during 2013.
Traffic grew by 7% in the year.
Whilst roomnights grew by 8% in AsiaRooms, total 2013: 7% roomnights fell by 6%, driven by laterooms, which implemented a new online platform Decrease in roomnights during the year.
2013: -6% roIC rOIC has improved again this year by 2.6 percentage points to 14.8%, driven by the significant increase in underlying net operating profit after tax.
2013: 14.8% | 2012: 12.2% | 2011: 11.3% We generated a cash conversion rate of 90% in 2013 as a result of a strong operating 1 Cash conversion cash flow performance.
We continue to target a cash conversion rate of at least 70% 2013: 90% | 2012: 78% | 2011: 120% going forward.
Business improvement programme We delivered 46m of operational efficiency savings through the business improvement 2013: 46m programme in the last 12 months, with a further 19m to be delivered in the next two years.
1 Free cash flow excludes net aircraft pre-delivery payments and movements in restricted cash Carbon efficiency, measured through We made significant improvements in 2013.
Our airlines per passenger carbon emissions tuI travel airlines average carbon emissions reduced by 3.2% year on year, from 73.0g CO rPK in 2012 to 70.7g CO rPK in 2013, a 2 2 per revenue passenger kilometre g Co rpK 2 9.3% reduction against our 2008 baseline year.
This was achieved through investment in 2013: 70.7g Co rpK 2 new more fuel-efficient aircraft, operational efficiencies, fuel conservation activities and capacity amends.
2012: 73.0g CO rPK 2 2011: 75.9g CO rPK 2 14.8% 90% rOIC improved by cash conversion during 2.6 percentage points 2013, significantly above during 2013 to 14.8% our target of 70% at constant currency rates 6 KPIs v39 copy.
