Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Chief Executives statement David Levin Chief Executive Officer Dear Shareholder, The managed decline in Other Marketing management development programmes have Over the course of my tenure UBM has evolved Services is due to the restructuring, to align a highly positive impact on the business.
Our in three fundamental ways.
The most profound the activities more closely with our events.
environmental performance is impressive: externally visible shift has been in UBMs We have focused on more profitable, not only did we reduce our carbon emissions business model.
The business is no longer community-based business models and taken per head by 9% in 2013 versus our baseline dependent on  print advantage of our strengths in high quality in 2010 but our London office received products.
Instead UBM now has a clear identity content and audience reach.
Emblematic of a Green Apple Award for recycling over as a focused events-led marketing services this shift was ceasing to print Information 90% of our waste, none of which went to and communications business, with negligible Week whilst moving informationweek.
We have also become the first global exposure to print products.
We achieved this toan online community platform.
events business to start reporting on the transformation by making more than 100 carbon footprint of all its global events and bolt-on acquisitions, disposing of almost 1bn Although an improved US economic exhibitions.
Collaboration underpins UBMs of revenues and investing in organic growth environment improved the performance operational practices so our social business opportunities.
We continued to progress this later in the year, PR Newswires revenue network, the UBM Hub is a key business tool.
strategic shift in 2013 with the Delta disposal growth for 2013 was less dynamic than we Traffic in 2013 grew by 16% with participating and the Marketing Services restructuring, as had anticipated.
However the margins have activity growing by 48%.
well as the acquisition of ten small events.
been rock solid and we remain confident of its competitive position and prospects for the UBMs second substantial transition has future, particularly in its development in the been in terms of where it does business.
We online content marketing space.
have moved the business away from the UK and Continental Europe and have expanded Sustainability in its broadest sense see David Levin in Emerging Markets, particularly in China Sustainability Report on p. 22 remains at Chief Executive Officer where we now generate almost a quarter the heart of UBM.
Our research tells us our of our revenues.
And at the same time we have continued to build our North American operations.
Both of the first two shifts have been underpinned by the businesss third pivot and the one I believe has been the most Jime Essink 1 Case Study important : the development of a positive, President and engaged and collaborative UBM-wide Strategy in action: CEO of UBM business culture.
Asia Growing our events in In 2013 we made good operational, as well the Emerging Markets as strategic, progress, despite challenging market conditions, particularly in the UK construction sector, making Q1 a tough start to the year for Events.
Momentum improved through the year with our large shows in China performing well and strong biennial The CBME show connects Chinese sales and marketing, and establish shows in Q4.
retailers and distributors with strategic partnerships with trade international suppliers of child, baby associations and government The much-changed geography of UBMs and maternity products.
Hosted in agencies in key markets.
Events business continues to be a positive, Shanghai, it is now the worlds with 46.6% of 2013 Events revenues being largest sourcing event of its kind.
We have also strengthened the generated in Emerging Markets.
We expect Since UBM acquired it in July 2010, franchises international reach by good growth in China despite four of our CBME has consistently strong launching geo-adaptations in India largest shows now reaching the capacity double-digit growth in each year.
This and Brazil, and are working with of their respective venues.
In response to is thanks in part to the sectors our Turkish joint venture partner to weakening economic conditions in a number growth but also as a result of UBM launch CBME Turkey in 2014. of emerging markets, like Brazil and India, in initiatives to enhance international http: www.
com ?l en Q4 we delayed some new events and have scaled back launch plans for 2014.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
