Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Jonathan Newcomb has served on the Board for over 12 years, having Non-Executive Directors appointments are reviewed every three been a Non-Executive Director since September 2001. years.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual re-election Notwithstanding the provisions of section B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board byshareholders.
considers that the quality and nature of Jonathans contribution to Board debate continues to demonstrate his independence.
He has More information about the knowledge, skills and experience of our served as a highly effective Chairman of our Audit Committee since Board can be found in their individual biographies on pages 34 and 35.
2008 and will be succeeded in this role with effect from 1 March 2014 by John McConnell.
We value highly Jonathans experience and Having clear roles and responsibilities for Board members is an detailed knowledge of the sector in which UBM operates and he will important element in ensuring that the Board operates effectively.
be proposed for re-election to the Board for another year at the AGM Thekey relationship is that of the Chairman and Chief Executive CEO.
In accordance with the Code, a clear written description of their respective roles is in place and has been approved by the Board.
Roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman CEO Responsible for the effective running of the Board.
She spends an average of Responsible for running UBMs business, within the authority limits delegated two days a week carrying out her responsibilities, but takes no part in the dayto him by the Board.
to-day running of the business.
Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Leading the Board effectively to ensure that there are sufficient meetings, Proposing and developing UBMs strategy and overall commercial objectives.
agenda items are appropriate and there is adequate time for discussion.
Ensuring that Directors are able to contribute fully to Board discussions and Recommending an annual budget for Board approval and ensuring that their skills are used to best effect.
In conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensuring compliance with the Identifying and carrying out acquisitions and disposals.
Boards approved procedures and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
Providing a sounding Board for the CEO on key business issues.
Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the business.
Overseeing the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Developing and making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on Committees and individual Directors.
remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management.
Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors and ensuring Leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of the business.
thatDirectors update their skills and knowledge to enable them to carry out their responsibilities.
Maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring the concerns, and ensuring that their views are communicated to the Board as timely and accurate disclosure of information to the market.
Chairing the Nomination Committee and leading the succession planningprocess.
A process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of Directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise must be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, approval by relevant Board members.
No conflicts of interest were disclosed during 2013.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
