42.2 127.1 40.0 125.5 38.5 121.1 34.6 108.5 31.2 96.7 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executives review Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive In response to the changing market dynamics, Ultra continues to adapt its behaviours to maintain its agility and focus on customer need.
Introduction Operational highlights Ultras business model Ultras increasingly wide portfolio of Features of the Groups accomplishments Ultras prime objective continues to be to specialist capabilities allows it to offer in the year which will underpin future outperform the market in terms of annual  solutions into the performance included: increases in shareholder value, by delivering defence & aerospace, security & cyber and above-average increases in earnings and by the award of an exclusive long-term supply transport and energy market sectors.
This communicating effectively with shareholders agreement with Pratt & Whitney for the broad diversity gives significant resilience to and the financial community.
The strategic electronic control unit which manages Ultras financial performance and provides framework, page 1, is focused on ensuring the Electrical Ice Protection System EIPS a solid platform for growth.
Over the last that Ultra meets its prime objective.
This is on the US Joint Strike Fighters F-135 12 months the Group has weathered the achieved through the strategies for growth engine.
The agreement is effective for the uncertainty in the US government-funded which are described on pages 14 and 15, life of the engine programme, valued at market, where the lack of clarity has allied with the business model described on over $500m resulted in delays to expected orders, pages 6 to 11.
Underpinning these are a 16.1m contract for the supply of approvals and payments.
The continued Ultras strategic tenets described on pages specialist instrumentation to EDF Energy.
scal pressures in the broader government- 12 and 13, which help to shape and define Under this contract, Ultra will funded markets, and changing market the values and behaviours embedded manufacture and support safety-critical dynamics, have tested the Groups business within Ultras culture, which is further nuclear reactor instrumentation for use in model.
However, the Groups sustained detailed on pages 40 to 43.
EDF Energys current UK nuclear power investment and constant focus on Positioning for growth stations.
This is the first contract to improving operational efficiencies, together In response to the changing market benefit from Ultras recent investment in with Ultras inherent agility has shown the dynamics, Ultra continues to adapt its a state-of-the-art nuclear instrumentation model is robust and is positioning the behaviours to maintain its agility and focus manufacturing facility Group for growth when normality returns.
To support this, the an increase in anti-submarine warfare Group has successfully developed and ASW spend which reects the US Pivot rolled out a number of internal initiatives to the Pacic policy.
The US Navy has and tools which help it gain a better Dividend per share recently changed from issuing an annual understanding of customers real needs.
sonobuoy tender and issued a five-year These improve its ability to offer 42.2p IDIQ competitive tender for which Ultra, differentiated and comprehensive solutions through its JV, was the only bidder.
in areas of preferential spend across all its Contract award is expected in the first market sectors.
These key initiatives quarter of 2014 include: LEAP, LAUNCH and Collaborative Autonomy more Ultras track record of delivering information on these initiatives can be above-average shareholder returns 5.5% found on pages 7, 9 and 10. since otation pence 2012: 40.0p 09 10 11 12 13 2500 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc FTSE all share price index 2000 Underlying earnings per share FTSE 100 price index FTSE all share aerospace defence 1500 127.1p 1000 KPI 500 1.3% 0 2012: 125.5p 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 KPI Key Performance Indicator, see pages 16 and 17 for details see footnote on page 1 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework The four main strategies for growth are: 12 34 Increase the number of long-term Increase the Groups platforms and Broaden the Groups Widen Ultras portfolio of specialist programmes on customer base geographic footprint capabilities which Ultras specialist capabilities are specified Investment for growth Investment for growth through experience, what makes Ultra new capabilities new geographic markets different and how to focus the Groups To increase the breadth of the Groups The Group constantly strives to broaden its businesses on maintaining competitive capabilities, Ultra continues to invest over customer base and widen its geographic advantage in the various specialist market 5% of revenue on internal development to footprint.
This not only provides growth, sectors in which Ultra operates.
but increases the robustness of the Summary These offerings are aimed at niche market business model.
Ultra has made the I am pleased to say that early recognition sectors where customers preferentially strategic decision to prioritise on a number of current changes in market dynamics, focus their expenditure.
These investment of regions and sectors with higher growth.
allied with Ultras robust business model activities are led by the businesses and are The Group recognises that new markets and inherent agility, has enabled the Group robustly reviewed by the Executive Team and geographic sectors take time to enter to position for future growth in these and the Board.
and so these activities are carried out in a challenging times.
measured and controlled manner, with due In parallel, Ultra continues to invest in I would like to nish by thanking all of consideration of risk.
Ultra, as an acquisitions, which bring complementary Ultras employees for their continued hard independent, non-threatening partner, is world-leading niche capabilities and work, dedication and enthusiasm.
Ultras able to support all of the main prime market access to the Groups portfolio.
In reputation as a global leader in electronics contractors and local industry partners.
The June 2013, the Group acquired Varisys, a and software for defence, security, Group is therefore well positioned to bring UK business which develops products for transport and energy applications is built its specialised equipment, systems and high-performance embedded computing on the endeavours of its exceptional services to new long-term platforms and applications.
Its product portfolio includes employees and their ability to develop programmes in new markets and regions.
bespoke solutions for customers long-term value-adding relationships with Further details on Ultras robust business operating in the aerospace, defence, customers.
The ability to execute these model can be found on pages 6 to 11. telecommunications and industrial sectors.
strategies successfully is entirely reliant Varisys is now a part of Ultras Aircraft & Behaviours for growth upon the engagement, commitment and Vehicle Systems division.
The Group will continue to differentiate passion of the Groups employees.
I am itself from its competitors through its In October 2013, Ultra acquired Wood & confident that Ultra is well placed to technical innovation and high standards of Douglas Limited W&D.
W&D provides successfully execute the strategies and ethical business conduct.
Underpinning bespoke wireless products, radio networks, plans to meet its prime objective.
this cultural drive is a strong ethical policy video monitoring and wireless data which is mandatory for all employees platform capabilities.
These are supplied to across the entire Group.
Ultra educates its the defence, homeland security, employees on anti-bribery and corruption transportation, emergency services, policies, including gifts and hospitality exploration, healthcare and utilities sectors practices.
In the period, Ultra decided not in the UK and to over 30 countries to pursue business in areas where it was worldwide.
W&D has been integrated into not satisfied that its ethical standards Ultras Tactical & Sonar Systems division to would be maintained.
form a centre of excellence for communication products and services.
Executing against the growth strategies, shown above, requires consistency of management focus and drive.
The continuity of Ultras management team ensures that expertise and experience is retained to maintain growth momentum in the Group.
Ultras management team has to balance dealing with the particularly challenging short-term market conditions, whilst also ensuring that it is fully addressing the need to continue positioning for mediumand long-term growth.
The Rakesh Sharma members of the Executive Team understand Chief Executive 6.
