CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW TRANSFORMATION TO A CONSISTENT, expansions in Home Care and Personal and our commitment to building worldCOMPETITIVE, PROFITABLE AND Care.
Although we saw solid performances class leaders was re-affirmed with RESPONSIBLE GROWTH COMPANY in savoury and dressings, with both Knorr the opening of our state-of-the-art 2013 was another year of turbulence and Hellmanns building share, sales management development centre in in many parts of the world.
Widespread declined in spreads due to falling markets Singapore.
citizen protests in countries as far apart in Europe and North America.
While we are as Brazil, Turkey and Egypt, the devastating encouraged by the early signs of recovery in We made changes to strengthen the typhoon in the Philippines, and the our spreads business, we havent yet seen organisation in 2013, integrating R&D into significant weakening of many emerging the broader improvements we were our category structure, sharpening and market currencies were all reminders of expecting and it remains an important streamlining our marketing organisation.
todays increasingly VUCA world volatile, focus for us.
As part of our strategy of We also embarked on a major simplification uncertain, complex and ambiguous.
While making Foods fit for growth, we sharpened exercise, Project Half for growth, which emerging markets slowed, there were only the portfolio further in 2013 with the aims to rework our most complex limited signs of recovery in Europe and divestment of a number of less strategic, processes and systems to free up time and the US, with little improvement in either underperforming brands, like Wish-Bone, resource to put behind our principal growth consumer confidence or unemployment.
While todays VUCA world is certainly It was a mixed year for Refreshment, LOOKING FORWARD more difficult to navigate, it does present with solid growth in tea but a contrasting 2014 will be as challenging as 2013, opportunities if managed well.
This is the performance from ice cream where two with continuing volatility in the external thinking behind the Unilever Sustainable of our biggest markets the US and Italy environment.
We will position Unilever Living Plan USLP and our vision to double struggled.
We continued to expand accordingly and drive out complexity and the size of the business while reducing our into the profitable out-of-home ice cost to fund growth opportunities.
The environmental footprint and increasing our cream sector with brands like Cornetto, good news is that we have no shortage positive social impact.
This Annual Report Ben & Jerrys, Magnum and Fruttare.
of opportunities: increasing our presence seeks to highlight the integral link between Additionally, we expanded our low-cost in places like Africa, returning our Foods our long-term business purpose of making business models and further sharpened business to competitive growth and sustainable living commonplace and our choices in capital expenditure.
In tea, extending our categories into more Unilevers overall results.
we have renewed our focus on driving the premium spaces.
We are making good core business through our Lipton brand progress in driving bigger innovations 2013 RESULTS and we were pleased to welcome the faster across the world but we need to 2013 was another year of top and bottom premium T2 business to our portfolio.
continue to set the bar higher.
Underlying sales growth was once again ahead of the market, at 4.3%, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Once again, we will remain focused on and our core operating margin was up Over the last five years, we have delivering profitable volume growth ahead 0.4percentage points, to a record 14.1%, established a simple framework for of our markets, steady and sustainable though weaker currencies impacted on our driving long-term success to grow ahead core operating margin improvement and reported turnover and earnings.
The quality of our markets, expand our margin and strong cash flow.
of results was equally good, with 55% of our deliver strong cash flow.
We achieved this business winning share.
Growth was driven again in 2013, despite further investments A BETTER WORLD, A BETTER BUSINESS by Personal Care and Home Care, which in advertising and promotion to strengthen THE USLP AS A DRIVER OF GROWTH continue to outperform the markets and the business.
Gross margin expansion of Every year, the USLP becomes more firmly our competitive set.
Most of the growth 1.1 percentage points was the best for ten embedded in all aspects of the business.
came from emerging markets, which now years, while free cash flow of 3.9 billion As this Annual Report highlights, the USLP account for 57% of our business.
reflected improved margins as well as is driving waste and inefficiencies out of tight capital management.
the system and helping us transform the CATEGORY PERFORMANCE supply chain.
Suppliers and customers are In 2013, Personal Care, our largest We used the strong balance sheet position increasingly keen to work with us under category, showed strong broad-based to increase our holdings in Hindustan the USLP and, by helping to grow our momentum.
The acquisitions of Alberto Unilever in 2013, from 52% to 67%, and business in a responsible and equitable Culver, Sara Lee, Kalina and Toni & Guy we bought out the remaining holding in way, the USLP is benefiting all our have helped to transform the portfolio.
Our pension fund deficit stakeholders, including our shareholders.
Dove had a particularly impressive year.
decreased from 3.3 billion at the end Home Care also delivered strong of 2012 to 2.0 billion at the end of 2013, It is in stimulating the growth of our underlying growth.
The implementation reflecting mainly strong investment returns.
brands that the USLP really comes to life.
of low-cost business models and higher By developing strong social missions our margin innovations, including concentrated A STRONGER ORGANISATION brands are showing that they can make a detergents, helped to drive better gross A VUCA world requires continued real difference to peoples lives while at the margins in laundry, and household cleaners investment in our long-term pillars of same time growing our business.
There benefited from growth in new territories growth: brands, people, and operations.
were many inspiring examples in 2013, Domestos toilet cleaner was our fastest We increased investment further in growing global brand.
manufacturing, with the construction of five plants currently under way, as well Foods has been a major cash contributor as continuing to upgrade our IT systems.
for Unilever, allowing us to finance faster Employee engagement scores rose again 6 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE some of them featured in this report.
Lifebuoy, for instance, with its handwashing campaign to reduce diarrhoea and pneumonia: Pureit, helping to bring safe drinking water into the home: Dove, promoting self-esteem among young girls and women: Knorr, helping smallholder farmers to produce sustainably: and 1 2 3 Domestos, bringing better sanitation to communities in desperate need of it.
However, the scale of the challenges we are trying to tackle through the USLP whether food security, climate change, sanitation, job creation or the many others is just too great for one organisation to address alone, which is why we are so pleased that our 4 5 6 approach is gaining support from a growing number of external organisations, many of which we are fortunate to partner with.
It was particularly satisfying in 2013 to see the launch of the Tropical Forest Alliance TFA, a public-private partnership committed to reducing deforestation, which Unilever did so much to help get off the ground.
7 8 9 We will continue to bring our scale and our expertise to bear wherever we can to help solve the worlds challenges.
Last year, for example, we took this commitment to another level, with the launch of Project Sunlight, a corporate campaign based on making sustainable living desirable and achievable by inspiring people to help build a world where everyone lives well and 10 11 12 within the natural limits of the planet.
Already 70 million people have been on to the website to make a pledge.
As the Project Sunlight campaign proclaims, we believe that there has never been a better time to create a better world for all, including for those yet to come.
My own work as part of the UN 13 14 15 Secretary-Generals High Level Panel on the post-2015 Development Agenda 1 Paul Polman 10 Harish Manwani Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer has strongly reinforced that view.
In fact, 2 Doug Baillie 11 Nitin Paranjpe I am more than ever convinced that this Chief Human Resources Officer Home Care generation has it within its reach to 3 Genevive Berger 12 Antoine fide Saint-Affrique eradicate poverty irreversibly and, yes, Chief Science Officer Foods in a more sustainable and equitable way.
4 David Blanchard 13 Pier Luigi Sigismondi Chief Category Research Chief Supply Chain Officer & Development Officer At Unilever we dont just want to be a part 1614 Ritva Sotamaa 5 Kevin Havelock Chief Legal Officer of this, we want to lead actively in the areas Refreshment 15 Keith Weed related to our business.
That is what the 6 Jean-Marc Hut Chief Marketing and USLP is all about and I want to thank all Chief Financial Officer Communication Officer of our employees, business partners and 7 Alan Jope 16 Jan Zijderveld others for the remarkable contribution Russia, Africa and Middle East Europe they made again in 2013 towards this goal.
8 Kees Kruythoff North America Board member 9 Dave Lewis For ULE biographies, Warm regards Personal Care please see page 41.
Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 7
