| 14 AVEVAGroupplc Annual report 2013 Directors report Chief Executives review Richard Longdon | Chief Executive Officer The success of the Group is founded on its worldleading technology and global platform.
We achieved another major milestone during the year with the launch of our groundbreaking new product, AVEVA E3D.
summaRy Of REviEw REviEw z OvERviEw By selling worldleading technology AVEVA delivered another excellent year of growth in 2012 13. z into global industries we have been able As a truly international company selling worldleading technology  into global industries, we have been able to benefit from the  positive fundamentals in many of our markets.
endmarkets This growth has enabled us to continue to make significant investment in both innovation and the development of our global platform.
In particular, we successfully launched AVEVA Everything3D AVEVA E3D, one of the industrys most significant  z new product releases in many years, which strengthens our demandfromtheOil&Gasmarket, technology leadership and delivers enhanced efficiencies  for our customers.
complexprojects, someofwhich Our Engineering & Design Systems business, which provides , necessitating additional design hours software solutions for the design and construction of assets in the Plant, Power and Marine industries, continued to benefit  softwaretools from global growth trends in Oil & Gas and Power, whilst as expected the Marine segment remained subdued.
Our Enterprise Solutions division, which provides software and support for ongoing information management throughout  z an assets lifecycle, achieved a major milestone as the business  grew by more than 30% in the year and moved into profitability % for the first time.
This was achieved as a result of increased  management and internal focus, and is now benefitting from forthefirsttime the returns on investment we have made to build our service delivery infrastructure and sales organisation.
GlObal GROwth maRkEts Ournewproduct, AVEVAE3D, z has been seen by industry watchers One of AVEVAs core strengths is our global presence, enabling  us to be close to our customers.
During the year we continued  to develop our international reach, targeting and investing in high  growth markets with new offices in Mumbai and Hyderabad in India gamechanger and by establishing, through the acquisition of Bocad, a new Centre of Excellence for Structural Design in Germany.
Demand for AVEVAs products remained strong in the Oil & Gas and Power markets during the year whilst activity levels in Marine remained flat.
The trends driving demand in Oil & Gas continued with an increase in the number, size and complexity of projects worldwide.
Global energy demand is expected to grow at 36% from 20112030 WWW.
COM | Directors report Annual report 2013 AVEVAGroupplc 15 BP Energy Outlook 2030, Jan 2013 with an increasing proportion to offshore Oil & Gas projects.
We anticipate the Marine market conditions will remain for another two years.
Meanwhile we are of the supply to be satisfied by difficult to exploit deepwater fields.
This drives up design hours and the use of AVEVAs software focused on selling our other products, such as Enterprise Resource Management which helps shipyards become more tools for ever more complex engineering and design.
efficient through streamlining and improving their planning Power also has long investment cycles and AVEVA serves a wide and construction.
variety of customers around the world involved in all types of power generation.
We are strongly positioned to benefit from new nuclear projects in China, where the nuclear build programme innOvatiOn has recently recommenced, and in India, where nuclear is a key In October we launched AVEVA E3D, a next generation product part of the governments longterm power infrastructure build for Lean Construction in the plant design industry.
The World Nuclear Association report that over previewed at the Achema trade fair in Frankfurt during the summer half of the 480 proposed or planned new builds will be located followed by a working demo at the AVEVA World Summit in October in China and India by 2030.
Whilst there remains some hesitancy and first customer shipments were made in January 2013.
AVEVA around newbuild nuclear projects in Europe, the building E3D has been seen by industry watchers as the most significant new of additional conventional power stations further drives product to be launched in the plant design market for many years demand for AVEVAs design tools.
and is potentially a true game changer.
AVEVA E3D is the result In Marine, the industry is in the midst of a cyclical downturn of years of development and incorporates much of the functionality and hence sales of our design software have remained subdued, of our acquisitions over recent years.
AVEVA E3D has been particularly in China where the shipyards have been more focused designed to be fully compatible with our existing 3D applications.
This is in contrast to Korea where As a result we believe AVEVA E3D will deliver enhanced efficiencies an increasing amount of the shipyards work is now related to customers seeking to maintain competitive advantage.
01 RusGaz EnGinEERinG Russia 02 DELIVERS FASTER PROJECTS AND RAPID GROWTH 03 IlshatValiullin President of RGE AVEVAs Integrated Engineering & Design capabilities provide powerful management tools and weve been able to scale our system implementation in line .
with the Companys , the wORkinG with RGE rapid growth.
 Like many of our customers, RGE has companies rGE hasbecomea grown rapidly as the energy market leader in the design and construction has expanded and at the same time the ofcompleteOil&Gasandchemical complexity of projects is increasing  dramatically.
demand a new way of managing and understanding information.
Our Integrated Engineering & Design avEvas ROlE strategy ensures consistency across disciplines and in conjunction with In addition to AVEVAs design and Enterprise Solutions we are helping engineering software, RGE deployed customers increase productivity and AVEVA NET, a webbased solution for reduce risk by providing a complete system consolidation and the management view of the entire project regardless of engineering data.
The principal advantage of where information is authored.
for project leaders and members is the ScAnthEqrcODE ability to quickly locate critical information Derek Middlemas tOrEADthEfull cASEStuDy and they now have a consistent, full COO and Head of Enterprise Solutions picture of all their projects.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS | 16 AVEVAGroupplc Annual report 2013 Directors report Chief Executives review Continued divisiOnal pERfORmanCE at a GlanCE Engineering&DesignSystems Divisional revenue 189.5m revenue m , 189.5m 10% z %over2011 2012.
155.1 172.5 189.5 z Demand sustained z Further competitive wins with major EPCs z AVEVA E3D launch very positively received z H2 weighting due to the phasing of rental contracts z Bocad integration progressing well, mitigating risk 2011 2012 2013 innOvatiOn continued The quality of the people is Customers will be able to transition easily to AVEVA E3D a major determinant of AVEVAs and will find a range of new features, such as fully integrated 2D drafting, laser scanning and enhanced visualisation, continued innovation and success.
allowing them to perform many functions within a fully integrated engineering environment.
This can be seen through the Early feedback from customers has been positive and the continual progression of our prospects for AVEVA E3D are encouraging as Engineering, Procurement and Construction companies EPCs seek to further worldleading products, as well improve design efficiency, reduce time to startup and remove costly rework in fabrication and construction.
Nonetheless, our as our ability to deliver new customers are highly conservative and it will take some time solutions based upon our to convert them all from PDMS to AVEVA E3D.
We are particularly excited about the new directions that the customers needs.
AVEVA E3D platform promises for future innovation, including in the areas of mobile and cloud computing.
During our World Summit in October 2012, we provided customers with a preview of some new mobile applications, which were met with great enthusiasm.
We plan to release the first of these new tabletbased applications later in 2013 14.
Our customers are rightly cautious in their approach to new technologies and thus our approach is to follow AVEVA tradition and deliver such solutions through working in partnership with our customers.
We are fortunate in that the introduction of mobile and cloud technology is far less of a technology disruption than for many of our peers.
Elsewhere, AVEVA further broadened its product portfolio during the year with the release of a powerful new version of AVEVA Instrumentation and a brand new product, AVEVA Electrical.
We believe there is a major opportunity to extend our design solution footprint with our existing customers.
AVEVA has always been a leading innovator in using advanced visualisation techniques to bring engineering data to life.
The acquisition of Global Majic and the subsequent establishment of a Centre of Excellence for Visualisation in Huntsville, Alabama will see the Global Majic visualisation technology introduced across the AVEVA product range to enhance the value of engineering data to a wider audience.
COM | Directors report Annual report 2013 AVEVAGroupplc 17 REGiOnal summaRy EnGinEERinG & dEsiGn systEms Eds EMEA once again delivered good growth with revenue up 15% over Our EDS business performed well during the year, delivering the prior year with expansion within the larger global EPCs and constant currency growth of 9% over 2011 12.
Again, we saw Owner Operators being the key drivers together with strong regional particularly strong demand from the Oil & Gas market, with performance in UK, Russia and Middle East.
Revenue growth in customers involved in increasingly complex projects, some of the Americas was 3% and was negatively affected by a slowdown which are the largest ever undertaken, necessitating additional in Brazil, where demand was impacted by delays in project awards design hours and more licences of our 3D design software tools.
We do expect the situation to improve in 2013 14 We also released a number of new products to broaden our and see the longterm market opportunity as undiminished.
In Asia design footprint, for example with AVEVA Electrical and AVEVA Pacific, we were pleased to see our China operations continue to Instrumentation.
In addition, these solutions have been designed make progress, with strong licence growth over the previous year to meet the needs of operations and inplant engineering and are despite the continued subdued demand in Marine across the region.
contributing to revenue growth, particularly with the Owner Operators.
We further extended our capabilities through the As a part of our strategy to expand significantly our presence acquisitions of Bocad and the software assets of Global Majic, in the emerging markets, we invested in a new office in Mumbai which added marketleading structural steel detailing and as well as a new Research and Development centre in Hyderabad.
visualisation software to the AVEVA solution.
Our headcount in India materially increased during the period and as a result of this planned investment, we will have the capability The overall revenue performance for the EDS division to carry out the majority of our offshore Research and Development was affected by the difficult situation in Brazil but despite activities within our own facilities in India.
This will reduce our this, strength elsewhere enabled the EDS business to deliver dependency on outsourced development partners while improving a record result.
01 pROjECtus bRazil 02 OuT OF THE bOx PRODuCTIVITy WITH AVEVA PLANT 03 GustavoDessottiPinto PDMS Administrator at Projectus AVEVA has enabled Projectus to increase efficiency in the design process by allowing concurrent working between different design disciplines.
Photograph courtesy of Petrobras and CPPR.
most important is the foundedin1990, Projectus wORkinG with pROjECtus ability to generate  completely clashfree AVEVA is committed to supporting  high growth emerging markets as a key designs.
component of our growth strategy.
both time and money  Working with highly professional and its engineering toolset on several by avoiding costly ambitious companies like Projectus Oil&GasprojectsinBrazil.
in Brazil allows us to continually focus modification at the our solutions to the changing landscape construction site.
Combined avEvas ROlE with our investment in local support and services, we are positioning The rapid expansion of Brazils Oil & Gas AVEVA to best support high growth industry has created a demand for many investment centres across the globe.
To meet this challenge, Projectus has extended Mat TrucheGordon its use of AVEVA PDMS with the addition Executive Vice President Business of AVEVA Steel and AVEVA Global.
These Strategy and Marketing ScAnthEqrcODE solutions help the company to maintain tOrEADthEfull cASEStuDy its high quality, reliability and productivity performance while executing their increasingly complex projects.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS | 18 AVEVAGroupplc Annual report 2013 Directors report C Chi hie ef E f Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five es r s re ev viie ew w C Con onttiin nu ue ed d divisiOnal pERfORmanCE at a GlanCE EnterpriseSolutions Divisional revenue 30.7m revenue m  30.7m 31% z theyear,  .
18.9 23.5 30.7 z Progress with the oil super majors, AVEVA NET mandated by Owner Operators for data handover z Extending sales into the engineering companies z Regulatory compliance a major driver 2011 2012 2013 z Improved revenue mix: total backlog 16% mitigating risk EnGinEERinG & dEsiGn systEms Eds continued AVEVAs goal is to deliver We invested in additional headcount in EDS, particularly sustainable, strong longterm in the area of technical sales and product strategy.
As AVEVA has expanded its design footprint by selling a broader solution earnings growth.
Our proven to our customers, the requirement has evolved for a more specialist sales approach with an even greater depth of technical and domain management team, technology expertise.
Due to the fragmented nature of the acquired group leadership and global platform of companies, the integration of Bocad into AVEVA took longer than normal and as a result the revenue was slightly behind our have been key to growing expectations for the year.
The necessary restructuring to integrate Bocad was completed in April 2013 and this, combined with the the business, even during upfront investment in sales during the year, has positioned us well to realise new growth opportunities in 2013 14. a period of severe global economic uncertainty.
EntERpRisE sOlutiOns Es We set ourselves challenging revenue targets for the ES business at the beginning of the year.
We also had the goal to further improve service delivery and manage costs of sale.
We grew MORE INFORMATION ABOUT revenue by more than 30% and moved into profitability for the THIS CAn BE fOunD AT z WWW.
Accelerating ES is key to our objective in positioning AVEVA as a strategic partner to our customers.
The market opportunity continues to develop and we were particularly encouraged to see further inroads into the Oil & Gas Owner Operators including the largest Independent Oil Companies IOCs.
In addition we have seen growing sales of AVEVA NET to our traditional EPC customers as Owner Operators demand our technology for project execution and data handover and throughout the project lifecycle.
ORGanisatiOn and pEOplE The quality of our people is a major determinant of AVEVAs continued innovation and success.
This can be seen through the continual progression of our worldleading products, as well as our ability to deliver new solutions based upon our customers needs.
AVEVA invests in its workforce in multiple ways, with an extensive range of human resources development and training programmes, central induction and leadership development for future senior staff.
COM | Directors report Annual report 2013 AVEVAGroupplc 19 We have invested during the year in growing our headcount, We expect to see further growth in the Oil & Gas industry in coming particularly within Research and Development and Sales and years and a solid demand backdrop in Power, underpinned by Marketing.
We also welcome the teams joining through Bocad, nuclear newbuild in China and India in particular.
in Belgium and Germany, and Global Majic, in Huntsville, Alabama.
The move to profitability within the ES division is an important My thanks go to the AVEVA team for the efforts they have made milestone and we aim to build on this in 2013 14.
We anticipate to help us achieve our financial targets and position the Group a return to growth in Latin America as project delays subside for another phase of strong growth.
and the spending freeze unwinds.
China and South East Asia are well positioned to deliver further good growth and we will continue to invest in growing our presence in the OutlOOk worlds developing economies.
Against this backdrop AVEVAs goal is to deliver sustainable, strong, longterm earnings we view the outlook for 2013 14 with confidence.
Our proven management team, technology leadership and global platform have been key to growing the business, even during a period of severe global economic uncertainty.
During 2012 13 we built upon our marketleading position through delivering one of the most significant new products in the Companys history, AVEVA E3D, and further extending our product portfolio RICHARD LOnGDOn through Research and Development and selective acquisitions.
Chief Executive Officer As a result we are well placed to extend our leadership position 23 May 2013 through providing unrivalled engineering design and information management solutions to our global blue chip customer base.
01 Edf fRanCE 02 WORLDS LEADING LOWCARBON ENERGy COMPANy INCREASINGLy RELIES ON AVEVA TECHNOLOGy 03 BrunoPentori Head of CAD Department, EDF Our AVEVA deployment provides many benefits.
One of the most valuable is the ease of design reuse, which not only reduces project cost and timescales, but also eliminates a great .
Electricitdefrance EDf , whetherfornuclear, hydro, windorsolarpower, leadingthedrive .
avEvas ROlE wORkinG with Edf AVEVA Plant has played an integral Now into the fourth decade of leadership part in EDFs design and construction using our 3D technology, EDF continues activity since the 1980s.
Recently to extend the range of AVEVA applications EDF has added a number of AVEVAs deployed across their Engineering & schematic applications which allow Design teams.
It is an example of how effective management of the flow we are extending our traditional design of engineering schematic data and footprint by providing an expanding 3D design between all participants suite of tightly integrated software throughout a project.
With hundreds that adds increasing value to our of engineers working concurrently across customers business.
globally distributed projects, there could ScAnthEqrcODE Dave Wheeldon tOrEADthEfull be many opportunities for errors and cASEStuDy CTO and Head of Engineering inconsistencies were it not for the robust & Design Systems control provided by AVEVAs software.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
