Vesuvius plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 c chief hief e executive xecutives s r review eview In 2013 we have strengthened the platform from which to pursue our growth strategy In our first complete year as an independent reductions of 2.3% and 1.9% in the EU and company, we have successfully initiated the the USA, respectively.
To date, the Chinese recovery of margins across the Group despite steel market has been predominantly focused the unfavourable economic environment.
on long products for use in infrastructure and Market conditions remained challenging in construction, the production of which requires 2013 continuing from the reduced levels of fewer Vesuvius products.
In the coming years, activity seen in the second half of 2012, and with the evolution towards a more consumersterling strengthened substantially in the second driven economy, a significant restructuring of half of 2013, impacting our reported growth the Chinese steel industry is anticipated, leading numbers.
Against this backdrop we have taken a to a greater focus on quality and performance disciplined approach to implementing our stated rather than volume.
This will require more flat strategy.
We streamlined our business portfolio steel production, and with our advanced processand activities, exiting non-core low-margin enhancing solutions, we are in a very good businesses, further improved the quality of our position to participate in this development.
products and services and implemented self-help Revenue performance in the Steel division measures to increase the productivity of our own remained broadly flat versus 2012, with businesses.
The result is improved profitability, the effect of disposals offsetting underlying strong cash flow and a more focused Group.
The division reported a gives us a strong platform from which to pursue 6.7% improvement in trading profit, and a Franois Wanecq our growth strategy.
This also Chief Executive Group Trading Performance demonstrates that the self-help initiatives and Group revenue from our continuing operations streamlining of the portfolio, implemented from was 1,511million, a reduction of 2.4% mid-2012 and throughout the year, has improved compared to 2012.
Underlying revenue, the strength of the underlying business.
excluding impact of exchange rate movements, Steel Flow Control acquisitions and disposals, declined by 0.8%.
Steel Flow Controlproducts supplied by Trading profit for the year was 140.0 million, up TM Vesuvius include: the Viso product range, 6.6% from 131.3 million in 2012, up 10.9% which are isostatically pressed alumina graphite on an underlying basis, reflecting the success of refractories: slide-gate refractories: temperature managements focus on self-help initiatives in measurement and slag level detection: fluxes: light of continuing weak market conditions.
and control devices to monitor and regulate Market Trends and Business steel flow.
The majority of these products are Performance consumed during the process of making steel.
Our business comprises two divisions, Steel and Consequently, demand for Vesuvius products Foundry, with the Steel division operated as two is primarily linked to steel production volumes, principal product lines, Steel Flow Control and with global steel representing almost 100% of Advanced Refractories.
Divisional reports are set the end-market for Vesuvius Steel Flow Control out on pages 24 to 31 of this Strategic Report.
Steel Division In the face of overall subdued market conditions After steep downturns in the steel industry in outside China we delivered top line growth mid-2012, activity stabilised at those lower and performed ahead of the underlying steel levels through the second half of 2013.
We were able to do so because world steel production grew by 4.8% driven of our ability to innovate and to help customers primarily by growth in China, volumes outside improve process productivity and therefore China were flat, with year-on-year production extract more value from their products.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 11 Strategic report capability is particularly valued by customers in As previously outlined, a change in focus has power generation equipment, railroad and periods when their focus is on quality and cost been adopted for the Advanced Refractories general engineering.
product line to concentrate on more The foundry market was significantly impacted differentiated, higher-margin products and Underlying Steel Flow Control revenue in the in 2013 by the difficulties in the mining industry solutions.
In line with this strategy, non-core Americas and EMEA was broadly in line with and, in particular, the reduction of investment low-margin businesses in Germany and Canada the underlying steel production trend.
Steel spending in the extraction of hard rock metallic were disposed of in February and July 2013, production in the Americas was 2.1% lower ores.
This impacted sales in the USA, Brazil and respectively.
than in 2012, with US and Brazilian steel output Australia in particular.
Furthermore, the truck lower by 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively.
In EMEA, Revenue in the Americas and EMEA were each and railroad markets remained stagnant, and steel production was 0.1% lower than in 2012, 1.8% lower than 2012, owing primarily to the the overall market in India and ASEAN was with a 2.4% reduction in Europe and C. I.
S, more initiative to withdraw from non-core low-margin disappointing.
However, Vesuvius Foundry than ofsetting a 20.7% increase in the Middle business which more than offset the effect of division made good progress in China where our East and Africa.
Revenue in EMEA grew 5.4% increased penetration of our more specialised solutions started to gain wider adoption.
despite a lack of underlying market growth, solutions.
Revenue in the Foundry division was down 7.0% owing predominantly to increased sales in the In Asia-Pacific, revenue was down by 8.9%, year-on-year, reflecting the reduced end-market Middle East and in the UK and strong sales of reflecting the impact of the disposal in 2012 activity and the restructuring of the Fused Silica fluxes through Metallurgica, a recent acquisition of the Andreco-Hurll construction business in product line.
which was integrated successfully in 2013.
Australia, which more than offset underlying Profitability, meanwhile, has improved during the Trading in Asia-Pacific, however, showed stronger growth.
period, with trading profit up 6.4% 12.6% on progression versus 2012.
Growth in the Indian A positive development was the increased an underlying basis and return on sales margin steel market volumes up 5.9% versus 2012, TM penetration achieved by our ELBY ladle improving from 9.1% to 10.4%, demonstrating following the start-up of new capacity which bottom, a product which allows steel makers to that self-help initiatives to improve flexibility, uses our higher value technology solutions, and maximise the quantity of clean steel they can tap including stemming the losses from the Solar increased penetration of our products in South from a ladle before slag pollution occurs.
Having Crucibles business, have increased the divisions Korea contributed to revenue growth in Asiaalready been well received in the North American resilience to end-market cycles.
market, this concept is now gaining traction in Revenues in all three regions were lower than During the year we successfully commissioned Europe and Asia-Pacific.
in 2012, owing to the challenging end-market our first robotic handling operation for Hyundai In addition, two new plants were commissioned conditions seen globally across the foundry in Korea.
This system brings reliability and speed in Port Kembla Australia and in Ras al casting industry.
to the steel production process whilst improving Khaima United Arab Emirates.
These are now In the Americas, despite growth in the Brazilian quality through a more precise and repeatable ramping up production and sales in line with truck industry, revenue was down 8.2% sequence of operations.
It also enhances safety expectations.
reflecting a 3% reduction in truck production in at our customers facilities by allowing them Combined, these developments clearly NAFTA and the lower volumes experienced by to isolate employees from a dangerous work demonstrate our innovative approach, our the US railroad and mining industries.
focused investment, and our ability to deliver Revenue in EMEA was 3.5% lower than in 2012, In conjunction with this improved penetration more engineering services to our customers reflecting a 3% reduction in German light vehicle of new products and solutions, the Steel Flow in addition to the sale of our technologically production and European truck production Control product line commissioned an extension advanced consumables.
TM volumes being lower by 4% year-on-year.
of its successful Viso operation at Trinec in the Foundry Division Czech Republic, and an integrated raw material In Asia-Pacific, 11% growth in Chinese light The Foundry division of Vesuvius, trading under mixing facility in Brazil.
The latter will allow us vehicle output was offset by a 4% and 14% the Foseco brand, is a world leader in the to take advantage of local raw materials in local reduction in Japanese and Indian car production, supply of consumable products and services currency and to reduce our carbon footprint respectively.
Additionally, the foundry sector in to the global foundry industry, which produces through more efficient logistics.
Australia was affected by the reduced investment castings used in a wide variety of engineered Advanced Refractories in the mining industry.
Some 40% of castings are The Vesuvius Advanced Refractories product We continue to mitigate the effects of these produced for the vehicle sector, comprising line offers a full range of specialist refractory challenging end-market conditions through approximately 25% for cars and light trucks materials for lining steelmaking vessels such manufacturing efficiency programmes and light vehicle and 15% for heavy trucks.
as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes, and for by maintaining the strength of the divisions Other end-markets include machinery for the applications in other high temperature process differentiated offering.
construction, agriculture and mining industries, industries.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 chief executives review continued Construction of a new manufacturing plant committed to maintaining a robust balance and three others have served less than three for foundry products in ChangShu, China sheet, and to delivering long-term dividend years in their present roles.
commenced during the year, with completion of growth for our shareholders.
This executive team is engaged in re-examining Phase One expected in mid-2014.
Following the demerger, we resolved to refocus all our past practices and in ensuring quality, In the Fused Silica product line, our glass roller Vesuvius on the businesses where we can offer consistency and technology are embedded at the business made good progress, benefiting from a unique value proposition and differentiation heart of everything we do.
This will be central investments related to vehicle manufacturing in from the competition.
In May, we completed to our success in reinforcing and growing our China and the USA.
the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing share of our targeted market segments.
In June division which had no fit with our core business 2013, we launched our Group-wide plan to Self-Help Initiatives of molten metal flow engineering, and which deliver a step change in our Quality performance.
Within an uncertain environment, we have carried significant metal financing requirements.
Significant progress has already been made, retained our focus on self-help actions to The majority of the proceeds of the transaction most notably in our Advanced Refractories improve our performance.
We have initiated were returned to shareholders through a 30 product line, and within our operations in China.
a focus on quality in all business segments million share buy-back as a sign that we are across the Group.
Significant improvement was The Groups overall strategy, reconfirmed by the committed to delivering attractive returns to our recorded in our Chinese steel operations and Board in June, places particular emphasis on shareholders.
new business was successfully initiated in Korea.
A new worldwide research centre for We sold our German brick production business, Foundry is being established in Enschede, in the As a result of our significant restructuring work VGT-Dyko, in February 2013 and our Canadian Netherlands, to be commissioned in mid-2014 the Fused Silica product line recovered from the construction business in July 2013, thereby and, in October, George Coulston PhD, MBA substantial challenges experienced in 2012 in increasing the focus of our Advanced Refractories joined the Group as Chief Technology Officer to the Solar Crucibles product line.
product line on higher margin segments.
drive forward this increased focus on technology Across the Group, specific effort was also development.
We continue to focus on annual Capital expenditure of 48 million represented dedicated to inventory reduction.
3.2% of revenue, with the focus being on improvements were experienced across the expanding our capacity in emerging economies Outlook business, most notably in Foundry.
We look and extending our research centres.
We expect the underlying trading environment forward to continuing this progress in 2014. during 2014 to be broadly similar to that Together, these actions generate savings in the Health and Safety experienced in 2013. cost of handling, warehousing and rejects, and The Board places great emphasis on the improve our overall productivity.
importance of health and safety in the workplace We are progressing with our plan to improve and in the communities in which we operate.
We operational efficiency across the Group.
These This emphasis on self-help has been rewarded measure the Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate actions should continue to drive improvement by productivity gains in both divisions, with as a key indicator of our performance.
Safety in our trading margins and working capital margins progressing markedly despite the weak is of paramount importance as our employees performance in 2014.
If the recent strength of market conditions and significant headwinds often operate in harsh environments.
Whilst we sterling continues it will have a negative impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuation towards are constantly evolving and improving our safety on our reported growth in 2014. the end of the year.
Overall margins progressed programmes, we did not achieve our targets from 8.5% in 2012 to 9.3% in 2013: underlying Our primary objectives for the medium term are in the reduction of accidents in 2013.
to improve margins further, increase investment regrettably, one of our colleagues lost his life in research and development, sustain our global Our successful efforts in inventory reduction in April 2013, in a work-related incident at our leadership in core businesses, grow further together with good control of receivables Chicago Heights, Illinois, facility.
It is important our presence in China, retain a strong balance allowed us to generate a substantial level of that, at the most senior level, we formally sheet in order to give us financial flexibility, cash flow, with a cash conversion rate of 107%.
acknowledge and reaffirm our objective of zero and progress our overall strategy of providing accidents in the workplace.
Further details of our Details of our programme of excellence, superior technical products and services for the safety programme are set out on pages 32 and encapsulating our Lean Programme, and focus steel and foundry industries.
on quality and safety are set out later in this Strategic Report.
A Renewed Senior Management Team The overall progress made in our first year owes Franois Wanecq Portfolio Management and much to the good understanding that has been Chief Executive Capital Allocation developed between our new, focused Board of 4 March 2014 Our strategy, and the focus of our management Directors and our widely renewed management team, is to grow those activities where we can team.
Of the ten-strong Group Executive develop and exploit synergies from existing Committee, three are in their first year of tenure technological and market expertise.
