Strategic Report: Chief Executives Strategic Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW: A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE FROM A ROBUST BUSINESS We serve structural growth markets providing leading engineering solutions to our customers in the minerals, oil and gas and power sectors.
Our products are used in critical processes.
Without our equipment, rock could not be turned into ore and shale oil and gas would remain underground.
Because of the industries in which we work, our products are exposed to high abrasion, high pressure and extreme temperature environments.
This delivers substantial aftermarket opportunities, which supports healthy and stable returns throughout the economic cycle.
In line with our aim of becoming a partner of choice, we have a strong commitment to making our operations and those of our customers and suppliers more efficient.
This is delivered through a market-leading network of service centres which ensures Weir products and services are available where and whenever our customers need them.
We rely on the dedication and commitment of our 15,000 2013 was a challenging year in many employees and I thank them for their efforts over the of our end markets but our relative course of 2013. outperformance demonstrated the It is our strategic commitment to innovation, collaboration, strength of the Groups strategy, value chain excellence and global capability which has the diversity of our portfolio and the helped deliver a solid performance in 2013 despite tough end market conditions.
As the year progressed we resilience of our aftermarket focussed revised down our second half expectations in response business model.
This was supported to the slower than anticipated recovery in certain markets.
by a robust performance from Minerals We still saw momentum build through the year as we delivered operational improvements across the business and growing momentum in Oil & Gas and fully captured growth opportunities for our extended as we saw a gradual recovery in product range.
This delivered strong second half profits upstream markets.
and cash generation in line with our updated guidance.
Our markets in 2013 Global economic growth remained subdued.
While there was good momentum in North America and signs of recovery in Europe, emerging market growth slowed and contributed to declines in metal prices.
In relation to our two largest exposures in the Minerals division, copper prices fell by over 10%, but long term prices remain supportive of investment.
However gold prices fell nearly 30% to below incentive levels and close to marginal cost levels at many mines.
Falling commodity prices, combined with project over-runs and senior management changes at a number of major mining companies, led to an increased concentration on efficiency and double-digit declines in capital spending.
10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 1 Revenue Operating profit 2,430m 467m -4% -4% New projects were subject to increased scrutiny which Our performance in 2013 led to fewer greenfield investments and those that Overall, in a challenging year, order input in constant proceeded were subject to delays.
Mining companies currency was up 3%, with an improving trend through identified brownfield investment as a key focus for future the year such that second half orders were 13% higher investment, given the lower risk and higher, faster returns than the equivalent period in 2012.
Aftermarket input typically available from such projects.
was up 16%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas and positive trends in Minerals, despite some earlier Commissioning of already committed greenfield destocking in South America.
In contrast, Power & developments, particularly in South America, Industrial aftermarket orders fell 2% as maintenance experienced delays as a result of regulatory and and outage work was delayed.
Overall, aftermarket operational issues, which had a greater impact than performance was offset by a 13% decline in original initially anticipated.
Despite this, and the overall fall equipment with input across the Group reflecting in mining capital expenditure, global ore production double-digit declines in greenfield mining orders, continued to expand to meet growing demand.
overcapacity in pressure pumping and power project delays.
Cross-selling the broader Minerals product In oil and gas, oil prices remained strong, supporting portfolio partially compensated for these declines.
good growth in international upstream markets particularly in the Middle East.
Group revenues were down 4% on a constant currency basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket In North America, tight oil production continued to sales increased to 63% from 55% in 2012.
In Minerals, increase with the US on track to overtake Saudi Arabia revenues were flat, with good aftermarket growth offset as the worlds largest oil producer.
Infrastructure by declines in original equipment.
Despite the benefits constraints and export restrictions led to US oil prices of the Mathena acquisition, Oil & Gas revenues declined trading at a discount to Brent Crude but they still remained as good aftermarket growth was more than offset by supportive for investment.
Natural gas prices remained substantial reductions in original equipment sales as a below incentive levels resulting in a double-digit decline result of a smaller opening order book and continued in gas drilling during 2013.
Total upstream investment subdued Pressure Pumping equipment demand.
Power & was slightly down with oil activity growing to almost 80% Industrial revenues were also broadly flat as tough hydro of rig activity by the year end.
markets offset good growth in the core Valves portfolio.
Despite a near 10% fall in the number of active rigs, the Despite falling revenues and increasingly competitive number of wells drilled only fell by 3% due to continuing markets, Group margins were maintained at record levels drilling and completion efficiencies.
This was contrary translating into a 4% fall in operating profit to 467m.
to an earlier market expectation that there would be an Negative operating leverage effects were offset by value increase in activity, particularly in the second half of 2013. chain initiatives which delivered over 40m in direct procurement savings and increased efficiencies across Specifically in pressure pumping, there was limited the Group.
In addition, the same initiatives contributed demand for capital equipment with a modest increase to a reduction in net working capital.
Free cashflow in frack fleet utilisation failing to eliminate excess increased to 168m, even after capital investment capacity.
Aftermarket demand rose through the year as totalling 108m, which will underpin future growth customers progressively returned to more normalised opportunities.
There continued to be growing interest in developing shale resources internationally, particularly Beyond our influence were the fluctuations of the in China, Argentina, Australia and Saudi Arabia.
international currency markets which saw significant Downstream investment in Asia and the Middle East shifts in exchange rates in the second half of the year, was robust with developments also under way in with the Australian Dollar and emerging markets North America to address infrastructure constraints.
currencies experiencing double-digit devaluations and our largest trading currency, the US Dollar, also Global power markets remained subdued with North depreciating significantly against Sterling.
These America impacted by reduced electricity prices as a foreign exchange movements contributed to reported consequence of low US natural gas prices.
Nuclear markets pre-tax profits being 5% lower than 2012. showed tentative signs of improvement with project activity resuming in China and positive developments in the UK.
General industrial activity levels continued to be subdued, 1.
Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items reflecting the global economic environment.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 Strategic Report: Chief Executives Strategic Review Capital investment CHIEF EXECUTIVES 108m STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED A strategy that produces long term value by the early progress of Pressure Pumping operations At Weir we have four strategic pillars which are the in China alongside good further development in the foundation of our continued success and the source Middle East.
Power & Industrial produced a strong of long term value for our shareholders.
Over the course performance in South Korea as the division continued of 2013, important progress was made in delivering to expand in structural growth markets.
We increased further innovation, collaboration, value chain excellence our manufacturing capacity in other key growth markets and extending our global capability.
with our purchase of the Xmeco foundry in South Africa and the Cheong foundry in Malaysia.
We announced Innovation is part of Weirs DNA.
Our company was plans to further expand our operations in Malaysia with originally founded in 1871 by engineers who invented the development of a new foundry, machine shop and a more efficient way to operate steam ship pumps.
The acquisition of Almost a century and a half later we are still innovating the Canada-based R Wales group of companies also to bring our customers leading engineering solutions.
extends our aftermarket position in the production and servicing of a wide range of rubber-lined wear In 2013, this meant establishing a comminution range, components for the North American oil sands and extending Minerals addressable market by circa 1bn mining sectors.
and opening up new opportunities to apply our differentiated materials expertise.
During the year, the first As well as pursuing new market opportunities we have orders for High Pressure Grinding Rolls were received and focussed on improving our own operational processes.
we saw good growth from our expanded screens range.
That is why value chain excellence is core to our strategy.
By becoming a more efficient operation we can sharpen The Minerals division also increased revenues from our performance and enhance our responsiveness to non-mining equipment markets with notable contract customers.
Significant progress has been made leveraging wins in the oil sands sector in Canada and the coal-seam the Groups procurement capability to deliver substantial gas industry in Australia.
We are also developing closer relationships with key suppliers, using our lean operating process In Oil & Gas, our Pressure Pumping bundling strategy, to help reduce customer lead times.
which packages together our full product offering, delivered aftermarket revenues at levels last seen at the Essential to the successful achievement of our strategy peak of the market despite a reduction in overall market is our people.
At Weir, we take great care to ensure our activity.
In Pressure Control, we successfully entered the highly skilled workforce is given the opportunity to flowback and zipper manifold markets towards the end achieve its full potential.
Progress has been made to of the year.
extend the support available for all of our people from apprentices to senior managers.
Succession planning By helping to make our customers more efficient we has continued to advance, with processes in place to are ensuring our future success too.
That is why we ensure we have the engineers and leaders to deliver have a clear strategic focus on collaboration.
This was growth going forward.
demonstrated in September when we signed a global framework agreement with Anglo American which will Two new appointments to the Group Executive were see our differentiated mining technology rolled out across made at the beginning of 2014.
John Heasley succeeded the world, supported by our market-leading service Kevin Spencer as Divisional Managing Director of Power network.
Internally, products have been leveraged & Industrial following Kevins retirement, and Andrew through the Oil & Gas forum which provides a platform Neilson was appointed Director of Strategy and for cross-divisional co-operation.
through the forum generated 14m in revenues in 2013, with swellable packers a particular success.
Safety Everyone at Weir shares an ambition to make our As a Group operating in 70 countries we have a company a zero-accident workplace.
I have given reputation for supporting our customers wherever they a personal guarantee to all of our employees that need us.
This means constantly improving our global I will support them in their right to stop any work they capability, including expanding our market leading global feel could be unsafe.
The importance of continuous service centre network to almost 200 locations.
This safety improvement was sadly reinforced during 2013 delivers real competitive advantages as demonstrated when a colleague was killed in a road traffic incident.
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Aftermarket input 16% This was a tragic reminder of the need to ensure our safety Outlook culture extends beyond our operational environment.
The Group remains well positioned to benefit from I firmly believe our zero-accident ambition is achievable.
the long term structural growth drivers in each of our Significant progress has been made and I am pleased principal end markets.
Demand for minerals will be to see a reduction in our Total Incident Rate TIR this underpinned by continuing population growth and the year but more needs to be done and will be done over industrialisation and urbanisation of emerging markets.
Growing desire for energy security and competitiveness Delivering on 2013 key priorities will support the further development of unconventional In 2013 we identified a series of key priorities for the year: oil and gas resources in North America and beyond.
Increasing energy usage in emerging markets, Continue to enhance supply chain performance to environmental concerns and ageing power plants in increase customer responsiveness and benefit from developed markets will drive demand for new and Group leverage.
Established new centres of excellence refurbished power infrastructure.
As easier to reach helping to deliver Group-wide procurement savings and higher quality resources become more scarce, equivalent to more than 3% of expenditure and in excess increasingly complex solutions are needed to access of our 30m target.
more difficult to reach natural resources placing greater demands on the engineering equipment provided by Capture North American and international Pressure the Group.
Entry to the flowback and zipper manifold markets was achieved with first wellhead In 2014, we anticipate that the Group will return to orders secured in the Middle East and Australia.
underlying growth despite mixed end market conditions.
We will continue to capture profitable aftermarket Extend Minerals presence in comminution markets.
opportunities, cross selling our full product portfolio Agreement was secured to give Weir exclusive control across all of our end markets and delivering further over the design, manufacture and distribution of KHD efficiencies from our Value Chain Excellence initiatives.
High Pressure Grinding Rolls HPGR for use in minerals We expect good constant currency revenue and profit processing applications with the first HPGR orders growth with Group margins broadly in line with 2013 now received.
A partnership with Taiwan-based Minyu levels, although our reported results are likely to be Machinery Corporation was signed to distribute and impacted by recent adverse foreign currency movements.
Strong cash generation is expected to continue assisted by further working capital initiatives.
Drive growth through an integrated global valves platform.
Valve orders were broadly stable year on 2014 key priorities year although momentum increased in the last quarter.
In 2014, we will aim to grow ahead of our end markets by: Significant progress was achieved in improving Increasing technical differentiation through the pursuit operational capacity to allow us to take advantage of of innovative new products.
Improving working capital performance by further extending value chain excellence initiatives.
Deliver an enhanced IT platform to support greater Further embedding safety at the heart of our culture.
Work is under way on enhancing internal Fully capturing growing aftermarket opportunities networks and developing common enterprise resource in Minerals and accelerating progress in our planning systems in each division which will enable the comminution strategy.
Group to operate more efficiently on a global scale.
Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback and broadening international oil and gas opportunities.
Improve working capital performance to enhance Accelerate Valves growth building on a strengthened returns.
While it took longer to demonstrate progress operational platform.
than I would have liked, it was encouraging to see a net working capital reduction in the second half of 2013, although there is still further work to be done.
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13
