William Hill PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief exeCuTives overvieW Performing sTrongly and delivering on our sTraTegy.
We are committed to being a leader in this area wherever we operate and will continue to work collaboratively with governments, regulators and our peers both to help our customers and to encourage industry-wide high operating standards.
The work of the last five years to expand our product range, improve our user experience, innovate with our mobile offering and invest substantial sums in the williamhill.
com brand have made us a formidable online competitor.
with ouR coRe cApAbility in spoRts betting That positions us very well ahead of the And expeRtise in gAming, we focus on thRee expected introduction of the Point of AReAs to expAnd ouR business.
developing A wideR Consumption tax from December 2014. pRoduct RAnge, encouRAging gReAteR multi-chAnnel This has the potential to radically change usAge And incReAsing the inteRnAtionAlisAtion the shape of the UK online gambling ofthebusiness.
market and we are confident William Hill can, over time, take more market share as a result.
In addition, we aim to mitigate Review of the year Importantly, Retail remains resilient, some of the impact in 2015 by achieving despite the ongoing squeeze on our core 2013 has been a milestone year for 15-20m of cost savings against what we customer bases discretionary spend and would otherwise have expected to spend WilliamHill in which we completed the large-scale expansion of online and the substantial Online and Australia in that year.
acquisitions while maintaining an appropriate capital structure through At the same time, our international Strategy overview awell-supported 373m rights issue expansion strategy is progressing well With our core capability in sports betting anda375m corporate bond issue.
with Onlines locally licensed offerings in and expertise in gaming, we focus on Italy and Spain taking market share, the At the same time, performance of the three areas to expand our business: US business now profitable and Australia existing business has been strong.
established as our second home market, developing a wider product range: Onlines Sportsbook performance with potential to expand into a more mass continues to be sparkling, with staking encouraging greater multichannel market customer base.
levels up around 400% over the five years usage: and since the start of 2009.
Mobile Sportsbook Gambling remains a source of political increasing the internationalisation now represents 39% of Sportsbook debate.
We have taken firm steps in the ofthe business.
We put greater focus last year to further improve responsible behind mobile gaming in 2013 and have gambling outcomes in our shops with the The aim of this focus over time is to made good progress in bringing our offer development and implementation of the increase the proportion of the Groups up to match the high standards weve ABB Code, addressing the areas that, we revenues coming from faster growing set with our Sportsbook.
Our product believe, can more effectively encourage online sources, from territories outside the range is vastly improved and the customer the small proportion of customers UK, thereby reducing our reliance on one experience is greatly enhanced, with who experience a problem to gamble large economy, and from locally licensed more improvements to come in 2014. responsibly.
We are keen to ensure any territories, which will provide greater The results reflect this, with mobile gaming decisions in this area are driven by facts visibility on our long-term revenue profile.
