Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Chief Executives review a clear vision and strategy that makes us different Dalton Philips Chief Executive Our strategic objectives See page 12 for further information How our KPIs link to strategy See page 14 for further information See our report visit: morrisons.
co. uk corporate ar2013 Operational highlights This has been a challenging year for Morrisons but we have continued to Average basket spend grow sales and invest in the long term LFL basis 22.85 success of our business.
1 Customers have felt the effects of the Market share % 11.8 tough economy but our strategy remains on track.
Were continuing to open convenience stores, develop our online Stores opened capabilities and doing more of what includes nine convenience 26 matters to help our customers.
Gross profit bn 1.2 Over 2.7m customers visit our Fresh Format stores each week.
1 source: IGD 8 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Turnover analysis Like-for-like Other 2012 13 2011 12 stores sales Total Total In-store m 13,294 380 13,674 13,436 Fuel m 4,172 69 4,241 4,039 Other sales m 201 201 188 Total turnover ex-VAT m 17,466 650 18,116 17,663 In-store sales Sales per square foot 20.24 11.70 19.84 20.74 Customer numbers per week m 11.0 0.4 11.4 11.4 Customer spend 22.85 16.93 22.63 22.67 Turnover growth formats, using convenience stores for top up shopping, increasing During the period total turnover increased by 3% to 18.1bn their use of the online channel, putting fewer items into their 2011 12: 17.7bn.
On a like-for-like basis, total store sales, baskets and managing their spend carefully.
Average basket size, excluding fuel, decreased slightly by 0.2% which included a despite inflation, was in line with the prior year.
However, although contribution from new store openings of 1.9% and a decrease we welcomed an average of 11.4m customers each week into our in like-for-like sales of 2.1%.
stores, this was 0.4m fewer than in the prior year on a like-for-like basis.
Once again sales growth was generally strongest in London Disposable incomes continued to come under pressure during and the South East although it is a mixed picture and in all regions the year from the unwelcome impact of inflation on commodities, of the country there are areas that are growing well.
with the increasing price of oil again being felt at the pump and throughout the supply chain.
For the third year in a row, consumers Our below market sales performance was disappointing.
Whilst were faced with increases in the price of oil, albeit at a slower rate we are at a structural disadvantage in that we do not yet have than previously, and in this environment consumers shop around a meaningful presence in either convenience stores or in online, carefully to find the best deals.
Our Fuel Britannia programmes the two fastest growing sectors of the market, we did not perform and innovative Fuel Saver initiative have proved highly attractive as well as we should have in a trading environment that should to budget conscious drivers.
Total fuel sales increased by 5.0% have played more to Morrisons strengths.
Whilst our base pricing in the year.
was strong, we do need to do more to communicate our value message and our unique points of difference.
We did run some Consumers also had to absorb the effects of significant increases good promotions but we need to do more to improve the overall in the prices of other core commodities, adding to the pressure effectiveness of our promotional programme and ensure that our on household budgets.
In this environment customers inevitably pricing is clear and consistent.
We will be addressing these issues changed their shopping habits.
They shopped around in different in the coming year.
Our value proposition of everyday low prices, coupled with industry leading offers, and the flexibility of our vertical integration enabled us to meet our customers need for great fresh food at affordable prices.
Reinforce our Seize the opportunities differences 9 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Chief Executives review a clear vision and strategy that makes us different continued Operating results During the year Group turnover grew by 3%.
In a low sales growth environment it is important that we manage our cost base tightly.
2012 13 2011 12 After costs of goods sold, the two main areas of cost are store Summary income statement m m wages and distribution costs and we have continued to focus on Turnover 18,116 17,663 improving efficiency in both of these areas, whilst maintaining Gross profit 1,206 1,217 the highest standards of customer service.
During the year, with improved processes and systems, we were once again able Gross profit margin % 6.7% 6.9% to improve our store labour costs relative to sales, with in-store Other operating income 80 86 labour productivity increasing by 4%.
The investments we Administrative expenses 336 329 have made in systems improvements also enabled us to build on previous successes by improving Distribution productivity by 4%.
Underlying operating profit 950 974 Property transactions 1 1 Other operating income fell by 6m 7% primarily due to a Operating profit 949 973 decrease in recycling credits.
Underlying operating 5.2% 5.5% Continuing the trend we reported last year, administration profit margin % expenses increased by 2.1%, a rate below the rate of inflation, Net finance charges 70 26 which reflects the Groups commitment to ongoing strong cost control.
Taxation 232 257 Profit for the period 647 690 We bring great value fresh food to our customers every day.
10 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Market overview In a tough economic climate, the UK grocery market continued to be a very challenging environment in which to operate, with consumers seeing no respite in the economy.
1 Market growth was driven by inflation, which averaged 2.8% 1 during the year.
CPI food inflation averaged 4.1% reaching 1 5.5% by the end of the year.
With commodity and energy costs increasing faster than average wages, household incomes continued to be squeezed throughout 2012.
2 In 2012, the UK grocery market grew by 3.7% over the previous 2 year and was worth 101bn.
The fundamental changes that are taking place in the market show shoppers being increasingly drawn away from traditional supermarkets towards the online, convenience and discount channels.
3 The online grocery market grew by 15.7% during the year to 3 3 6.5bn.
Online sales now account for 3.9% of the UK grocery market and are expected to grow significantly faster than traditional grocery over the coming years.
The convenience market too is expected to continue growing at a faster rate than the traditional grocery market for some time to come.
More shoppers now regard price as their first consideration when choosing between products compared with a year ago.
Consumers are also growing increasingly forensic in the way they shop: building their knowledge of how much things cost, down trading and switching to own label products, managing their consumption and actively searching and taking advantage of promotions.
Our strategy reflects our view of how the market will evolve, The proliferation of promotional activity amongst retailers has what will be most appealing to our customers and how we make driven consumers to seek more personalised offers in return best use of our existing capabilities.
It is based on six convictions for their loyalty and spend.
Retailers are responding to this about the type of business that our customers want us to be: by leveraging their customer relationship management systems and improving their in-store experience.
Food focused not generalist Strategy Experiential over purely functional In 2010 we outlined our vision to make Morrisons Different and Better than Ever.
Three years on, we believe that our vision Value is forever is even more relevant today and that we have the right strategy Skills not just drills to achieve it.
General merchandise clicks not bricks We are proud of what makes us different a distinctive offer to customers centred around fresh food, craft skills and vertical Multi-format and multi-channel integration through our manufacturing businesses: the way we lead and support our colleagues: and our unique heritage.
Being different means building on these advantages, which set us apart We set these convictions out for the first time last year and they from all our competitors and position us to succeed.
Being better form the base for the business we are building today.
Over the than ever is about improving the way we do business doing past year we have seen continuing changes in the market.
Value more of the things that matter for our customers making great for money has come even more to the fore for consumers and food, offering outstanding service and being more efficient so there is an ongoing shift towards multi-format, multi-channel we can pass on the best savings possible.
It also means seizing shopping, with more and more general merchandise being opportunities to grow the business profitably through new formats, bought online.
These changes confirm our convictions and we channels and categories, to meet more of our existing customers are confident that we have the right strategy for future growth.
needs and to reach new customers.
We have a clearly defined set of initiatives which will enable us to deliver our vision.
These are grouped under the three strategic objectives of driving the topline, increasing efficiency and capturing growth.
1 source: Office of National Statistics 2 source: Kantar Worldpanel 3 source: IGD 11
