Chief Executives review In summary t Strong financial results and cash generation.
t Further progress in rening strategy and business models.
t France strategy being executed assetout at the half year.
t Several small in-ll acquisitions completed in the year.
During the year we managed the balance Focus on performance sheet conservatively.
Working capital andgrowth was tightly controlled and capital The Group delivered a The Group generated revenue of expenditure increased to 140 million 12,854 million 2011 12: 12,345 million strong overall result 2011 12: 135 million as we funded 4.1 per cent ahead of last year with like-fororganic expansion of the business.
against a backdrop of like growth of 2.9 per cent.
Gross margin We continue to place a great deal in the ongoing business improved to 27.8 good market conditions of emphasis on driving strong cash per cent 2011 12: 27.5 per cent despite generation.
Operating cash ow was strong in the USA, improving very competitive market conditions and at 633 million 2011 12: 747 million.
underlying margins were 0.1 per cent conditions in the UK and ahead.
Trading profit of 725 million Group strategy and 2011 12: 655 million was 10.7 per cent continued weak demand higher than last year.
The trading margin business model in Continental Europe.
was 30 basis points higher at 5.6 per cent.
Our This year Ferguson achieved a record process of top down resource allocation trading margin of 7.3 per cent in its 60th to those businesses which have, or are anniversary year since incorporation.
capable of, market leadership will give We continue to see excellent opportunities us the best returns.
In addition, through to make incremental improvements to the bottom-up detailed business unit strategies business in the next few years as long as we will make sure we grow our best markets remain reasonable.
businesses faster than the competition.
This parallel path of resource allocation and performance management isoutlined in our value creation model.
We operate in fragmented markets and the structural growth opportunity is significant.
Wolseley plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview We want to drive profitable growth in each Power Equipment Direct, a Chicago Wolseleys value creation model business unit and during the monthly based online distributor of outdoor power performance reviews we review like-forequipment: and Keramikland, a small like revenue growth, balancing this with Swiss sanitary business.
In September a relentless focus on improving gross 2012, we completed the acquisition of margins and keeping costs under control.
Davis & Warshow, which is a leading Gain plumbing distribution business in New market Given the tough economic backdrop in share York.
The North East of the USA continues some of our markets we are keeping a to be a significant opportunity for regional keen eye on operating costs, particularly expansion for the US business.
where we have experienced volume declines.
However, even where markets Over the past four years we have Expand profitable Improve gross are growing and we are increasing our deleveraged the balance sheet and this p productivity growth margins investment, we still want to ensure that has been achieved through a keen focus weconvert revenue growth strongly to on cash generation.
We want to maintain trading profit.
a strong balance sheet which will enable us to invest in both organic growth and Improve During the year we have continued to in-ll acquisitions while at the same time returns and rene the portfolio to focus on attractive cash rewarding shareholders with an attractive market positions where we believe we can and sustainable ordinary dividend through win.
At the half year results we announced the economic cycle.
Net debt at 31 July the outcome of the strategic review of 2013 was 411 million 31 July 2012: our activities in France.
Our proposals netcash of 45 million after payment included restructuring the Building ofthe special dividend of 348 million Materials business and refocusing it as on31 December 2012. a regional player in the north of France where we have a decent scale position.
Rening our strategy driving This will be achieved through the sale of towards a systematically 88 branches in the south to Chausson, a regional distributor.
Following employee managed branch network consultation and competition clearance in This year Ferguson Now that we have a strong set of business the summer we are now in the process of units to invest in and build, we are achieved a record trading transferring those branches to Chausson.
continuing to evolve our business unit We have also agreed to collaborate in margin of 7.3 per cent strategies and in doing so we are reviewing the future on product sourcing which will the business models employed by each.
We will retain the inits 60th anniversary Here, our objective is always to have the Wood Solutions business which whilst lowest cost platform in the industry, to drive year since incorporation.
cyclical is profitable and cash generative.
continuous improvement by better process Management responsibility was transferred management and to make sure that we are to the Central Europe region in the year.
executing our processes at the right point While organic growth remains a priority, in the organisation.
Some processes we we have continued to make selective in-ll will leave very local, whilst others we will acquisitions to our existing businesses.
execute above the branch network to give These have been small in-lls so far in us benets of scale.
our existing geographies so we can We are now identifying and using the best integrate them rapidly into our strong core processes in our most successful businesses, extract the cost synergies and business units to derive further benets deliver attractive returns.
In line with this from a more systematic approach.
Over the approach we made sixsmall acquisitions medium term this will mean gradually this year including: 22 Burdens branches moving away from a model where all in the UK, a leading utilities business: processes and decisions are based in the branch.
For example, in Stockholm, Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Chief Executives review continued Sweden, this year we relocated outbound delivery from distribution centres, avoiding logistics for eight branches that would cost duplication.
We will move to labour normally be run independently, into a models that reect the customers needs Over time and as single hub for the region.
This has given by the month, week, day and even by the newtechnology becomes us productivity benets by avoiding cost hour rather than a set 9 to 5 plus overtime duplication, and has freed up the branches structure.
Overall, people will transition more freely available to concentrate on customer service.
from being generalists to masters of a few We are able to offer customers later key specialist skills and this will require us ourcustomers are ordering and earlier delivery times which to be more functionally skilled, for example, increasingly choosing they hugely value.
in supply chain, marketing and24 7 IT support and recovery.
how they interact The evolution from a loose confederation to a systematically managed network will We will also utilise Group business models withus.
have a significant impact on the exibility of where they can be replicated in other decision-making in our branches.
For example, during the year need to achieve greater compliance with we have taken our successful Build.
com our core processes in areas such as pricing business to consumer B2C e-commerce discounts, identifying and maintaining business and, using the same business core product ranges and supply chain model approach and a common IT programmes.
We will have to achieve better platform, launched new businesses in the efficiency from our vendor programmes UK and Canada.
Over time, and as new to ensure we do get the best terms and technology such as mobile e-commerce there will be increased use of centralised becomes more freely available, our sourcing processes and private label in customers are increasingly choosing specic categories.
There will be more howthey interact with us.
Our values We act with We drive for We value our integrity results and people improvement We conduct all our We listen and respond We understand, respect activities with fairness, to the needs of our and value personal and honesty and integrity.
customers, thenexceed cultural differences: their expectations: we are we are open and honest not happy with the status in all our dealings with quo, and constantly strive our people.
Wolseley plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview We are also building market leading So, in summary, in making this major transactional B2B e-commerce sites transition for Wolseley the overriding factor for the major geographies as we know has been to ensure that the evolution of our The overall scores customers value doing business with us business is always in service of customer forboth service and this way.
Customers dont always want to needs.
The theme of this years annual make purchases face-to-face in a branch, report is listening to our customers employee engagement particularly for everyday items, and we and you can see several examples of the need to give them greater exibility and innovations we are bringing to the business have continued to choice over how they do business with in support of this.
These are outlined in the improve across all us.
In the USA, B2B e-commerce now operating reviews on pages 26 to 37. represents about 9 per cent of revenue ourbusinesses.
andwe expect this to grow signicantly Corporate Responsibility over the next few years.
This year we have We see Corporate Responsibility as a achieved over 6.5 million self-service events reection of how we want to do business where B2B customers have completed atWolseley.
I am pleased to report excellent an activity online rather than directly in a progress on a number of fronts this year branch or on the phone.
including higher employee engagement We are making progress in improving scores, better controls in the management customer service and employee of our ethics programme and reductions engagement in our businesses which in our carbon emissions and waste.
we have been regularly measuring for More remains to be done and it was several years now.
The overall scores for disappointing to report an increase in both service and employee engagement the Groups injury and lost workday rate.
have continued to improve across all our We have set a clear path to improve our businesses.
We know that at the heart performance in this and other areas which ofour business, great people are working you can read about in the Corporate very hard to provide great service to our Responsibility report on pages 48 to 63. customers.
This allows us to generate a margin and ultimately a decent profit and Our people good returns on capital, but it is our people Finally, on behalf of the Executive team, who absolutely drive this performance from I would like to thank all of my Wolseley every one of our 2,917 branches across colleagues for their continued contribution the world.
and commitment to our customers.
It is We have some real strengths and the their energy, enthusiasm, commitment and work we have undertaken shows us that dedication to providing great service that we deliver excellent service in many of our makes Wolseley such a great company branches.
However, it also shows us areas towork for.
of improvement down to specic branches and customers, which we can act upon.
The feedback has also reinforced that price as a choice factor continues to rank relatively low on many customers priorities behind product availability, staff knowledge, next day delivery and breadth of the Ian Meakins Chief Executive product range showing that customers recognise the value of these benets and are willing to pay for them.
This gives us great confidence that as we continue to improve service we can also incrementally improve gross margins.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Listening to our customers I want to spend more time helping my customers Stockholm is the largest into a single hub.
Now all deliveries metropolitan market in Sweden.
for Stockholm are dealt with centrally Our Swedish building materials which gives the customer more business, Beijer, is the market exibility on delivery times and also leader and has a strong presence efficiency savings for the business, with in Stockholm operating from eight better capacity planning for deliveries branches across the city.
Instead of across the city.
Most importantly it has putting more capacity in branches that freed up time in the branches for staff would normally be run independently, to focus on serving customers and we recently centralised the outbound growing the business.
logistics for the Stockholm region Wolseley plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview I dont have time to chase paper Electronic proof of delivery and when required.
Previously the ePOD was deployed this manual process was much slower for year in the USA and is providing the customer and time consuming for a more efficient approach to associates.
Customers can now be managing customer deliveries set up to receive ePOD 100 per cent than traditional manual methods.
of the time, or they can access ePOD The new system allows our drivers themselves online.
The end result to capture electronic signatures on is providing a new level of customer outbound deliveries at the job site at service and efficiency savings at the the time of delivery.
With just a few key same time.
strokes, a POD can now be printed, faxed or emailed to a customer as Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
