08 Introduction Chief Executive Officers Statement Our strategy is clear and we are making good progress to deliver profitable growth and shareholder value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 09 We are confident we will achieve further underlying growth in the year ahead www.
com investor-relations Business position reported a loss in the year of 6.5m, As a consultancy, we rely on our team of I am pleased to report that the year has been focusing on closing out legacy dedicated people throughout the world, to 31 March 2013 was another good year.
contracts and building a pipeline of who carry out their work quietly and While future market conditions remain new business.
brilliantly, whether they are client facing uncertain, we are building positive or in a functional support team.
We trust momentum and are starting to see In the Middle East, protracted negotiations our people to go beyond what is required growth opportunities return.
on contract variations and delays in and our clients trust them to excel.
We contract awards had an impact on our are committed to ensuring that we are Our underlying profit before tax was financial performance and have suppressed developing our people so that they can 104.5m, an increase of 2.9% over last headcount growth.
Notwithstanding this, deliver the best solutions for clients as years profit of 101.6m, on turnover we see significant project opportunities in well as achieving fulfilling careers.
that was broadly unchanged at 1.7bn.
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and the We believe underlying profit is a more Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in the year ahead.
Our strategy remains clear: to drive representative measure of performance, shareholder value by focusing on growth, removing the items that may give a Our Asia Pacific and Europe businesses selectively increasing our geographic distorted view of performance.
In the have continued to trade well, increasing footprint through targeted international current year we have removed profits the diversity of their client and skills base.
expansion while continuing to deliver on disposals and costs associated with In particular, the industrial client base of improved financial performance in all disposals of 4.5m 2012: 7.2m, Faithful Gould is providing balance and our markets and geographies.
amortisation of acquired intangible assets good growth opportunities.
Asia Pacific of 10.0m 2012: 4.2m, including the remains a key area for investment for us In the medium term, our goal remains write down of intangible assets in our and we aim to deliver focused growth to generate a margin above 8% across Peter Brown business in North America, in this region.
In Europe, our largest all of our businesses and regions.
together with one-off pension gains of operations are in Scandinavia which is 4.3m 2012: 30.9m arising as we a stable, well funded market in which We will grow organically and through continue to actively manage our pension we have performed well.
bolt-on acquisitions that add new skills liabilities.
The unadjusted reported profit or a regional presence.
We delivered good organic growth in our Energy business where we are well Conclusion The Groups profit after tax for the year of positioned in the growth markets of These results could not have been 88.4m 2012: 106.8m is shown in the oil and gas and nuclear.
We have achieved without the dedication of our Consolidated Income Statement page 100. strengthened our service offering by people and the continued support of our continuing to team up and partner with clients.
We are proud of our teamwork Headcount grew steadily over the year companies offering complementary skills.
among colleagues and with our clients closing at 17,899, a 2.7% increase on last We will continue to invest in this business and stakeholders.
I would like to thank years closing position.
to grow organically and through targeted all our stakeholders for their continued acquisitions.
The UK region had a good year, achieving our strategy to sell the UK highways Priorities We have delivered another year of good services business, the completion of which Our commitment to safety in our results and made notable progress is expected in the summer, allowing us workplace and on all of our project sites towards the implementation of our to focus on higher margin businesses.
Over the past year we strategy over the past 12 months.
We have We have achieved positive momentum have maintained a positive safety culture continued to optimise our portfolio with across all our UK businesses, resulting through our worldwide Safe by Choice the agreed sale of our UK highways in headcount growth in continuing programme and our senior leadership services business and sustained positive operations.
Workload in the rail business teams received behavioural safety momentum in our UK, Asia Pacific and has strengthened and utilisation is much coaching to help us maintain a natural Europe and Energy businesses.
We remain improved and our water business is state of safety consciousness within the focused on driving operational excellence performing well through the Asset Group.
We have achieved a 17% increase throughout the Group to improve margins, Management Plan AMP cycle.
in near miss reporting which demonstrates optimise our portfolio and meet the a more proactive approach to safety evolving needs of our clients.
Our strategy L Joe Boyer became CEO, North America management.
We were recognised by is clear and unchanged.
I am confident in April to lead this business to growth.
the Royal Society for the Prevention of we will achieve further underlying growth While this regions consultancy business Accidents RoSPA with the achievement in the year ahead.
continues to experience soft market of a Gold Award for Occupational Safety conditions, the highways and and a Diamond Jubilee Award in Prof Dr Uwe Krueger transportation business is operating conjunction with the Olympic Delivery Chief Executive Officer well.
Our Peter Brown construction Authority for outstanding health and 12 June 2013 management at risk business, which safety on the London 2012 Games project.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction
