Chief Executives statement A clear strategy for growth 2013 has been an exceptional year for Our strategy is to drive the development Xaar and represents the fourth year in a of Xaar technology into selected multiple row of substantial growth in both revenue applications and industries, delivering and profits for the Company.
This years sustainable profitable growth.
Our tactics excellent financial performance has been are to become the primary enabler of mainly driven from the acceleration of change in our target markets, leading the the adoption of Xaars market-leading initial wave of conversion, and then to technology in the Chinese ceramic protect our position through replacement tile market and good progress in the product sales enabled by continuous development of the packaging market.
The size of the Sales growth has been enabled by a conversion opportunity, the rate of change, rapid ramp in output from the Huntingdon and the key characteristics enabling that facility which has been working at well change will vary from market to market.
over 100% of its standard capacity OEMs are mostly market specific which for the majority of the year.
means we work with a number of OEM customers in developing their inkjet Two important investment decisions solutions for a discrete market.
Firstly, we began a programme to further increase capacity Further detail on our strategy and at the Huntingdon site to ensure that growth progress made in 2013 is set out over the next few years would not be in the Our strategy section.
restricted by the availability of production Market adoption of our technology capacity.
Secondly, we accelerated the Ian Dinwoodie strengthened during the year with revenues growth in R&D resources and re-organised Chief Executive from industrial applications growing 79% the R&D function to ensure that appropriate 18 March 2014 and packaging applications growing 31%.
resources are allocated to the development Our graphics business grew very modestly of both our existing bulk piezo technology and is expected to grow faster following and our new thin film piezo technology.
Within Given that the industry is still at an early Industrial applications, the ceramic tile stage of the transition from analogue to business moved ahead very strongly digital printing, and the size of the potential with laminate and advanced additive opportunity, we are committed to continuing manufacturing applications making to make substantial R&D investment for encouraging but early modest progress.
many years to ensure that Xaar maximises its future potential.
8 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2013 has been an exceptional year for Xaar and represents the fourth year in a row of substantial growth in both revenue and profits.
Within the packaging applications the Significant progress has been achieved Whilst growth is expected to be more primary label revenues grew strongly on our thin film technology development modest over the next period, looking further whilst the coding and marking revenues during the year, culminating in a successful forward the opportunities for digital print were stable.
Good technical progress was internal technology demonstration in continue to develop, with industry forecasts made in the direct-to-shape application: December 2013.
The first thin film product projecting that the conversion to digital over material revenues are not expected until development is now under way and as the next 10 years is expected to be twice 2015 at the earliest.
previously stated we would anticipate that seen in the last 20 years.
Technology sampling this to customers in 2015 with and product developments are key to The doubling of R&D spending and the first commercial revenues planned for late this change and Xaar is committed to creation of two discrete R&D labs, each 2016.
The thin film programme is aimed at maximising its opportunity by continuing focused on its own technology stream, is converting new markets and accelerating to push at the forefront of this revolution.
intended to enable a multi-year pipeline the conversion of others through a portfolio of new products based on both bulk and After 12 challenging and enjoyable years of new products.
During 2014 at Xaar I have decided to retire during 2015. both the Xaar 1002 and the Xaar 501 Substantial capacity and capability have My decision is entirely a personal one, and products will launch, which are intended been added to the Company during the I remain fully committed to continuing the to both strengthen our offering in existing year including 19.8 million of capital asset development of the Company between 2 markets and open up new opportunities.
additions, 2,500 m of additional laboratory now and my planned retirement date.
We Also releasing in early 2014 is our gigabit and design development space, and over are beginning the search for my successor ethernet based electronics sub-system 300 people hired.
I would like to thank all now, and I will ensure that a smooth named XPM.
This product offers customers of our staff for their efforts to achieve transition occurs during 2015. significantly increased data transfer rates this substantial change in scale of the and memory for data intensive applications.
Company over such a short period.
Additionally, during 2014 we will market test a completely new bulk piezo jetting structure aimed at significantly higher film weight applications where drop sizes up to 10,000 times the size normally used in digital printing are required.
If successful, material revenues could be expected from 2015 onwards.
