STRATEGIC REPORT Chief exeCutives review Ian King, Chief Executive Overview US Overall, the Group delivered a solid In the US, budget uncertainties continued to performance in 2013, against the background impact government spending and procurement of reduced government spending and tough decisions throughout 2013.
A proactive focus on costs measures resulting from the 2011 Budget and enhanced competitiveness allowed us to Control Act either reduced or delayed many protect our margins across the majority of the US activities.
The Sequestration measures business and we secured further contract wins were targeting savings of approximately in the US, Saudi Arabia and internationally.
$450bn 272bn from US defence budgets Our results also benefited from the satisfactory over a ten-year period, equivalent to an conclusion of price escalation negotiations approximately 10% overall reduction.
As with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, relating to certain areas of spending were protected from an existing contract to supply Typhoon aircraft.
these reductions, such as military personnel We have continued to invest in research and accounts, the budgets funding much of the technology and to develop business in US defence industrial base are likely to be international markets, and our strong order disproportionately impacted.
backlog and robust balance sheet as we enter In addition to the Sequestration measures, in 2014 are testament to our business health.
October, the political disagreements over the terms of a Continuing Resolution to cover the remainder of the 2013 fiscal year resulted in apartial US government shutdown.
Following the brief shutdown, a Continuing Resolution was passed to fund the government until 15January 2014.
Whilst some disruption resulted from the shutdown, the impact to theGroups overall financial performance wasnot material.
In December, a bipartisan budget proposal fora two-year federal budget agreement was approved by Congress and signed into law.
The resulting spending bill was approved in January 2014, far earlier in the fiscal cycle than in previous years, and whilst this legislation does not eliminate the Sequester completely, it does ease the significant and indiscriminate cuts that were expected in 2014 and 2015.
Given this environment, we based our planning assumptions on a progressive reduction in our US defence and security businesses of approximately 15% for 2013 and 2014.
The recent budget developments return some clarity to near-term US government spending, although pressures to reduce spending and address the US deficit are expected to continue.
20 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REpORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT BAE SyStEmS hAS Built Strong momEntum in dElivEring on itS StrAtEgy.
In September 2014, Scotland will hold an Nonetheless, there does seem to be clear UK independence referendum.
The decision on support for some key programmes, including Notwithstanding the continued pressure on independence from the UK is a matter for the the F-35 Lightning II in which BAESystems many areas of government spend in the UK, people of Scotland.
However, BAE Systems has a significant participation.
our business is in good shape and the outlook has significant interests and employees in remains stable.
Much of the Groups UK Some of the Groups US activities are not Scotland, and it is clear that continued union business is concentrated on a small number directly exposed to US government budgets.
offers greater certainty and stability for our of large programmes where multi-year Our commercial electronics business business.
In the event that Scotland voted to contracts provide good visibility, as evidenced continues to grow and we anticipate a rising become independent, we would need to by the large UK order backlog.
contribution from US Foreign Military Sales.
discuss the way forward with the Ministry of InDecember, the Republic of Korea finalised In the air sector, the first Tranche 3 Typhoon Defence and UK government, and work with an agreement with the US government for has flown and we have recently been able to them to deliver the best solution in those BAESystems to perform upgrades and reveal previously classified footage of the circumstances.
systems integration for its fleet of more successful flight trials of the Taranis unmanned than130 F-16 aircraft.
Deliveries of Typhoon continued Our Applied Intelligence business formerly opportunity, potentially worth approximately to European partner nations.
BAESystems Detica, which is well-positioned $1.3bn 0.8bn, is not yet included in our in the fast-growing commercial cyber security In the maritime sector, in November, order backlog.
sector, has substantially increased its order BAESystems reached agreement with the backlog.
The Group also continues to be successful UKgovernment on measures to enable the inwinning competitive new business.
In implementation of a restructuring of its UK In February 2013, Applied Intelligence and March, BAE Systems was awarded a five-year naval ships business.
The measures included Vodafone agreed the formation of a five-year contract for the operation and management a restructuring of the Queen Elizabeth Class partnership to provide businesses with a ofthe Holston Army Ammunition Plant in the aircraft carrier contract to accommodate range of advanced mobile communications US.
In August, the Group was awarded an changes to the programme and to reflect its security products and services, initially eight-year contract to maintain the readiness increased maturity.
In addition, a programme focused on smartphones and tablets.
of Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic to build three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Applied Intelligence signed, in September, missiles in the US.
InOctober, the Group Royal Navy was announced.
Consultation with aframework contract with the Foreign & received a US Army contract for Low-Rate trade union and employee representatives Commonwealth Office FCO to deliver service Initial Production on the Paladin Integrated commenced regarding the rationalisation of management integration services across the Management programme, a tracked artillery the naval ships business to address FCOs global IT estate.
In December, the US Navy awarded anticipated reduced workload levels beyond BAE Systems a three-year, $171m 103m the current high volume of activity on the contract to continue providing engineering aircraft carrier programme.
Contracts to enact andintegration support to Trident II D-5 this overall agreement are forecast to be submarine-launched ballistic missiles.
Good progress has been made in defining the In Land & Armaments, we have refocused Type 26 frigate programme to replace Type 23 thebusiness on core markets and our vessels, with over 600 employees now working capabilities in combat vehicles, amphibious on the contract.
vehicles, artillery systems and naval surface fires.
We have also rationalised the land Submarines activity continues to progress on facilities more broadly, reducing 51 sites to 15 the Astute Class programme and workload is centres.
Against a background of substantially increasing on the Successor programme in reduced demand, we are working to protect preparation for a possible replacement of the key industrial capabilities and margins.
Performance issues recently emerged in the multi-year Radford Army Ammunition Plant support contract.
Customer volume reductions require this contract to be restructured and we aim to renegotiate an agreement on this key military capability.
BAE SyStEmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21 StRAtEGIC REPORt CHIEF EXECUtIVES REVIEW John Emmons Senior Lead Full motion Video Analyst making more moments With BAE Systems activity-based intelligence, a computer-assisted problem solving methodology, John Emmons and his team in the US are able tostreamline the process of digging through vast amounts ofheavily layered data to reveal patterns and anomalies, thought of as intelligence treasures by intelligence analysts studying the behaviour ofpotential threats.
Our activity-based intelligence technology helps tomake big data small.
Peter Leahy Project manager, Air Warfare Destroyer weathering the storm To overcome the lack of shipbuilding skills in Williamstown, Australia, peter leahy set about re-skilling the team on the latest methods, as well as importing skills from BAE Systems in the UK.
This single-minded focus to work efficiently and to deliver high-quality results paid off with at least a 30% reduction in costs.
This impressive turnaround also helped to secure future work for the shipyard.
1 Non-UK US order intake bn International The significant flow of new contract awards Building on the strong international order with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continued 2013 9.3 intake performance in 2012, a further 9.3bn through 2013.
Contracts valued at 1 2012 11.2 of non-UK US order intake was achieved in approximately 6.4bn have been signed in the year.
theyear, including a five-year, 1.8bn 2011 4.8 follow-on support contract on the Salam While the opportunity was not included in our 2010 4.3 Typhoon programme and a further 1.5bn business plans, we were disappointed that contract for Tornado aircraft upgrades and the government of the United Arab Emirates 1 Non-UK US order intake % of total weapons under the Saudi British Defence UAE elected not to proceed with proposals Co-operation programme.
2013 48 regarding a range of defence and security capabilities including the potential supply of In December, the Swedish government 2012 50 Typhoon aircraft.
nonetheless, the aircraft exercised its option to buy 102 more BvS10 2011 29 fully met the customers exacting requirements all-terrain vehicles in an order worth 2010 26 and BAE Systems stands ready to work with approximately $120m 72m.
In December, the UAE to address any future requirements.
FnSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, received a $360m 217m contract from We continue to pursue a number of theland forces of a Middle Eastern country opportunities in international markets.
forthe upgrade of M113 tracked armoured Building on the successful sale of Typhoon personnel carriers.
and Hawk aircraft in Saudi Arabia and Oman, a number of military aircraft-related The Group was disappointed that the opportunities have been identified.
Canadian government decided to cancel its Close Combat Vehicle programme.
However, Aircraft deliveries on the Salam Typhoon we continue to pursue opportunities for programme to Saudi Arabia re-commenced combat vehicles with the Swedish CV90 inApril.
tracked infantry fighting vehicle forming the basis for a current bid in Denmark.
In addition, In February 2014, the governments of the BAESystems is working with polish Defence UKand Kingdom of Saudi Arabia agreed Holdings to address substantial replacement priceescalation terms relating to the Typhoon vehicle requirements expected to emerge later aircraft under the Salam programme and this decade in poland.
these have been reflected in contractual arrangements between the UK government BAE Systems continues to develop and BAESystems.
The terms of the agreement opportunities for Bradley fighting vehicles are broadly consistent with the Groups prior inSaudi Arabia and, more recently, another trading outlook for 2013.
Cash settlement emerging requirement in the region.
isexpected to follow this pricing agreement, commencing in the early part of 2014.
The The success in South Korea on the F-16 Group believes this to be an equitable outcome upgrade programme is a significant for all parties and is pleased to conclude this competitive win.
negotiation which builds on the long-standing relationship with this much-valued customer.
22 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REpORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Saeed AlGhamdi Quality manager, tornado from Joe murphy mBE Welding apprentice to expert trainer the Queens welder Working for the past 40 years Saeed AlGhamdi started as an apprentice 13 years ago and is now inBarrow-in-Furness, UK, Joe has partof a quality control taskforce servicing and maintaining Tornado helpedto produce highly complex aircraft in Saudi Arabia.
His proudest moment has been tore-design submarines for the Royal navy.
part of Tornados rudder, preventing damage to the part inservicing, Battling temperatures of up to resulting in cost and time savings which earned him a BAESystems 120 degrees in a confined space Chairmans Award.
Joe Murphy MBE passes on his skills, work ethic and tenacity to the next generation of welders being trained in the JoeMurphy Welding Centre ofExcellence.
On 5 February 2014, Tom Arseneault, formerly Balance sheet and capital allocation Responsible conduct Executive Vice president, product Sectors, The Groups balance sheet continues to be The way the Group undergoes its business was appointed as Chief Operating Officer for managed conservatively in line with our policy isequally as important as the delivery of BAESystems, Inc. and Dave Herr, formerly to retain an investment grade credit rating and theoutput and great emphasis continues to Executive Vice president, Service Sectors, for to ensure operating flexibility.
beplaced on business conduct throughout BAESystems, Inc. and Executive Committee the Group.
Consistent with this approach, the Group member, will retire from the Group on expects to continue to meet its pension The safety of our employees and those using 31March 2014. obligations, pursue organic investment our products is critical to our business, a key opportunities, pay dividends in line with its priority and a fundamental responsibility for In January 2014, Claire Divver joined the Group policy of long-term sustainable cover of the Group.
Regrettably, there were two from Xstrata plc as Group Communications around two times underlying earnings and work-related employee fatalities in 2013.
Director and a member of the Executive tomake accelerated returns of capital to Each accident is thoroughly investigated and Committee.
She replaced Charlotte lambkin shareholders when the balance sheet allows.
lessons learnt are applied across the Group.
who left the Group in September.
Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions We continue to drive safety improvements Summary and outlook will be considered where market conditions and achieved a17% reduction in the Budget pressures in some of the Groups are right and where they deliver on the Recordable Accident Rate, which represents larger markets are expected to prevail but Groups strategy.
the sixth consecutive year of improvement.
In February 2013, the Group initiated a Board and management Good progress has been made to grow the sharerepurchase programme of up to Sir Richard Olver stepped down as Chairman order backlog, providing a solid basis for 1bnover three years.
Implementation of of the Group in February 2014 and has been growth over the medium term.
The Groups theprogramme has been influenced by the succeeded by Sir Roger Carr.
Sir Richard has continued focus on cost and targeted timing of a satisfactory resolution of the been a tremendous supporter of our Company investment aims to enhance competitiveness Salam Typhoon price escalation negotiations.
and our industry over the last decade and has and affordability for the benefit of customers As at 19 February 2014, BAE Systems had led wide-ranging cultural and governance and sustain attractive returns for shareholders.
purchased 65 million shares for approximately changes within the Company.
He leaves with 271m under the programme.
our best wishes for the future.
I am delighted to welcome Sir Roger Carr Consistent with previous share buybacks, asChairman.
Sir Roger has two decades of theGroup has agreed with the trustees of Board-level experience leading international itsUK pension schemes to pay 340m of businesses and most recently was Chairman cash contributions into the schemes over the Ian King, Chief Executive of Centrica plc and president of the three-year period of a full implementation of Confederation of British Industry, the UKs the share repurchase programme.
He is also Inspired Work Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Our employees have a key role to play in the Director of the Court of the Bank of England success of our business.
Their contribution and a member of the UK prime Ministers isnever more important than when the Business Advisory Group.
Groupis facing significant market pressures.
BAESystems people have continued to rise to Jerry DeMuro took up his role as president and the challenge, demonstrating their commitment Chief Executive Officer of BAESystems, Inc. to meeting the needs of customers with from 1 February 2014.
Jerry joins the Group increasingly more cost-effective and innovative from General Dynamics and succeeded solutions.
There are many examples of our lindaHudson, who announced her intention to peoples inspired work highlighted across retire from the Company in August.
an executive director of BAE Systems plc and a member of BAE Systems Executive Committee.
