4 contract awards during the course of theyear.
CHIEf EXECUTIvES Our Infrastructure Investments division has had an excellent year.
Our strategy ofrecycling the capital invested in the rEpOrT portfolio has delivered a very favourable outcome during the year, and full-year In 2013, challenging economic conditions and, underlying profits before tax for the division were 132 million.
It is becoming wellflagged, operational issues in the UK led to clear that our investment division is core to connecting other areas of the business adisappointing financial performance.
We have and we will maximise this in the future.
takenfirm actions to address all these issues.
Last year, at our full-year results in March, I set out clear objectives for the year, aligned to our strategic objectives.
In the short term, these were to continue with our focus on cost efficiencies, dispose investment in major infrastructure projects ofour mainland European rail businesses in the UK has resulted in fewer major which are underperforming and nonprojects being brought to the market.
strategic and complete the strategic Whilst the UK economy is starting to pick review of our UK facilities management up and will start to have a positive impact business Balfour Beatty WorkPlace.
on parts of the construction market, we Wehave made significant progress on anticipate current conditions will continue allof these.
In July, we announced the sale of Read more online about Nick Pollard WorkPlace to GDF Suez Energy Services for 155 million in cash.
This sale The market in Australia has seen represents an important step in our significant deterioration, with a large evolution as we intensify our focus number of capital projects cancelled onthecreation and management of overthe last 18 months.
Our Australian We are committed to becoming infrastructure assets.
In addition to finding Professional Services business has seen a good new home for the business, its a leading international acorresponding deterioration in both clients and employees, this transaction volume and pricing through the year.
infrastructure company, acclaimed has achieved good value and will enable Inresponse, we have already taken strong for the quality of service that we us to allocate more resources to target and decisive steps to take cost out of the deliver to our clients.
We create growth in the future.
business: enabling a return to profitability, critical assets which support but we see the constrained market As part of our ongoing programme of conditions as being likely to continue mainland European rail disposals: in ourclients in providing services in2014.
March, we announced the sale of the to the communities which Spanish business, and in December the These issues have been partially offset by theyserve.
sale of the Scandinavian business to positive performance elsewhere.
With the Strukton Rail B. V. We are currently in As I have highlighted over the course exception of Australia, the Professional discussion with a number of potential ofthe year, market conditions in the Services business performed well, with buyers for the German business and have countries in which we operate have had a particular strength in US transportation, started preliminary discussions for the strong influence on our performance.
We Asia and the Middle East, where our focus Italian business.
In Germany trading have seen challenging markets in the UK on the transportation sector has proved hasbeen very poor which resulted in and Australia and some emerging markets beneficial with the award of various high anunderlying loss from operations have been tougher.
This combined with profile contracts during the year.
our own operational issues has led to poor order book increases in the US and the performance in those specific markets.
Middle East were offset by the impact Read more on p31 ofAustralia and minor movement in the In 2013, our leadership team has Our cost efficiency programmes remain UK business.
responded with decisive actions that have on track and we have made significant reduced the impact of these conditions In the US, we are seeing a quicker progress in this area this year.
During and stabilised the business for the future, return to growth than in the UK market.
2013, we centralised much of our whilst still remaining focused on our mid There are more private and complex common expenditure and low value UK to long term growth opportunities.
construction projects coming to the buying.
We made ongoing savings of market and our order book is looking 6million per year in the US by relocating At the end of April, we reported that healthy for the future.
For the first time in many support service staff from Parsons the UK construction business had been 2013, the US construction business was Brinckerhoffs New York headquarters to impacted by a 50 million profit shortfall.
In Asia, our Gammon Lancaster, Pennsylvania and we closed The UK construction business has JV continues to perform well and we are our UK defined benefit pension scheme stabilised in the second half as the seeing high volumes and a strong order tocurrent members.
management team, led by the newly book, particularly in HongKong.
appointed Construction Services UK CEO Read more on p16 NickPollard has focused on improving Support Services has demonstrated operational performance which was the resilience in the current economic primary cause.
As a result, we have seen environment and strengthened its position our Regional business strengthen through in the UK highways maintenance and the same period, but the current lack of power and gas markets with several key Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 5 near term focus processes, the lifecycle and technical It is not just my commitment but that As 2013 demonstrated, our Infrastructure expertise that we have built on years of ofthe whole team at Balfour Beatty.
Investments business was a key lever experience operating across the world, Despite the challenges that we have faced toconnecting our operating divisions.
together with the strength of our people, in 2013 the energy and drive of business When we work in this way we generate and of course the great relationships we leaders faced with difficult choices and incremental revenue across the Group have with our clients, to set us apart from the dedication of the whole Balfour Beatty and this is something we will absolutely the competition.
We will look to innovate family to serving our clients and focus on moving forward.
and target continuous improvement to commitments is inspirational.
make a difference to our projects.
It is As we head into 2014, we are seeing Effective infrastructure is the heart of inthese areas that I expect to place strong growth in some markets, for anycommunity and everyone at Balfour significant emphasis over the coming example the Middle East and Asia.
Creating leading local presence, there are some signs that our largest and growing in strength and capability to harnessing the knowledge we have of most mature markets, such as US building serve.
I therefore have no doubt that with theassets we create and manage and and parts of the UK, are returning to this team and the actions taken in 2013, combining our skills as investor and growth.
It is here that we will focus Ican look to the future with confidence.
developer are critical in enabling this.
ourefforts and maximise the benefits available from the cyclical recovery.
It is clear the near term will remain challenging and our focus must remain Over the next few years, as the strength onbeing poised to benefit from a return of the Group continues to grow, we will togrowth in our home markets.
However, focus on expanding our local presence in we continue to lead the market in creating our mature home markets and also look innovative solutions for complex projects Andrew Mcnaughton todevelop our next generation of home and I am committed to a highly disciplined Chief Executive markets such as Australia, Canada and approach to increasing the value of our the Middle East where, and when, market business and a continued review of the Read more about the Executive trends support our business model.
structure and capabilities of the Group leadership team online Read more on p12 asa whole.
our mid to long term growth plans I am equally applying this sense of My longer term goals for the Group, as discipline to our key processes.
In 2013, outlined in March 2013, are to leverage we set out the next phase of our road three key strengths: local presence, asset map to Zero Harm.
Despite this, as Steve knowledge and our skills as an investor Marshall has noted, five people tragically and developer.
lost their lives during the year.
No such loss is acceptable and I will remain As I look to the future, we will continue relentless in my drive across the whole tobuild on these differentiators.
We look organisation for the elimination of risk to the effectiveness and reliability of our topersonal harm.
OUr STraTEGIC OBjECTIvES Read more on p10 1 GrOWTH: GEOGrapHIC aNd SECTOr GrOWTH Read more on p12 2 dElIvEr GrEaTEr valUE TO ClIENTS: TO SUppOrT THEIr OBjECTIvES Read more on p15 3 IMprOvE OpEraTIONal pErfOrMaNCE aNd COST EffECTIvENESS Read more on p16 We have set a clear path to embed sustainability into everything we do by 2020.
We focus on our sustainability activities in three key areas: profitable 4 markets, healthy communities and environmental limits.
Throughout this Report find out more about these areas of focus wherever you see these icons.
com sustainability IN valUES aNd BEHavIOUr Read more on p19 Profitable Markets Healthy Communities Environmental Limits Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
