Chief Executives Review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive Our strategy is clear and focused.
The DELIVERING creative place-making strategy at Covent Garden has established the estate as a worldVALUE class retail and dining destination.
At Earls Court, a number of major planning and land THROUGH assembly milestones, including the receipt of outline planning consent for the Masterplan, PERFORMANCE have enabled us to drive further momentum as we progress this exciting scheme.
Capco performed strongly in 2013 as a result of the strategy to Covent Garden grow value at Covent Garden and create value at Earls Court.
The Covent Garden estate has performed strongly in 2013.
The Adjusted NAV per share grew 22.4 per cent to 249 pence per share, neighbourhood is now established as a vibrant and exciting driven by a total property return of 21.9 per cent.
Underlying district of central London and is receiving global recognition earnings were 1.0 pence per share in 2013. as a world-class retail destination.
The central London property market continues to perform strongly, The estate is valued at 1,156 million as at 31 December 2013, with a deep pool of investors and occupiers.
London continues to a like-for-like increase of 19.2 per cent during 2013.
The major thrive as a global city, bene ting the retail and residential sectors component of this increase is the strong growth in ERV, up on which Capco focuses.
11.0 per cent on a like-for-like basis to 58.0 million.
The ERV target has been revised to 75.0 million by December 2016.
The creative place-making strategy at Covent Garden has again enabled the estate to outperform other areas in central London.
Over the past four years, since Capco was established as an The Groups vision for Earls Court has led to the outline planning independent company, the valuation of Covent Garden has grown consent for a 10.1 million sq ft scheme, adding further momentum at an annual like-for-like rate of 12.3 per cent, and ERV has grown to the project.
Valuations The arrival of a number of luxury retail and restaurant brands, The Group bene ted from strong valuations across the business.
including Dior Beauty and Burberry Beauty Box, alongside Chanel The property portfolio is valued at 2.3 billion as at 31 December Beauty boutique, Ladure and Balthazar, has made Covent Garden 2013, an increase of 19.9 per cent like-for-like over the year.
the destination of choice in central London for both Londoners and visitors.
8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Market Value Market Value Market Dec-13 Dec-12 Value ERV Initial Equivalent 1,2 1 m m Change Change Yield Yield Covent Garden 1,156 952 19.2% 11.0% 3.3% 4.7% Earls Court Properties EC1 & EC2 453 336 24.0% 3 3 Lillie Square 153 104 31.1% 3 Empress State 265 110 19.9% Other 63 25 21.8% Venues 161 146 6.3% 4 Other 48 Total Property 2,251 1,721 19.9% 1 Like-for-Like 2 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and xed head leases.
3 Represents Capcos 50 per cent share.
4 GCP Capcos 50 per cent share, in 2013 a discontinued operation.
The value creation at Covent Garden has progressed negotiated the transfer of a number of shows to with the resolutions to grant planning consent for Olympia from Earls Court for 2015, including the the Kings Court and Carriage Hall schemes.
This will International Book Fair and Top Drawer.
have a major impact on the area, opening up a new Outlook pedestrian route between Long Acre and King Street, Capco remains well positioned to create signi cant and establishing new, high quality retail and restaurant further value for shareholders from its value growth space in and around Floral Street.
and value creation strategy at Covent Garden and Earls Earls Court Court.
The central London property market remains The receipt of outline planning consent for the Earls strong, and expectations for the economy are positive, Court Masterplan is a major success and is the although the impact of rising interest rates and the culmination of the initial strategy that commenced withdrawal of central bank liquidity will need to be when Capco acquired its first interest at Earls Court carefully monitored.
The capital structure remains in 2007. conservative with suffi cient levels of liquidity maintained to manage the increased activity across The valuation of Capcos interests at Earls Court, the Group.
represented by Earls Court Properties, has grown strongly in the year to 934 million.
EC1 & EC2, At Covent Garden, the focus will continue to be on principally the Groups interests in the Earls Court introducing new retail and restaurant brands across exhibition centres, has bene ted from the strong the estate, and implementing residential conversions London residential market and planning consent, where appropriate.
The Kings Court and Carriage increasing by 24.0 per cent to 453 million.
Hall schemes off er the potential to transform the north-western area of the estate and drive rental Lillie Square continues to progress towards a formal values.
We will continue to rede ne global luxury in sales and marketing launch.
The project team has London and cement the districts status as a thriving focused on creating a high quality product that will be dining destination.
competitive in the current marketplace.
The intention remains to commence construction of the scheme later At Earls Court, the detailed planning applications start this year.
the process of re-imagining the area and creating a new neighbourhood where Kensington, Chelsea and The remaining interest in the Empress State Building Fulham meet.
The team at Lillie Square is focusing on was acquired during 2013, giving Capco 100 per cent achieving a successful launch shortly.
ownership of this major offi ce building at the heart of the Earls Court area.
Proposals have been submitted for a conversion to residential use.
Venues The performance of Venues in 2013 re ects the continued uncertainty over the Earls Court venue.
The Olympia venue was rebranded Olympia London, Ian Hawksworth following Capcos signi cant investment over the Chief Executive past three years to prepare it for the full transition of 25 February 2014 the business to this venue.
The team has successfully www.
