06 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Chief executives review Anencouraging performance I am proud to say that 2013 We remain focused on executing our Employees has been a momentous year, in strategy for market leadership and profitable The dedication and hard work demonstrated whichwesuccessfully returned to growth across each of our divisions, creating by our employees is key to the success of thepublic market and delivered strong opportunities to provide more complementary Countrywide.
Developing the current teams financial results driven by our core service offerings across all target markets.
This and future employees is central to our strategy business and augmented by value will be underpinned by continued investment in for market leadership and profitable growth creating acquisitions.
those areas that support scalable and efficient across each of our divisions.
I am pleased to delivery of service to customers.
report that we have around 200 graduates, In addition, the early stages of the market apprentices and trainees throughout our Estate Having dealt with several years of professional recovery evident in 2013 have also provided Agency, Lettings, Surveying and Conveyancing indemnity claims and significant exceptional the platform for growth across our business.
As CEO I am always keen to hear how charges to the income statement, we are The recovery will also generate increased our employees feel about Countrywide.
With confident that we have passed the worst.
As we competition with new entrants to the market, that in mind we engaged an independent anticipated, the number of claims received but our management team remain focused consultancy to run our first confidential in 2013 fell significantly and average losses on delivering optimal results and innovating to employee engagement survey.
The results were in line with expectation.
Therefore, continue to ensure the business is dynamic have been analysed and my executive team barring any unexpected change in trends, and productive.
will be focused on addressing the key themes we believe that amounts previously provided Over the past six years, the management from the feedback.
are sufficient to meet our liabilities.
team has worked together through a sustained period of difficulty in the property market, Customers IT transformation to transform Countrywide into a leaner and Our customers are at the heart of the services We are now two thirds of the way through our more efficient organisation with a greater we provide and our focus on them ensures our IT transformation with a significant investment proportion of sustainable revenue.
The products and services both meet and exceed programme in new hardware and systems.
successful completion of the IPO in March their expectations.
I am delighted to announce We are working with our strategic partner, CGI, was testament to the fact that investors that we have retained key commercial contracts to complete the transformation and roll out in recognised this transformation.
Post IPO, and entered into two significant corporate 2014 giving the Group a robust infrastructure the significantly reduced capital gearing relationships.
Additionally, for the fifth year in a to recognise benefits from 2015 onwards.
provides a solid basis for further investment row our customers have voted for us to win the in strategic opportunities.
Strategic investment coveted Gold prize for Best Large Chain National Category, at the Estate & Letting Agent Growth continues with the acquisition of 28 Government backed initiatives announced in Awards ESTAs.
The ESTAs recognise and Lettings businesses in 2013 including Portfolio Q1 2013 have supported the recovery in the reward high standards of customer service Lettings, Avon Lettings, Knights of Bath and housing market.
The Help to Buy and Funding and are unique in being the only awards in the for Lending schemes have incentivised lenders industry to be based purely on the votes to increase the availability of higher loan to of vendors and buyers.
Our own customer value mortgages.
These initiatives have feedback surveys confirm that nine out of contributed to the increase in the number of ten Hamptons International customers would first time buyers and new build purchasers use us again and nine out of ten of our who are both seen as key drivers of the conveyancing customers would recommend housing market recovery.
However, we must Building a business in a rising market can not nor would we be complacent about often be as difficult as managing through our success.
We are reinforcing this focus a recession.
Maintaining cost control discipline on customer service being at the heart has to remain a focus as we seek to capitalise of our operations through our internal on volume growth.
While we removed a Hearts & Minds programme for Estate significant amount of cost over the past six Agency employees.
This programme years, some of those costs have returned, is a peer to peer initiative and the themes for example commissions, but we recognise for the programme include language, that headcount, together with marketing positive first responses and massive expenditure, will need to increase if we are to action for massive results.
maintain service levels and protect and develop market share in a sustainably rising market.
07 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 I am proud to say that 2013 has been a momentous year, in which we successfully returned tothe public market and delivered strong financial results as a plc.
In addition, the acquisition of Lambert Smith Hampton LSH gives us a The Groups strategy significant foothold in the commercial property market, driving more opportunities to our teams We aim to continue to help more people move home operating our core Land & New Homes, and intheUKthan any other business and will focus on Residential Development & Investment  share.
businesses as well as extending our relationship with key corporate partners.
We are committed to a targeted acquisition programme and already in 2014 we have invested 15.1 million in 6 businesses, including Building on our physical and Tucker Gardner Residential, Curtis and Bains online distribution capability and Preston Bennett Holdings.
1 in order to optimise market share and maximise profitability We are pleased to announce that we have while ensuring that our cost base remains flexible also spent 7 million acquiring our first rental property investment.
In comparison to other countries, investment by financial institutions in UK residential property has been relatively limited.
With market conditions improving and Providing our customers with the UK Government encouraging investment in market-leading products and services residential property, that situation is changing.
2 As the market leader in UK residential property designed to meet their expectations and optimising services, we believe Countrywide is uniquely profitability for the Group placed to play a major role in the growth of this developing sector through providing access to unparalleled market insight and a service platform to operate at scale across the UK.
We are currently exploring options to partner Recruiting, developing and retaining with institutional investors or a fund manager the most dynamic, talented and professional 3 to establish a large residential property people in the industry investment vehicle with a target size of 1 billion invested over the next five years.
We have committed 20 million of our own capital to the project to acquire a seed portfolio and a future pipeline of suitable, privately rented, residential assets.
Ensuring our people have access Award winning performance to a reliable, economic and scalable infrastructure enabling 4 We have had another year of award winning delivery of shared services to support all Group businesses performances with the Group and divisions winning 20 awards this year, which makes 152 awards won since 2008.
These fantastic achievements are testimony to the hard work and dedication of all our employees.
Grenville Turner Read more about our Chief executive officer strategy on p14 27 February 2014
