CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Delivering on our strategy Our lettings business, which benefits from a strong I am delighted to be able to base of recurring revenues, continues to provide quality earnings and a healthy balance to naturally report a strong start to Foxtons more cyclical property sales revenues.
In 2013, lettings life as a public company.
revenues grew by 5.2% and accounted for 47.7% of total Group revenues.
Overview of strategy Alexander Hall Associates Limited Alexander Hall, Our successful IPO in September 2013 leaves the the mortgage broking arm of Foxtons, benefited Group debt free with a clear strategy and a great team from the beginnings of what we expect to be an clearly focused on our overriding objective to deliver improving mortgage market, finishing the year with profitable growth by expanding our business model revenues up 42% on 2012, albeit from relatively low throughout the higher-value, higher-volume London absolute levels.
1 The Group achieved an operating cash conversion We have a successful track record of expansion of 83.1% in 2013 2012: 88.7%.
The Groups over the last 10 years.
I am confident that the new excellent performance has created cash balances local London markets we have identified for future sufficient to propose a final dividend payment of expansion offer a real opportunity for the Group to 1.70p per share and a special dividend payment of benefit from the operational leverage inherent within 3.74p per share a total payment of 15.4 million.
our centralised business model, which we have been As well as achieving solid financial results so far this evolving over the last decade.
year, Foxtons was proud to win many prestigious Review of the year awards for its service, training, website and marketing Group revenue grew 16.0% on 2012 while Adjusted programmes.
In October 2013, Foxtons was named as EBITDA improved by 29.6% to 49.6 million, reflecting Best Real Estate Agency in the UK at the International a high degree of profitability on incremental business.
These awards demonstrate the Overall, the Group delivered improved Adjusted dedication and commitment of our people day in, EBITDA margins of 35.7% 2012: 31.9%, despite the day out to deliver exceptional service to clients.
impact of the significant ongoing costs of expansion Looking ahead and the work involved in the IPO process.
Looking ahead, we remain positive about 2014.
The Groups newly opened branches during the year We have a clear strategy focused on the organic were delivered on time and to budget and are all expansion of our branch network, increasing our performing in line with expectations.
As they mature, market share and improving profitability as our larger we can expect the financial contribution they make network benefits from our centralised infrastructure to grow considerably.
We have a strong sales pipeline for the start of 2014, our Our organic expansion strategy together with newer branches opened over the past four years improving market share in our more mature branches are maturing well, and we are well on our way to helped drive excellent performance in our Foxtons opening a promising group of new branches in 2014. estate agency business.
Against more moderate Perhaps most importantly, I believe we have the increases in the property sales market, Foxtons hardest-working and most talented staff in the achieved growth of 22.5% in property sales volumes industry and are extremely well placed to maximise driven by its more mature branches and recently our growth opportunities.
We also sustained average property sales prices at circa 493k 2012: 475k demonstrating our continued focus on the highervolume, higher-value mid-market sector of the London property market.
The percentage growth in average revenue was less than the average for London due to our expansion out from the centre and a greater emphasis on New Homes.
Michael Brown Chief Executive Officer Note 1: Operating cash conversion is defined as the ratio of Adjusted operating cash to Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted operating cash is Adjusted EBITDA less the movement in working capital and net capital spend.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3
