Strategic Report The recovery has gathered momentum Chief in 2013 and, against this improving Executives backdrop, we achieved a number of Review important milestones across our business.
This has been illustrated byanother strong set of results.
it has been a very busy and successful our other major projects have year defined by three key areas of activity: progressed well in the period.
in May 2013, we started on site with works we have continued to unlock value to the first phase of the 450m bay across our 5,900 acre uK land bank Campus for Swansea university and this through remediation and planning: is now well on schedule for completion we have sought to maximise in September 2015. our longbridge prospects from our residential development in birmingham remains portfolio: and a regional success story with the completion of the first phase of the we have pursued opportunities town Centre in the summer and the arising from the london and South subsequent 150,000 sq ft pre-let East market.
to Marks & Spencer as the second i am very pleased to say that our phase anchor tenant, announced just decision to focus on these three areas after our year end.
Furthermore, good has culminated in an excellent set of progress has been made with the public results with a 56% increase in profit consultation process for the New Covent before all tax to 82.2m 2012: 52.8m.
Garden Market redevelopment at Nine Elms in london and we expect to submit the most significant transaction of a planning application during the first half the year was the sale of the Elephant of this year.
& Castle Shopping Centre which demonstrated clearly how our exposure overall, our wide and diverse pipeline of to the london and South East market commercial development opportunities has enabled us to capitalise on the located throughout the uK continues growing investor interest in this area.
to gather momentum, reflecting the having acquired the asset, through upturn in that market, and we have made our 50:50 KPi joint venture, for 29m excellent progress with our schemes in 2002, we added significant value across the country.
demonstrating our to the property during our ownership, ability to extract maximum value from whilst also benefitting from the income it our land bank and explore a variety of delivered, finally achieving an attractive new opportunities, we have recently sale price of 80m compared to 52.5m completed a five megawatt Solar Park book value at the start of the period.
at our baglan bay site in South Wales.
We expect to continue to explore energy-related opportunities across the land bank during the course of 2014.
Across the country, we have been busy preparing our land bank for development through remediation and achieving predominantly residential-led planning permissions.
housebuilder appetite for our land is increasing and we are experiencing good housing sales rates across all of our residential schemes, whether delivered in joint venture with Persimmon or through our own housebuilding brand, St. Modwen homes.
20 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 StRAtEGy oVERViEW take hold but a wholesale improvement buSiNESS outlooK in commercial property is still being Supported by our long-term approach our major projects at longbridge, restricted by an improving but to development, our adherence to a Swansea university and New Covent inconsistent level of tenant demand.
robust and proven business model has Garden Market, are all at varying stages delivered a track record of over 25 years Against this backdrop, our of development, with each having an of successful regeneration schemes.
comprehensive regeneration schemes active year to look forward to, which serve as positive catalysts for change should add value to the Group.
during the recession, we continued to and are encouraging renewed tenant add value to our 1.1bn land bank of the disposal of the Elephant & Castle demand.
our regeneration of the assets.
We achieved this by creating Shopping Centre makes way for Project longbridge site in birmingham is maximum value from our income ModEl to become our fourth major a good example.
here, we have producing properties through asset project.
this consists of the two former successfully created the centrepiece to management initiatives, whilst preparing RAF sites at uxbridge and Mill hill which this important project by building and sites for redevelopment through are now being developed into two new securing important retail tenants for remediation and securing planning communities, together comprising the new town Centre which opened in permissions.
in doing so, we laid down over 3,500 homes.
in doing so, we have boosted strong foundations for growth to take location and the residential-led nature the community significantly by creating immediate advantage of any market of each development, we are already jobs and restoring confidence in the local recovery, whilst underpinning our experiencing excellent returns and economy which is a key component business activities with a steady income expect this only to improve in line with of the successful delivery of new stream.
At the same time, we disposed of the buoyant london property market.
We have assets to which we could add no further recently submitted planning for the We expect to further capitalise on the value and reinvested the capital back into second phase of the town Centre which improving residential market place which the business.
includes a 150,000 sq ft full-offer store will remain a dominant force in our by taking this long-term view and relying pre-let to Marks & Spencer, further portfolio in terms of land and housing on our own efforts to create value, we testament to the attractive commercial sales.
We are already looking for new have remained resilient to challenging environment that we continue to opportunities both from within our own economic times and our efforts are create here.
land bank and more generally in the already being rewarded as momentum market place where we can identify Next year, there is a General Election in the residential market grows across opportunities at the right price to apply on the horizon.
Whether this benefits the uK and as the regional commercial our proven skills to create value.
development or not remains to be seen.
property market gradually starts Recent comments from politicians having spent the last five years preparing to improve.
accusing developers and landowners of our commercial land in readiness for this hoarding land are misleading.
it does not market to improve, we anticipate more MARKEt oVERViEW make commercial sense to sit on land opportunities to start coming through in there is a tangible increase in activity and do nothing with it, especially in areas 2014, enabling us to add to our pipeline in the residential market place, with where land values are not appreciating.
the recovery that started in 2012 St. Modwen is in the business of With a successful 2013 behind us, this on the back of rising consumer development and our uK land bank of year will be one of continued delivery, and housebuilder sentiment being over 5,900 acres is owned specifically adding value to our portfolio of assets further augmented by the success of with a view to developing it out to create and a renewed focus on business Government schemes such as help to homes and communities in which people areas where we can deliver realised buy.
Momentum continues to gather can live and work.
At any point in time we development profits.
We are not yet pace in london and the South East are either actively building, remediating completely free of the overhang of the with confidence now spreading into or pursuing planning permissions recession, and there is no room for the regions.
this improved outlook which allow us to transform this land complacency, but there is certainly a has already had a positive impact into thriving communities or business more positive outlook on the horizon and on our joint venture with Persimmon destinations that will encourage growth we are already well placed to capitalise which is now building and selling right across the country.
all eight schemes under the original Notwithstanding inconsistent tenant agreement todeliverover 2,300 homes.
demand in the regions, it is clear that Furthermore, our own housebuilding the uK property market is improving.
brand, St. Modwen homes, is performing We continue to be successful in securing very well in its second full year of planning permissions but it is taking operations: it has continued to expand much longer than it should do, which is during 2013 and is now operational on having a knock-on effect on delivery.
As the year has progressed, we have kept under close review the increased optimism in the commercial property market, driven predominantly by a strong increase in investor appetite.
the recovery is now visibly starting to See glossary.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21
