Berendsen plc Report and 10 Accounts 2013 Chief Executive Officers overview We are keeping our positive momentum.
In 2013 we made further progress against our strategic objectives, building on the initiatives we have put in place.
The results for the year reflect continued momentum.
Further excellent progress Progress implementing K Ke ey y p po oint ints s in in our strategic plan We are pleased to report a strong set t th hi is s s sec ect ti io on n: : of results for the year, which reflected This has been a year of building on the continued momentum towards momentum we built up in 2012 and Clearly managed business lines achieving our strategic objectives.
further capitalising on the benefits of the Our 2nd full year of operating under Reported revenue increased 7% business line structure.
The energy that our new structure is bringing benefits compared to the same period last year our change of management structure across the group.
with the underlying level up 3% for the has generated and the focus on delivery group.
In our core growth businesses cannot be underestimated.
We continue Increased focus on sales efficiency underlying revenue growth was 4%.
to see this reflected in the excellent Adjusted operating profit was up 12%, results we have posted.
5 years representing 7% on an underlying 2013 was a year of faltering economic Our sales pipeline is the basis.
The adjusted operating margin KPI progress, marked by some uncertainty in strongest for five years.
for the group increased 60 bps to 4 our markets.
As the year progressed we 15.1%.
Adjusted earnings per share for Investing in our people started to see the benefits of economic the group were up 18% to 59.8 pence improvement in our hotel businesses, from 50.7 pence last year and we are 2.24m especially the UK where we ended the increasing our full year dividend by 10%.
year with stronger volumes than we have KPI 6 We continued to deliver strong free seen for some time.
Overall, however, cash flow in line with our strategic itwas a year where growth was hard to ROIC continues to improve objectives.
Free cash flow increased come by and delivered largely through 11% to 139.4 million 125.1 million, a self-help.
I am particularly pleased to see 9.3% conversion of 137% of our adjusted profit 2 that we increased our organic growth Our ROIC continues to KPI after tax as a result of our continued rates for both our Core businesses and improve against our target.
focus on capital allocation and drive the group overall beyond what we forcapital efficiency.
Group key financial performance achieved in 2012. indicators are set out on: We also improved our key return on We have always been a company whose Pages 14-17 invested capital measure by 80bps foundation is operational excellence.
Ours is a leveraged model and the Moving towards double digit returns constant effort to manage our service remains a top strategic objective.
more effectively and efficiently is a hallmark of the company.
We can see again this year that we have improved Outlook our operating margins, once again We are pleased to have delivered hitting an all-time high for the company.
a strong set of results, as we make As we improve efficiency we also progress towards our strategic increase the available capacity within our objectives.
Our focus remains on the plants, managing further investment in many further opportunities to improve new capacity and increasing our return.
The board expects to While the growth agenda has been achieve another year of good progress key to our strategy, so has our ability to in 2014. deliver this profitably with excellent levels of cash generation.
Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 11 Making good progress We have already come a long way.
Recruiting the right people, The new Supply Chain and making policies, analysing current Procurement team will have contracts, implementing a contract a significant impact on the management tool and much more.
To meet our overall It is a continuous process.
strategic objectives, we will deliver measurable savings, and innovate with expanded market knowledge and leveraged buying power.
Claude Sada G roup Supply Chain and Procurement Director to drive the next phase of development One Berendsen Always moving forward in our procurement strategy.
It is clear As well as focusing on delivering our there are opportunities available from results we are determined to build on Significant savings further leveraging our scale in procuring already solid foundations to create from a central approach textiles, pooling our buying of indirect a sustainable model of industry In 2013, we have worked to re-organise our products and services, streamlining leadership.
We have continued to build Supply Chain and Procurement function, our supply chain and improving the focusing on both direct and indirect on the capabilities and potential of One management of supplier performance.
It is clear that we will benefit Berendsen, supporting the delivery from a more centrally coordinated approach As one of our first strategic actions in through focus that our business lines are and, we believe that a strong focus on our 2011, we changed the name of the group striving for with targeted investments 350 million addressable spend will deliver to Berendsen plc, continuing to trade considerable savings.
as Berendsen in Continental Europe but We have already made significant savings We have continued to invest in retaining the trading name of Sunlight in many parts of our business.
One example management capability, as you will read for the UK.
It is an expression of our One is procuring certain items directly from the on pages 44 to 48, with a particular supplier in Asia for Scandinavian Flat Linen.
Berendsen theme that management in By meticulously categorising the products focus on identifying those management the UK decided to change the trading needed, getting samples from different behaviours that are both the key to the name of our UK textile businesses from suppliers and testing their materials to get current strength of the group but will Sunlight to Berendsen in 2013. the right quality, we have saved 450K also shape our development in facing on one project alone for our benefit and A further milestone in the future challenges.
We seek to identify our customers.
implementation of our strategy has and develop the talent we have across been our move, in a very small way, into the group with tailored programmes to Russia where we will support an existing support their progress.
While international the number of management trainees expansion has not been a priority for us, we brought in this year and it has given the opportunities we see in existing been exciting to see their engagement markets, this will provide experience and and early contribution to ensuring we knowledge of operating in faster growth, capture the models of best practice that but more challenging markets beyond our business lines are implementing.
We have this year undertaken a comprehensive employee survey and it is clear from the results that our success The year ahead is built on the engagement of our 15,000 We prepare ourselves for another year employees day in, day out.
We do not yet see same time it gives us good information 450K the full benefits of economic recovery into where we can do better and we saved by procuring certain items and we remain focused to make sure we are committed to capitalising on the directly from the supplier in Asia are disciplined in identifying risks and valuable insights this provides.
capturing the opportunities ahead of us.
We recognise that the health and safety We do carry good momentum, of our employees is of paramount however, into 2014 from the actions importance.
We will continue to invest in we have taken since we moved to a this area, and I know that the Operational business line structure at the start of Risk Management Group will diligently 2012.
We recognise that there is still take forward the learnings from our independent external review of health opportunity to make progress by further leveraging the experience we have across and safety that is nearing completion.
This extends into all parts and In April, a new Director of Group 31% the key to our future success remains Procurement and Supply Chain joined us, cut in costs and improved those marginal improvements we make bringing a new breadth of experience to quality in container covers at local level that in aggregate make us for our German linen carts.
His primary objective will be stronger, smarter and fitter for the future.
