Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 9 Strategy and business model We have made significant progress intheturnaround of 3i and this is demonstrated by our strong results.
We are only one year into our three year strategic plan and there is plenty more that we are doing to drive performance and generate further shareholder value.
Simon Borrows Chief Executive Our strategic priorities Create a leaner Improve Re-focus Grow third-party Improve capital 5 1 2 3 4 organisation with consistency and re-shape AUM and income allocation, a cost base more and discipline the Private focusing on closely aligned of investment Equity business enhanced with its income processes shareholder andasset distributions and manage ment re-investment approach inour business For more on our strategy, please go to page 16 10 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review On 29 June 2012, following a strategic Strategic goal review of the business, I announced the and the 3i Value Build future strategy for 3i, the first step of 3is strategic goal is to be a leading international manager of which involved the launch of a major cost third-party and proprietary capital with three strong investment businesses delivering top quartile cash investment returns over reduction programme and restructuring thelonger term: of the business.
nn Focused mid-market Private Equity: We are only one year into our three year strategic plan and nn Class-leading Infrastructure: and Iampleased to report that we have made significant and rapid nn Growing Debt Management.
progress in the turnaround of 3i.
We have delivered against all of theimmediate priorities and targets for financial year 2013 that Each of these businesses has different drivers and return wesetout in our plan in June last year.
These actions are described characteristics.
Together, they provide an attractive balance inmore detail in the following pages.
We believe that the combination ofourasset management skills across these three complementary During this period of considerable change at 3i, and against platforms, together with our strong balance sheet and access abackdrop of difficult and volatile economic conditions, we have topermanent capital, represents a differentiated and attractive delivered a strong set of Group results for the year to 31 March 2013. valueproposition.
These results underline the substantial progress that we have alreadymade through implementing the first phase of our multi-year At 3is half-yearly results and strategy update in November last year, strategic plan.
Iset out the key phases of our plan to deliver this strategic goal byfinancial year 2016.
These are outlined on page 18.
We are focused on executing the next phase of our plan, and there isplenty more that we are doing to drive performance and generate We have executed successfully the first phase of this strategic plan further shareholder value.
the year of Restructuring, and we are already making strong progress towards delivering the full benefits of this in financial years 2014and 2015 the years of Transition and delivery.
The clear objective of this multi-year strategic plan is to improve business performance and maximise value for 3i, its shareholders and its fund investors we call this the 3i Value Build and itcomprises: nn Growing Private Equity investment portfolio earnings through the asset management improvement initiatives, and in turn, increasing the value of our portfolio: nn Realising investments at values representing good uplifts to book value and strong cash-on-cash multiples, thereby optimising value from the portfolio and enhancing its valuation rating: nn Generating a sustainable annual operating profit from our fund management activities through growth in third-party income combined with a right-sized cost base: nn Utilising our strong balance sheet and permanent capital to take advantage of further value-creating growth opportunities across our businesses: and nn Increasing shareholder distributions through our enhanced distribution policy which provides shareholders with a direct share of our realisation proceeds above the base annual dividend level.
Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11 It is in this context that we have set a more ambitious cost reduction Strategic priorities and target for financial year 2014.
We are now targeting cumulative annualised run-rate operating cost savings of 60 million by progressin FY2013 31March 2014, on a like-for-like basis with the opening run-rate In June last year, when I announced the future strategy for 3i, we set operating cost base of 185 million as at 31 March 2012.
This out our immediate priorities and targets for the business in the first represents a significant upwards revision by 33% from the original phase of our strategic plan.
Our progress against each of these cost reduction target of 45 million by 31 March 2014.
To realise priorities is described on the following pages.
theseadditional cost reductions, we expect to incur up to 7 million offurther implementation costs in financial year 2014.
Please see page 47 for further information.
Create a leaner organisation with a cost base more closely aligned with its income The overall objective is for the Groups annual cash income to cover My first priority was to create a fitter and more efficient 3i.
To help you measure our progress against InJune2012, we set out key targets for the reduction of operating this objective, we have introduced a new key performance indicator costs, including reducing staff and consolidating our international called Annual operating cash profit.
This is defined in more detail on network of offices.
The table below sets out these key targets page 48, but in summary it is the difference between our annual cash forfinancial year 2013 and our progress against each of them.
income cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash income from our investment portfolio and our annual operating expenses, We have significantly outperformed our 31 March 2013 cost reduction excluding restructuring costs.
In the past, 3i has operated at a material target through a combination of over-achievement against the deficit on this measure, and our target is to eliminate this deficit on previously identified operating cost savings as well as the arun-rate basis by 31 March 2014. identification of further areas of efficiency as we have been implementing the restructuring.
By 31 March 2013, we achieved annualised run-rate operating cost savings of 51 million, 28%ahead of our original target of 40 million.
To achieve these savings, we have incurred implementation costs including the costs of associated redundancies of 30 million in financial year 2013, consistent with the limit that we set ourselves when we launched therestructuring.
1 Key targets announced on 29 June 2012 Progress in FY2013 Reduce staff Headcount reduction of over 160 staff Net headcount reduction of 168 staff at by31March 2013.
31March 2013, before the Debt Management strategic acquisitions.
Represents a reduction of 39% of the Groups total headcount of 435 at 31March 2012.
Consolidate office Re-shape the international network with All of these office closures were completed network theclosure of offices in Barcelona, during FY2013.
Total number of offices Birmingham, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, reduced from 19to 13.
Milanand Shanghai, reducing the total Additional run-rate operating cost savings number of offices from19 to 13. achievedfrom reducing office space in London and New York.
Operating Targeted annualised run-rate operating Achieved annualised run-rate operating cost savings costsavings of 40m to be achieved by costsavings of 51m at 31 March 2013, 31March 2013.
These cost savings were set against This reduction represents 28% of the abase-line of annualised run-rateoperating base-line operating costs at 31March 2012. costs of 185m at 31March 2012.
Actual reported operating costs of170m, Given timing effects and implementation belowthe level in FY2012 of180m, and costs incurred, actual reported operating  costs and additional costs in FY2013 were expected to be at operating costsfrom the acquired Debt a similar level to FY2012.
1 As stated in 3is announcement on 29 June 2012, the headcount and operating cost reduction targets exclude the impact of certain corporate transactions whichwere completed subsequently and which relate to our Debt Management business.
These transactions are: i the acquisition of certain European CLO management contracts from Invesco completed in August 2012 : and ii the establishment of 3is Debt Management platform in the US through a transaction withFraser Sullivan completed in September 2012.
These transactions added 15 staff to the Groups headcount.
12 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review As part of bringing greater cost efficiency and focus across Management assessment: following a systematic assessment thebusiness, we have removed organisational complexity and ofkeymanagement of our Private Equity portfolio companies, we bureaucracy.
This has included rationalising the numerous existing have replaced a number of chairmen and chief executives, particularly committee structures, fide-layering the organisation and streamlining insituations where we have underperforming investments.
Shortly after I announced 3is future strategy in June 2012, same time, we have reviewed the portfolio company board appointees in order to drive the change programme effectively, I put in place a from our own investment teams to ensure that we have the right new leadership team, the Executive Committee, which is the principal people and allocation of resource.
day-to-day decision-making body in respect of managing the Group Performance monitoring dashboards: we have overhauled our see page 61. monthly portfolio reporting processes within Private Equity and All of these actions have led to a simpler organisational structure introduced new performance dashboards across our portfolio withshorter lines of communication, and this in turn is transforming companies.
These include key financial, operational and strategic the culture of 3i to be much more energised and dynamic.
This is metrics and commentary.
The Groups Investment Committee enabling faster and more consistent decision-making across the andPrivate Equity Partners now meet monthly to review these business in order to effect the changes that are necessary to deliver dashboards and to decide on actions and the appropriate allocation improved performance.
This initiative has transformed the way we manage ourPrivate Equity investment portfolio.
Exit planning: since March 2012, we have been working closely 2.
Improve consistency and discipline of investment withour Private Equity portfolio companies to develop clear and well processes and asset management approach constructed exit strategies for each of our investments.
These plans are reviewed and refined on an ongoing basis in response to, In June last year, I announced six asset management improvement forexample, market developments or unsolicited approaches.
initiatives, covering all aspects of 3is investment and asset Thisisall done in the context of maximising the value to 3is management processes within Private Equity.
In particular, these shareholders and fund investors of any realisation activity, as well initiatives were designed to ensure a highly selective and consistent asoptimising capital allocation and resource across our business.
approach to new investment, earlier identification of potential issues Thefruits of this effort have already been evidenced by recent with existing portfolio companies, and well constructed exit strategies realisations at attractive prices, including for example, Civica, Hyperion, that maximise value in realisation processes.
This programme of Mold-Masters, NORMA and Quintiles, and there are a number of other initiatives has been substantially implemented and is already making investments in exit processes that are well advanced.
I believe that further benefits will be seen in the performance of our Private Equity portfolio over time.
Examples Vintage control policy and capital allocation: last year, we ofthese initiatives include: implemented a new vintage control policy for the Groups own balance sheet investments.
This is designed to minimise the risk of overInvestment review process: we have streamlined our investment investing at the top of the private equity cycle in the future.
In addition review process, including rationalising the previously separate to monitoring investment and capital allocation within Private Equity, Investment Committee and Portfolio Committee structures, each we have extended this approach to the rest of the Group and have ofwhich considered investments at different points in their lifecycle.
combined it with our broader risk management framework which InJuly 2012, we moved to a new single Investment Committee which assesses and monitors other key risks for the Group.
This forms part considers the full spectrum of decisions from investment through of our refined risk management approach which is more closely todivestment.
The new process brings greater central control and linked to our new strategic objectives.
As a result, the Investment Committee is more involved befound on pages 50 to 55. inthe early stages of investment processes and has formal oversight of material changes and other value impacting events between investment and divestment, including refinancings and senior management changes.
Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 3.
Re-focus and re-shape the Private Equity business 4.
Grow third-party AUM and income As well as consolidating the international office network, we have Over time, 3i aims to generate more third-party income through the re-focused our Private Equity business on mid-market investing raising of further third-party funds under management.
Despite the insectors where we have real expertise, and in our core northern current tough fundraising environment, we have made good progress, European markets, North America and Brazil.
We have suspended growing third-party funds by 45% in financial year 2013.
Third-party new private equity investment in Asia and Spain, where the focus funds now represent 71% of our total assets under management, ofour investment teams is on managing intensively 3is compared with 60% a year ago.
Private Equity: we are investing through a combination of third-party During financial year 2013, we have made a number of important and proprietary capital.
realisations with aggregate proceeds to 3i of 575 million.
nn In March 2013, 3i announced it had completed its second Brazilian These include EUSA Pharma, Giraffe, HILITE, Mold-Masters and investment with the acquisition of leading Brazilian eyewear retailer, NORMA.
In aggregate, Private Equity realisations in financial year ticas Carol.
The 3i led consortium included institutional investors 2013have generated an uplift of 49% over opening book value and Neuberger Berman and Siguler Guff.
Many of these realisations were based onthedetailed exit plans that we put in place a year ago in order nn 3i has established framework arrangements with a number of tooptimise the value of those investments, and we will continue leading investors to invest alongside 3i in mid-market European toexecute our realisation plans in this way.
These arrangements include fees and carry payable to 3i.
We believe that these innovative Over the next two years, the focus of our investment teams arrangements with market-leading institutions demonstrate willcontinue to be on managing intensively the existing portfolio.
confidence in 3is investment capabilities as well as providing Wewill continue to drive performance improvement and valueaccess to additional investment capital.
building strategies and to seek realisations where conditions are right to maximise proceeds.
This will further demonstrate the quality Infrastructure: the European portfolio continued to perform well ofourasset management approach and the value of our Private andgenerate a strong level of portfolio income.
Equity portfolio, and is a key part of re-establishing our investment nn Infrastructure is a key contributor to the Groups annual cash track record.
income through both third-party fees and portfolio income.
At the same time, we are pursuing a highly selective and measured Inaddition, the value of the Groups 34% shareholding in approach to new investment.
We will only focus on sourcing 3iInfrastructure plc increased by 7.1% during financial year 2013. investment opportunities in the sectors and geographies where nn There is strong demand for infrastructure assets as investors seek webelieve that we have demonstrable competitive advantage.
yield, and we are seeing a number of interesting investment Whilethe level of new opportunities being reviewed by our investment opportunities in our core markets.
In addition, we are continuing teams has increased materially over the last year, our investment in toexplore opportunities to grow our existing infrastructure platform the last year has been low as we continue to see a wide gap between and product offering.
buyers and sellers price expectations.
Debt Management: we have almost doubled third-party AUM over thepast 12 months from 3.3 billion at 31 March 2012 to 6.4 billion at31March 2013. nn We have made significant progress in growing our Debt Management business through a number of initiatives, including through the strategic transaction last year with Fraser Sullivan toestablish 3is US debt management platform.
This transaction closed in September 2012, and in November 2012 we launched anew US$450 million CLO Jamestown I in the US, and then in February 2013, we refinanced an existing CLO in the US, upsizing itto US$500 million Jamestown II.
nn We continue to see a number of attractive opportunities for further growth and development of our Debt Management business through fund launches and bolt-on acquisitions.
Overall, this demonstrates good progress towards our strategic objective of growing profitably our third-party fund management activities and generating a sustainable annual operating profit.
Webelieve that over the medium term, this will create material additional value for our shareholders, over and above the value ofourproprietary investments.
14 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives review 5.
Improve capital allocation, focusing on enhanced Performance and results shareholder distributions and re-investment in Last year was another challenging year for our sector and for the our business broader financial services industry as we navigated difficult economic A key component of our new strategy is to change fundamentally conditions and a changing regulatory landscape.
On top of this, it was 3iscapital allocation approach so that over time the Group uses less also a year of considerable change at 3i as we implemented a major capital to pay operating costs, funding costs and debt repayments, restructuring plan.
We have stayed focused on our objectives and instead directs more capital towards shareholder distributions throughout all of this, and I am delighted to report that we have met and re-investment in our core investment businesses.
orexceeded all of the targets that we set ourselves for financial year 2013 and we have delivered a strong set of Group results.
As well as achieving a significant reduction in operating costs in financial year 2013, we have also substantially reduced our gross In the 12 months to 31 March 2013, total gross portfolio return for debtand funding costs.
Since 31 March 2012, gross debt has reduced theGroup was 546 million compared to a loss of 329 million from 1,623 million to 1,081 million as at 31March 2013 and to intheprevious year.
Each of our three business lines contributed 917 million by 30 April 2013, representing a total reduction of 44%.
tothisresult, delivering improved performances compared to last Therefore, 3i has met ahead ofschedule its target of reducing gross year.
Private Equity was the largest contributor with a gross portfolio debt to below 1 billion byJune 2013.
As a result, in financial year return of 518 million this year compared to a loss of 341 million 2014, we expect gross interest costs to be less than 60 million last year.
excluding the costs of any further early debt repayment, which During financial year 2013, we achieved a series of strong realisations is42% lower than the level infinancial year 2012 of 103 million.
within our Private Equity business.
This delivered total realised profits The Groups balance sheet is in a very strong position with low over the last valuation of 190 million, a significant increase compared gearingand high levels of liquidity.
As announced in May last year, to 22 million in financial year 2012, and representing an uplift of wehave strengthened the Groups distribution policy in order to give 49%on the opening portfolio value of those investments realised.
shareholders a direct share in the success of the Groups realisation Thisis anexcellent result and further evidence of the inherent value activities provided that gearing is less than 20% and gross debt is less ofour investment portfolio.
We have now satisfied these conditions, and we expect The Groups net portfolio return this year was 432 million compared to initiate additional shareholder distributions above the annual base to a loss of 425 million in financial year 2012.
Again, this represents dividend in respect of financial year 2014.
Specifically, for the a material improvement in performance compared to last year.
purposes of the distribution calculation in financial year 2014, we will Thisisdespite the fall in third-party fee income from Private Equity, include the proceeds of 222 million from the sale of Mold-Masters, reflecting the impact of the Growth Capital Fund and Eurofund V which were received in March 2013. coming to the end of their investment periods.
A further dimension of our improved capital allocation strategy relates The fall in fee income from Private Equity was partly off-set by the to the structure of our compensation arrangements.
In the past, significant progress we have made in reducing the Groups operating Ibelieve that annual compensation costs as a proportion of the cost base.
We significantly exceeded our cost reduction target for Groups income have been too high and have not represented an 31March 2013, and materially reduced the deficit between the Groups equitable split of returns between 3is shareholders and employees.
annual cash income and its annual operating costs.
As a result of the Itis also critical that compensation is not viewed just as a cost to the actions we have taken, we now expect that Group cash income will business, but it should also be seen as a key tool to deliver our cover operating costs by 31 March 2014 on a run-rate basis.
This is strategic objectives and drive performance.
Therefore, in July 2012, not just about cost cutting: it also requires us to grow cash income, we launched a Group-wide review of 3is compensation arrangements both from third-party funds under management as well as from with the following key objectives: ourinvestment portfolio, particularly in our Debt Management and nn Ensure a fair and transparent split of returns between 3is key Infrastructure businesses.
We have already made a good start in this stakeholders, including between shareholders and employees.
respect by growing total third-party AUM by 45% in financial year 2013 from 6.3billion to 9.2 billion.
This was largely driven by growth nn Closer alignment of our compensation arrangements with our inDebtManagement, including the strategic acquisition of Fraser keystrategic objectives.
However, cash investment levels were low in the period, nn Clearer link between shareholder returns and compensation, falling to 172 million in financial year 2013 from 464 million in including a greater proportion of compensation in 3i Group theprevious year.
This reflects a number of factors, not least the shares.
continued low levels of M&A activity in Europe as well as our highly selective approach to new investment in the current environment.
nn Greater differentiation between individuals based on their relative personal performance and contribution.
Following discussions with shareholders and employees, we designed new compensation arrangements to achieve these objectives, and we are now implementing them.
Further information is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15 During the period, NAV per share grew by 11.5% to 311 pence Outlook at31March 2013 after taking into account implementation costs anddividends in the period representing 5.8 pence and 8.1 pence While economic conditions continue to be challenging across pershare respectively.
In particular, strong growth was seen in the anumber of our key markets, we have made significant and rapid last three months of the financial year, with NAV per share growing progress in executing the first phase of our turnaround plan, and by8.7% from286 pence at 31 December 2012. thisis already delivering improved performance.
The actions we havetaken have put 3i in a strong position to withstand future In summary, these are strong results and show a marked economic headwinds and uncertainty, and importantly, to take improvement in performance compared to last year.
Between advantage of emerging opportunities.
Our strong balance sheet and 28 June 2012 the day before the announcement of 3is future strategy access to permanent capital represent a key competitive advantage.
and 28March 2013 the last trading day of financial year 2013, 3i delivered a total shareholder return of 67%.
This is top quartile With a clear strategy and strong management team, we look to the performance compared to the FTSE All-share index, which delivered future with confidence as we execute the next phase of our strategic an average total shareholder return of 22% over the same period.
Our objective is simple: it is to drive improved business performance and generate further shareholder value over the coming years.
Strategic objectives and It has been a busy and demanding period for everyone at 3i over prioritiesfor FY201415 thelast year with many changes and new initiatives.
Much of what wehave accomplished is down to their hard work and commitment We have made rapid progress in executing the restructuring plan and I would like to thank all of our employees for their dedication during financial year 2013, and we expect the full benefits of these andendurance through this challenging period for 3i.
actions to come through during the next phase of our strategic plan infinancial years 2014 and 2015 Transition and delivery.
In this next phase, our overall strategic objectives are: nn Cover operating costs with annual cash income.
nn Grow third-party income and generate a sustainable annual operating profit from our fund management activities.
nn Improve capital allocation strategy, focusing on enhanced shareholder distributions and re-investment in our core Simon Borrrows investment businesses.
Chief Executive To achieve these key objectives, our priorities and targets forfinancialyears 2014 and 2015 are set out on page 19.
The clear objective of all of these steps is to improve business performance and maximise value for the Group, our shareholders and our fund investors.
Our business model is evolving.
Historically, 3i was a private equity investor with returns dominated by realised gains from investment sales and unrealised portfolio value growth.
Our new strategy is moving the business towards being a more balanced combination ofPrivate Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management.
Together, these three investment platforms provide an attractive balance ofannual income and capital returns.
In particular, we believe that thecombination of our asset management skills across these three complementary platforms, together with our strong balance sheet and access to permanent capital, represents a differentiated and attractive value proposition for shareholders.
While the value of our proprietary investments is the principal driver ofour market value today, we believe that our fund management platform is capable of generating sustainable and growing annual profits over the medium term.
We believe that this model is capable ofgenerating significant additional shareholder value.
