stRAtegic RevieW ceo RevieW Additionally, we are investing in our product and brand.
We ARe seeing MoMentuM Build fRoM The Exchange appeals greatly to many consumers but does eARly success.
not fully address the mass market, due to perceived and real complexity.
In response, we made the creation of a Sportsbook BReon coRcoRAn, chief executive officeR product, which launched in February, our top product priority.
This simpler product enables us to attract those customers who have not yet understood or embraced the Exchange model.
We believe that the combination of the Exchange and Sportsbook is a powerful combination, allowing us to provide customers with a superior customer experience.
The Sportsbook is also enabling us to offer a wider range of bets to our existing customers by offering a solution to illiquid markets, especially in-play.
More compelling still is the prospect of combining our Sportsbook with the Exchange to create a unique offering by introducing Exchange-based features to our Sportsbook customers.
We are investing in the Betfair brand and are repositioning it to be more inclusive and relevant to a wider audience.
In the first six months in which marketing spend has been redirected towards the UK and Ireland, the number of unique customers in these countries increased by 18%.
Betfair has a reputation for innovation, rooted in breakthrough technology, and our brand messaging builds on this.
We undertook a thorough review of our cost base and identified a number of areas where the business could become leaner.
In the second half of the year we implemented changes that will At our Interim results we announced a plan to turnaround Betfairs save c. 30m in FY14, an increase over the originally targeted performance and I can report that the business has made excellent 20m.
We are taking pride in doing more with less.
Of this progress against that plan and that the Group is now in a far saving, we are intending to re-invest c. 10m in customer facing stronger position for higher quality and sustainable growth.
product and marketing initiatives to drive revenue growth.
Our balance sheet strength is a valuable source of competitive Overview of results advantage and we intend to use this to pursue a strategy of Revenue was broadly flat year on year at 387.0m and ahead targeted acquisitions to add further domestic scale, achieve of our previous guidance range 370m to 385m.
geographical expansion and close product gaps.
We believe Underlying EBITDA of 73.3m was also higher than our guidance investment opportunities exist to generate substantial returns 65m to 70m, driven primarily by the better revenue performance.
from our cash balance and we will maintain a disciplined approach to investment.
The impact of regulation in Greece, Germany, Cyprus and the withdrawal of the Exchange in Spain was a significant drag on revenues.
We have made substantial progress to date and this is testament This was mitigated through an increase in revenues from sustainable to the quality and hard work of our people, for which I thank them.
jurisdictions, helped by the successful launch of our Sportsbook.
The changes made to the business alongside our unique technology, customer value proposition, UK scale and strong balance sheet Betfair continues to be highly cash generative with underlying mean that the business is well placed to compete in this challenging free cash flow of 50.2m.
The Groups balance sheet was further industry in the long term.
I am very happy to be leading the business strengthened in the year through the sale of our non-strategic holding at this exciting time for Betfair and our industry.
In April we acquired certain assets of Blue Square for 5.0m cash to expedite the growth of our new Outlook Sportsbook.
The business remains debt free and had 168.1m of cash We believe that our new strategy will lead to an acceleration excluding ring-fenced client funds of 284.1m at 30 April 2013. of revenue growth in our key UK market and expect these revenues to grow in line with the market in the medium term.
Turnaround plan Achieving profitable scale in sustainable markets is the aim In markets with insufficient regulatory visibility, revenues of our plan.
To do this we have had to make significant changes are expected to decline in the near term following our decision to Betfairs strategy, management, structure and culture.
to cease marketing investment, although these revenues continue to be more resilient than expected.
In the longer The business is focused on growing regulated revenues: investing in its term, we see Italy and Spain as potentially attractive sources products and brand: becoming a leaner and more dynamic organisation: of growth following positive regulatory developments.
and making disciplined use of our balance sheet to accelerate growth.
We are focused on efforts to mitigate the impact of upcoming We have ceased direct acquisition marketing investment in UK gaming taxes and continue to believe that increasing our countries with insufficient regulatory visibility.
We therefore expect scale will aid margin expansion.
regulated jurisdictions to contribute an increasing proportion of future revenues.
Whilst reducing unregulated revenues has held back revenue growth in the near-term, it moves us towards a more Breon Corcoran sustainable future.
We are already seeing an increase in the quality Chief Executive Officer of revenues, with 75% of Q4 FY13 revenues coming from sustainable jurisdictions, up from 67% in Q4 FY12.
