08 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHief eXeCUtives statement oPerating Profit total resUlts $4 163m 2012 $6 636m bUsiness PerformanCe $7 616m 2012 $8 050m OUr STrATeGy In May 2013, I outlined BG Groups new strategy.
Iaddressed the longer-term outlook, detailing how we will build on ourcompetitive strengths and strong pipeline of new growth opportunities as a focusedE&P and LNG company.
There are six pillars to ourstrategy.
Chris FinlaysOn World-class actively manage Prioritise value exploration our portfolio to overproduction &unique reinvest in growth lnGbusiness Focused portfolio Focus on areas lean & agile of 10-15 high where we have organisation quality assets competitive advantage fUrtHer detail?
Our strategy presentation and accompanying transcript are available at www.
com strategy For a reconciliation between business performance andtotalresults, see note 1, page 98.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Chief Executives statement 09 eXeCUting oUr strategy some ofour base assets, led us to reduce our production outlook for 2014 and2015 relative to our earlier plans.
As a result of lower production BG Group must be a company that delivers on its commitments each volumes, strategic choices thatwe have made to invest in growth and every year.
in my statement to you last year, i acknowledged that assetsand enhanced maintenance insome of our base assets, we 2013 would be a critical year in which we needed to rebuild investor havealsoforecast higher E&P unit costs for 2014. trust through the delivery of clear operational milestones that would underpin confidence in our longer-term strategic objectives.
We must now focus our efforts towards delivering our plans for the future consistently and effectively.
safety Safety has always been my highest priority, and it will continue to be Things we need to do differently so.
Wehave improved in this area and outperformed our Group total When I set out our longer-term strategy in May, I mentioned that recordable case frequency TRCF target for 2013.
The major success weneeded to do some things differently.
Since then, the organisation hereis QGC, where the safety improvement hasbeen achieved during hasbeen simplified and consistent processes have been established aperiod of intense construction activity.
Onthe asset integrity side, across the Group.
During2013, a rigorous challenge and assurance wehad no material, uncontrolled hydrocarbon releases during the year.
process was initiated tovalidate the assumptions for theouter years Itis with great regret, however, that I must report that in December, ofthe Groups business plan, and I firmly believe that wehavea robust Emmanuel Juma, a contract maintenance supervisor in BG Tanzanias setofnumbers, not only for 2014, but also for 2015. facility in Mtwara, died in hospital followinga road traffic accident.
We recognise, however, that focus is still needed to achieve greater 2013 performance organisational efficiency.
We need to ensure a culture of delivery and In 2013, we delivered all 10 of our project milestones eight on time accountability, improve thecost and capital efficiency of our base assets, orearly, and two slightly late.
These included base asset projects and ensure a rigorous pre-sanction challenge and review for all projects.
beingbrought onstream in Bolivia, Thailand and the UK and planned maintenance shutdowns in Kazakhstan and the UK.
2014 priorities Our key deliverables this year will be to: We also made progress during the year inadvancing our major growth projects in Australia and Brazil.
Our QCLNG project remains on track for 1. commission QCLNG.
We remain on track to deliver first LNG in the first LNG in the fourth quarter of 2014, having delivered first gas onto fourth quarter of this year: Curtis Island in December.
In Brazil, the production performance from 2. grow Brazil volumes, which will mean more high-margin oil in our the Santos Basin wells continued toexceed expectations, and two portfolio mix: newFPSOs were brought onstream.
3. deliver our other key project milestones, details of which are set outon page 24: Total E&P production declined by some 4% relative to 2012 to 633 kboed, 4. continue our exploration programme and advance ournew LNG which was at the lower end of our guidance.
Production from our base supply options: and assets declined 6% to 569 kboed.
These reduced volumes were driven 5. continue to develop and execute portfolio management in line principally by reductions in the USA and Egypt which were offset partially withour strategy.
byproduction coming onstream from new developments.
These included Everest East and Jasmine in the UK, Bongkot in Thailand, and the new In 2014, BG Groups production volumes are expected to be 590-630 kboed.
phases atMargarita and Ita in Bolivia.
In Brazil, production also Brazil and Australia are expected todeliver strong year-on-year growth, increased, driven by FPSO 2 and FPSO 3, notwithstanding the delays but this will be offset bydeclines in base assets, particularly Egypt, toadditional well hook-ups resulting from poor weather.
ahead of Phase 9a coming onstream in the third quarter.
In 2015, we expect strong growth, with production set to increase to710-750 kboed.
Total operating profit in the LNG Shipping & Marketing business increased 3% to around $2.6 billion despite eight fewer cargoes Conclusion fromEgypt andfive fewer from Nigeria, following supply disruptions.
While the challenges in Egypt, theUSA and certain of our base assets have caused us to reduce our expectations for2014 and 2015, we continue to In Tanzania, we increased total gross recoverable resources by 50% from focus on delivering longer-term value.
The fundamentals of the strategy lastyear to around 15 tcf.
Our organic reserves replacement ratio on a SEC that I announced in May remain intact and I believe that we have the measurement was 115% on a one-year basis and 179% on a three-year basis.
people, andthe skillset, to deliver that strategy overthe coming years.
In managing our portfolio, we set agoalto release $5 billion of capital from Inparticular, thesuccessful delivery ofQCLNG and Brazil volumes will disposals in 2012 and2013 andhave delivered more than $8.5 billion.
strengthen significantly our growth profile, profitability and cash flow inthe medium term.
When combined with ourplans to reduce capital As theChairman hasmentioned, we face significant challenges in Egypt expenditure, weremain on track to befreecash flow positive in 2015. and in theUSA, as we highlighted during theyear andagain in January 2014.
This, combined with a deteriorating operational performance in Chris finlayson Chief exeCutive CommUniCating oUr strategy Our strategy is explained in the following sections: HoW HoW WHat oUr HoW oUr We Create We deliver strategy We Work PerformanCe valUe valUe delivers Page 10 Page 14 Page 16 Page 20 Page 22 Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary, page 147.
Guidance is provided at the Groups ReferenceConditions as shown on page 147.
