10 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Message from the Chief Executive In 2013 we made steady progress across all parts of the business.
This has been reflected in the increase in the NAV and share price.
The NAV and share price were the highest year-end levels we have reported.
The core of the Trust is the global equity portfolio, which equates to over 94% of net assets.
This produced a solid total return of 21.6%.
On the revenue account, we report a 9.1% increase in profit after tax, which has allowed us to increase the total dividend payment.
Our subsidiaries, Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments, have continued to develop.
Alliance Trust Savings now has 5.4bn of Assets under Administration and it has gained market share as our distinctive flat-fee structure has appealed to IFAs and a number of private investors who are taking control of their portfolios in the wake of the Retail Distribution Review.
Alliance Trust Investments completed the integration of the Aviva sustainable and responsible investment funds and rebranded them as Alliance Trust Sustainable Future funds.
We have gone on to win new institutional investors and our first segregated mandate.
In addition, nine of the 11 funds were rated above median over the year, and eight of the nine with a three year track record, have similarly outperformed their peers.
In addition to our strong financial results we have been recognised for the quality of our products and the services we provide.
We have won many awards for our performance, customer service, transparency, products and services.
Investing for Generations is more than a marketing slogan.
It encapsulates our 125 year track record of creating value for shareholders and our commitment for the future.
We also use Investing for Generations to describe our sustainability strategy, which covers not only our investment philosophy but also other ways in which we have an impact on our shareholders, customers and employees and the wider community.
You can read more about this on page 21. it is only through Katherine Garrett-Cox adherence to our values and by delivering a sustainable business for our shareholders that we can continue to rebuild trust in our sector
