Chief Executives review In 2013 we delivered an excellent return for shareholders, benefiting from the strength of our core underwriting businesses and continuing investment in broadening the scope of our portfolio.
We are focused on ensuring that we optimise Amlins market position to take advantage of the opportunities offered by changing market dynamics, particularly in reinsurance.
10 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The year at a glance In 2013, Amlin achieved a strong financial In 2013, Amlin achieved a strong financial performance, with a solid underwriting result performance, with a solid underwriting result and an outstanding investment return in difficult markets.
At 19.8%, our return on and an outstanding investment return in equity ROE far exceeded our cross-cycle difficult markets.
At 19.8%, our return on target of at least 15%.
Our ten year weighted average ROE of 18.0% places us amongst the equity far exceeded our cross-cycle target top performers in the industry globally.
Amlin Europes continued progress was particularly pleasing.
The business achieved a combined ratio of 95% for the year, while in May 2013 Fitch Ratings recognised its significantly grown its assets under profitably at a rate that maintains our improving risk profile, upgrading its rating management in 2013 by 437.7 million to relevance to clients and brokers.
The complementary strengths To achieve these goals, in 2013, we Overcoming trading challenges of Leadenhall and our traditional reinsurance undertook a thorough review of Amlins The year was relatively benign in terms of strategy and objectives.
underwriting have enabled us to provide a major catastrophes although there was a high unique client proposition.
We can now offer As a result of this review, our Vision to frequency of smaller events, particularly in key clients substantially more capacity in become the reference point for quality Europe.
However, rapid change in some of catastrophe reinsurance and other classes, remains.
However, we have identified a our key markets brought fresh challenges, such as terrorism insurance.
number of priorities to help enhance organic in particular, alternative or convergence Amlin is also a major underwriter of marine growth in both developed and developing capital continued to flow into the reinsurance markets.
In particular, we will invest in more insurance.
The marine and aviation practice market.
This capital is sourced from pension effective marketing, focused on achieving wrote gross written premium of 504.6 million funds and institutional investors, attracted client intimacy.
for the 2013 underwriting year with Amlin by relatively uncorrelated risk at good rates leading more than 40% of its London of return.
Achieving intimacy with clients will be at the marine portfolio.
heart of our approach and differentiate us The major global brokers increasingly from our competitors.
We will achieve it by Diversifying distribution has been a key consolidated capacity by channelling building on our world-class customer service strategy for some years.
In this time, we have premium to fewer, larger carriers through and expertise, underpinned by operational focused on building relationships with a wide placement platforms and exclusive excellence.
Our peoples skills will also be range of brokers.
So while we have close agreements with selected insurers.
We will continue investing in our strategic relationships with the big three was particularly evident in the London people by proactively managing talent and global brokers, others account for over 70% subscription market.
performance, while creating an environment of our insurance book.
Equally important, the At Amlin, we are well placed to keep meeting in which we can deploy peoples skills more largest broker is different for each of our these challenges, thanks to our strong effectively across the Group.
We are currently insurance businesses.
franchise and lead market position.
We have reviewing our organisational design and As leader of more than 50% of our London a particularly robust position in reinsurance.
employee incentive arrangements to increase market insurance business, we are in a strong Amlin is a preferred counterparty for all three their alignment with our strategy.
position to benefit from the consolidating global reinsurance brokers, and has a lead We will continue developing the synergies subscription market.
We have built long-term position on more than 50% of our Londonbetween Leadenhall Capital Partners and our client relationships on excellent service market business.
Amlin Re Europe, which was reinsurance business.
We currently have a standards and financial strength, which are established in 2010, has further broadened 40% partnership share and we expect to reflected in high Group retention ratios, the scope of our reinsurance offering in increase this, either partly or fully, during averaging 86% over the past five years.
In the longer term, our strategic goal for increasingly becoming a two-tier market Setting out our strategy Leadenhall is to be one of the top three global and Amlin is benefiting from its position in While Amlin is in a strong current position, we fund managers in insurance-linked securities.
continue to focus on ensuring our long-term Over time, we expect that Leadenhalls With Leadenhall Capital Partners, we have sustainability.
We recognise that when growth, and its ability to supplement Amlins a valuable and growing foothold in the choosing counterparties, clients increasingly reinsurance capacity, will help us grow our convergence capital space.
Leadenhall has seek the comfort of size.
So we must grow share of the global reinsurance market.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 11 Chief Executives review continued Management structure The Group Management Committee represents a wealth of industry experience and expertise across a range of specialist underwriting and management disciplines.
Group Management Committee Underwriting Investment Corporate Centre Group Executive Review Board Management Executive Operations Committee Risk Committee Executive Committees Five principal management committees conduct executive oversight.
Group Management Committee Corporate Centre Operations Committee The Group Management Committee focuses on strategy and The Corporate Centre Operations Committee, keeps under review the performance, and receives updates on key matters from the work functional capability and effectiveness of all parts of the Group in line of the other main committees.
with Amlins operational policies and standards: it proposes and oversees operational priorities and major change programmes: and Members oversees IT strategy.
Charles Philipps Chairman Mark Farrow Philippe Regazzoni Members Kevin Allchorne Richard Hextall Andrew Springett Richard Hextall Chairman Mark Ferguson Steve McMurray Simon Beale Kim Hvirgel Jayne Styles Steve Bardell Elizabeth Graham David Melvin Brian Carpenter James Illingworth Rob Wyatt Adrian Britten James Illingworth Piyush Patel Underwriting Review Board Jean-Bernard Crozet Herman Kreulen Peter Tavner The Underwriting Review Board focuses on underwriting strategy as Mark Farrow Gregoire Mauchamp proposed by the Practice Boards: new underwriting initiatives: areas of concern or underperformance: plans and progress for addressing such Group Executive Risk Committee areas, and adoption of Amlins underwriting standards and practices The Group Executive Risk Committee oversees the development of the across the Group.
Groups risk management framework, reviews the status of risks against tolerances which have been agreed by the Board, and considers the Members adequacy of actions being taken to control and mitigate key risks.
It also Charles Philipps Chairman Brian Carpenter James Illingworth reviews the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment before it is presented to Simon Beale Richard Hextall the Risk and Solvency Committee.
Investment Management Executive Members The Investment Management Executive sets the strategic asset Charles Philipps Chairman Richard Hextall Fraser White allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges for Amlins investment Simon Beale James Illingworth portfolios.
It monitors investment performance and levels of investment risk.
The Investment Advisory Panel, comprising the Chief Investment Officer and three external experts, assists Group Investments in its decision-making and recommendations to the boards.
Members Jayne Styles Chairman Richard Hextall Charles Philipps 12 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Selective acquisitions remain an important 336.3 million and the business has Progressing through our people aspect of our strategy.
In 2013, we bought consistently outperformed its UK peers on its In 2013, we progressed a range of strategic RaetsMarine, one of the worlds leading cross-cycle combined ratio and risk-adjusted initiatives regarding our people.
These are providers of fixed premium P&I liability return on capital.
He has built a team in Amlin summarised on pages 16 to 17 and described insurance, to further enhance our global UK which is capable of continuing its success.
in more detail in the relevant section of the marine offering.
I am grateful to Brian for his invaluable Strategic Report on pages 38 to 39. contribution to developing Amlin UK and the Our ability to execute acquisitions has been The quality and commitment of our people Group.
I wish him well in his retirement.
enhanced through the development of the drives our continued success.
I am grateful Group Underwriting function and integration for their unstinting enthusiasm and hard work Looking forward to 2014 management resource.
through a period of considerable change and We are experiencing rapid change in some of development.
It is particularly pleasing to see our key markets, notably reinsurance.
This We also reviewed the Amlin brand and how excellent cooperation across geographies and presents challenges, but also opportunities.
Our we present ourselves to clients and other divisions within the Practice Boards and other business model is robust and adaptable and I stakeholders.
To align our brand with Amlins cross-discipline working groups.
believe our strategy will ensure we grasp these core values and future strategy, we have opportunities and strengthen our franchise.
adopted Continuity as our central promise to Brian Carpenter, Underwriting Director of customers, brokers, investors and employees.
Amlin UK, has decided to retire during 2014.
While positioning Amlin for long-term profitable We have expressed the new proposition in Under his leadership, Amlin UKs gross growth, we will maintain underwriting discipline our Annual Reports theme and design.
written premium has more than doubled to across the insurance cycle.
A number of our businesses are experiencing improving trends.
We have also made some material changes to our outwards reinsurance programmes, reducing spend whilst increasing mean expected profitability.
This is expected to Developing our presence in Asia compensate for the lower margins in We recognise that in order to achieve our strategic goal of measured expansion, we must catastrophe reinsurance.
access developing markets, where enormous economic growth and investment in Therefore, even though reinsurance rates infrastructure are creating demand for insurance and reinsurance.
A growing proportion have come under downward pressure, of the business which would previously have come to London from these developing we continue to believe that the Group markets is being underwritten locally, as they build their own capital and expertise.
This is can continue to deliver attractive returns particularly evident in Singapore, which is becoming a significant regional insurance hub.
In 2007, we formed Amlin Singapore to underwrite local marine energy, hull and cargo business on behalf of Syndicate 2001 as part of the Lloyds Asia platform, initially using underwriting expertise from Amlin London.
The marine portfolio has developed well and in 2013 Amlin Singapore and RaetsMarine further enhanced its scope with the launch of a fixed premium P&I product for more information on RaetsMarine see page 30.
In addition, Amlin Singapore underwrites aviation, property, general liability business and leads a specialist terrorism and sabotage consortium and an aerospace consortium Charles Philipps Xin Consortium and Xin Aerospace Consortium.
In 2013, Amlin Singapores gross written Chief Executive premium was 10.2 million 2012: 8.6 million.
The strength of our reinsurance franchise is a major strategic asset, which we have successfully leveraged to develop our Bermudian business and which has provided a strong foundation for the successful start-up of Amlin Re Europe.
Amlin already has valued and long-standing reinsurance relationships with clients in Asia, particularly in Japan, and we believe that there is scope to further develop our reinsurance franchise in Asia.
In 2012, we recruited a dedicated reinsurance underwriter to underwrite business via Singapore.
This initiative has already generated significant new premium for Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda, in the region of 14 million at the end of 2013.
As well as new local clients in countries such as China, Taiwan, Indonesia, South Korea and the Philippines, we have also been offered opportunities to underwrite additional business on regional reinsurance programmes for major European or Australasian clients.
During 2013, we developed a five year regional business plan to further develop the reinsurance portfolio on a selective basis.
This will be supported by marketing initiatives and investment in further dedicated staff in London and Singapore.
At the start of 2014, the portfolio was showing further growth, reflecting both the development of core client relationships and new business opportunities.
