Chief Executive Officers report OVER TWO DECADES OF EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT EXPERIENCE Emerging Markets GDP will be the driving force of global economic growth over the next 30 years.
Ashmore is positioned at the heart of this growth The results for the year ended 30 June 2013 concerns over a reduction in quantitative easing QE illustrate the substantial progress made in building a in the United States.
Local currency assets were more diversified business, with strong performance particularly affected in the sell-off, as technical across the Group, record subscriptions following factors, such as the presence of leveraged and a period of investment in distribution, and an speculative positions that were particularly sensitive operational platform that is capable of processing to the Federal Reserves tapering message in and managing far higher levels of AuM.
The May, outweighed the largely benign fundamental experience of over two decades of investing solely backdrop.
This served as a reminder that Emerging in Emerging Markets, across equities, fixed income Markets still comprise a broad spread of relatively and alternatives, is invaluable in assessing the risks inefficient asset classes, where misconceptions and opportunities inevitably presented by a period abound.
However, historically such a divergence of market turbulence such as we witnessed towards between market movements and underlying the end of the financial year.
During this period, fundamentals has provided good opportunities Ashmore continued to outperform and to achieve for Ashmores value-based investment approach.
For the Group overall, the percentage of AuM outperforming benchmarks at 30 June 2013 was very AuM development good, at 92% over three years 30 June 2012: 86% Assets under management increased 22% from and 96% over one year 30 June 2012: 23%.
It is US$63.7 billion to US$77.4 billion during the year, particularly pleasing to note the improvement in the with average AuM rising 13%, principally the result of equities theme, with 39% of AuM outperforming strong net inflows of US$13.4 billion.
Good investment over three years 30 June 2012: 21% and 87% performance over most of the year was offset by over one year 30 June 2012: 22% as the specialist pronounced market weakness in late May and June.
funds have continued to perform and the actions Record gross subscriptions of US$27.2 billion implemented to refine the Broad Global Active FY2011 12: US$13.0 billion were primarily into investment process have delivered.
the debt themes, and particularly local currency The recent volatile market environment highlights and corporate debt where the investment universe once again the benefits of being a specialist active and potential investment returns are both attractive.
manager in Emerging Markets, and the investment Demand for blended debt is also strong, as it returns described above demonstrate the benefits represents a natural first step for an Emerging of bringing to bear over two decades of investment Markets allocation as well as satisfying the experience for the Groups clients.
increasing trend for clients to specify bespoke benchmarks against which to measure investment Financial performance performance.
Pleasingly, the Groups equities Revenue theme achieved gross subscriptions in each Net revenue for the year of 355.5 million was of the four quarters during the year.
7% higher than in the prior year.
This resulted from Gross redemptions increased in absolute terms a 4% increase in management fee income net to US$13.8 billion FY2011 12: US$11.7 billion but of distribution costs to 311.2 million, driven by at 19% of average AuM FY2011 12: 18% remained an increase in average AuM levels offset by a at a reasonable level and low by industry standards.
reduction of average net management fee margins by 6bps to 68bps.
Investment performance Investment performance contributed US$0.3 billion: The margin reduction was primarily the result however, this masks good performance for the of theme and client mix effects, together with majority of the year negated by the sharp market notable success in winning relatively large mandates, declines in the fourth quarter, catalysed primarily by particularly in the local currency theme, which 6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements naturally attract a lower revenue margin.
Specifically, Strategic progress among the local currency mandate wins during Distribution the period was a number of segregated accounts In previous periods we have invested to expand the over US$500 million in size.
These funds earn Groups product range and to support rapid growth an appropriate management fee margin and are in distribution headcount.
This year we demonstrated efficient to manage.
Some competition is also success from this investment through stronger evident, although its nature and intensity varies gross and net subscriptions.
by theme, and in the context of an asset class Gross subscriptions of US$27.2 billion represent that is growing rapidly and where many investors, a record for the Group and were sourced from a particularly those in the developed world, are diversified range of clients, both existing and new, profoundly underweight, the presence of other and were invested efficiently in a range of fixed Emerging Markets advocates is welcome.
The nature of our largely Performance fees increased to 33.4 million institutional business is that the pattern of client flows FY2011 12: 25.4 million, with the second half can be irregular, but the flows generated during the contribution slightly stronger than expected due period are testament to the relationships established to continued market strength in the third quarter.
and developed by an enhanced distribution team, Performance fees represented 9% of net revenues some of which can take many months, if not years, for the period, broadly in line with the prior year to come to fruition.
Many of our clients are making FY2011 12: 8%.
Cost structure Ashmore keeps a firm control over its cost base, while continuing to invest appropriately, including in the expansion of the international office network.
The structure of staff costs is a defining characteristic Capital Markets Day of the Groups business model, with a relatively low In April, the Group held a capital markets cap on basic salaries across the Group and a strong event to enhance understanding of our View the bias to performance-related variable compensation.
strategy, the business, and the drivers of presentation of our The latter element places an emphasis on long-term its future growth, as well as to introduce Capital Markets day equity ownership.
In the year to 30 June 2013, members of the investment, research and on our website variable compensation as a percentage of earnings distribution teams to investors and ashmoregroup.
com before variable compensation, interest and tax analysts.
The presentations were positively VC EBVCIT was 20% FY2011 12: 18%.
received and we will continue to pursue similar opportunities to further the Profitability understanding among stakeholders of Operating profit for the year was 232.0 million Emerging Markets and our business.
EBITDA, defined as operating profit excluding depreciation and amortisation, for the year was Mapping the Main Fixed Income Investment Themes 252.2 million FY2011 12: 236.2 million.
The EBITDA margin of 71% for the year was unchanged Yield 10% FY2011 12: 71% and, consistent with the view expressed in previous years, our expectation is Corporate EM Local Debt Currency Government Bond Yields that the Groups margin will move into the 60s 6% overtime.
Local Currency Bonds External Debt Sovereign Emerging Net finance income increased from 18.1 million Markets FX to 25.7 million.
As in the prior year, it includes 3% US T reasury curve several items relating to acquisition of AshmoreEMM, now operating under the Ashmore brand, and seed 0% Duration capital, on which more detail is provided in the 3 Months 10 Years 5 Years Business review.
EM Local Currency assets USD-denominated assets Profit before tax for the year increased 6% to 257.6 million FY2011 12: 243.2 million.
Earnings per share for the year were 29.98p FY2011 12: 26.82p.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Chief Executive Officers report continued long-term allocations to the Emerging Markets asset market, and in support of this ambition the Group class, providing us with high-quality resilient assets has committed seed capital to the three funds.
to manage, and therefore we experienced relatively In China, we acquired the maximum permitted 49% limited impact from the market weakness at the end stake in a Shanghai-based fund management joint of the year.
Understandably in our view, some clients venture with Central China Securities Co. CCSC, saw this re-pricing of assets as an investment and we launched two equity-related funds towards opportunity and increased allocations accordingly.
To target particularly the third-party intermediary Today we manage approximately US$1 billion business, the Group established and expanded in our local Emerging Markets businesses and we a range of open-ended fund conduits in late 2010 aim to grow this substantially in the coming years, and through 2011, in the US and Europe, which over as previously high barriers to entry are broken down the course of the next financial year will establish and the merits of allocating to an independent three-year investment performance track records.
manager with a strong investment pedigree become This is of particular relevance to the US 40-Act increasingly apparent.
The Group has an ongoing mutual funds, which rely heavily on this factor to focus to develop the scale of existing domestic stimulate demand.
Nonetheless, with a relatively businesses and also envisages supplementing small and focused distribution team, we are pleased this growth with opportunities in further markets to have raised AuM of nearly US$1 billion in the US overtime.
We plan to modestly and steadily increase the headcount in our Seed capital intermediary distribution teams to support growth The ability to seed funds is an important competitive in the 40-Act and SICAV funds as they reach their advantage for Ashmore, as it supports both entry into three-year milestones.
new markets and the development of new product structures and distribution channels, such as the The distribution teams headcount at the end of US 40-Act funds, and can be considered to underpin the period was 45 30 June 2012: 41 and while we future AuM growth.
During the second half of the will invest further in distribution on a selective basis, year the Group committed seed capital to support headcount increases in the foreseeable future are the launch of three funds in Indonesia.
Other seed unlikely to be as marked as in previous periods.
The capital investments made during the period enabled Groups distribution priority is to continue to deliver the launch of investment grade blended debt funds diversified, profitable AuM growth onto its scalable as well as providing greater scale to enhance the operating platform.
distribution potential of several equity funds on the Local asset management SICAV platform.
The third phase of the Groups strategy seeks The seed capital programme is actively managed, to benefit from the rapidly growing pools of has inherent value with funds recycled back into investment capital within Emerging Markets, which cash when appropriate, and is subject to strict are growing at rates far in excess of the equivalent, monitoring by the Board within a framework of set though today larger, pools of capital in the developed limits.
Its scale has grown materially, nearly tripling world.
The traditional investor preference for from 61.0 million invested three years ago to deposit-based products, typically manufactured 170.6 million at 30 June 2013: during the financial and distributed by banks, is being challenged as real year, 149.0 million was invested in 15 different interest rates have declined and regulators scrutinise funds and 129.9 million was recycled from the services provided by the incumbents.
There investments previously made in a similar number is a clear opportunity for independent managers of funds.
While not its primary purpose, the active such as Ashmore to offer credible and attractive management of seed capital has generated profits investment opportunities to domestic Emerging for shareholders.
The accounting treatment for seed Markets investors.
capital is explained fully in the notes to the accounts, During the year we established businesses in but for clarity the aggregate income statement Indonesia and China.
The subsidiary operation in contribution from seed capital-related activity was Jakarta, Indonesia was established in July 2012 and 17.2 million FY2011 12: 1.7 million.
launched three funds in the second half of the financial People and culture year: two equity funds all-cap and small-cap and a fixed income fund.
The Groups strategy is to combine The Groups headcount has increased to 291 at the local talent with Ashmores global asset management end of the year 30 June 2012: 257 reflecting further expertise: this approach will enable us to grow a investment in support functions and the Groups local leading business in the Indonesian asset management fund management businesses.
8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements The commitment, expertise and motivation of Yet inefficiencies, misconceptions and prejudices colleagues across the Group were manifest in still abound.
Developments in one country or region the ability to source, invest and control the strong are often extrapolated across the Emerging Markets asset flows that Ashmore generated during the year.
The price volatility induced by these I should like to thank everyone for their tremendous myopic swings in sentiment should not be mistaken effort over the past year, and I am confident that for higher risk: economic fundamentals ultimately as a team we will continue to deliver for our clients reassert themselves.
Emerging Markets are not and shareholders during the current financial year homogeneous, and the presence of idiosyncratic andbeyond.
risks and rewards across more than 65 countries provides tremendous opportunities for a specialist, Outlook active investment manager.
The fundamental Emerging Markets story Dedicated long-term investors recognise these remains strong and resilient, and is represented characteristics of the Emerging Markets asset class, by the established and powerful GDP per capita and can take advantage of the asset re-pricing that convergence trend.
While Emerging Markets GDP results from technical factors rather than a change per capita has grown rapidly, in absolute terms it in fundamentals.
Demand for Emerging Markets is still only comparable to Developed Markets in themes with relatively low correlation to the 1980, with many economies at a far earlier stage of US treasury market will continue: equities, local development.
Across Emerging Markets, political and currency assets, blended debt and shorter duration, fiscal accountability is leading to improved economic higher yielding corporate debt offer attractive stability, and capital markets and domestic pools of prospectivereturns.
As a consequence, the balance of world economic power is shifting in favour The market volatility of recent months should of Emerging Markets, such that it is increasingly not mask the fact that the Emerging Markets difficult for investors to justify ignoring the asset class opportunity is undiminished, and one that Ashmore or to persist with a profoundly underweight position.
purposefully seeks to capture on behalf of clients.
The Groups investment experience over more The factors behind this positive long-term view than two decades is a powerful tool in this regard, should not be confused with the noise that arises and our long-term investment experience is strong.
from the inevitable, but shorter-lived, volatility However, we are not complacent: we will continue associated with the business cycle.
In recent to strive to generate outperformance for our clients, months, the cyclical slowdown in certain Emerging and to deliver profitable growth for our shareholders.
Markets has been extrapolated by the market into something abysmal: and at the same time, expectations of a sustained and inflation-less Mark Coombs US economic recovery have increased, influenced Chief Executive Officer by the Federal Reserves signal in May of imminent QE tapering.
Our expectation is that both of these projections will be wrong.
Developed markets remain structurally challenged.
Their immense indebtedness will dampen economic recovery and will have to be addressed in due course through inflation and currency devaluation, with the US furthest down this path, albeit still with total public and private sector debt in excess of 400% ofGDP.
In contrast, the ability of Emerging Markets to withstand cyclical and external stresses has improved dramatically over the past two decades.
They have on average one-tenth the leverage of the US economy: the debt they have is overwhelmingly in local currency and owned by domestic institutions: they operate with increasingly orthodox and effective inflation policies: they control 80% of the worlds foreign exchange reserves: and where it occurs, currency depreciation restores competitiveness.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9
