Chief Executives strategic review 2013 has been a year of significant change for Barclays.
A year ago we set out the outcome of our strategic review and our Transform plan to make Barclays the Go-To bank for all our stakeholders.
We continue to take steps to fide-risk the business, strengthen the balance sheet, increase the efficiency of our operations and are making good progress against our plan.
Our 2013 results clearly demonstrate the benefits of the diversity we enjoy in the Group, as well as the strength of our core franchises.
While impacted by the restructuring and fide-risking activity, underlying business performance has been resilient, with adjusted income of 28.2bn and adjusted profit before tax of 5.2bn.
Our core franchises remain strong, with UK Retail and Business Banking, Barclaycard, UK Corporate Banking, and within the Investment Bank our Equities and Investment Banking businesses all delivering good performances in 2013.
Important progress has also been made in repositioning our African, European and Wealth businesses, although further work is required to get returns to acceptable levels.
Our Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities business in the Investment Bank saw revenues fall, in line with our European peers, as market conditions remained subdued.
We are making good headway across the financial commitments we set out as part of our Transform plan as well as on fide-leveraging to meet the PRAs revised target.
I am pleased by our progress on RWAs and leverage.
We have been able to move more quickly than anticipated in managing down CRD IV RWAs, bringing us a little below our Transform target well ahead of the 2015 timeline.
Through rigorous We have made good analysis and focus, we have also virtually achieved the PRA leverage target six months in advance of the June 2014 deadline.
progress in 2013 and we We have invested considerably in transforming our businesses.
In the start 2014 in a better position months ahead we expect to see the benefits of this coming through.
We narrowly missed our cost guidance for 2013, largely due to a than for several years.
While 331m increase at year-end in certain litigation provisions, but the true operating performance of Barclays was on track.
Costs are a key area of focus for us and we remain committed to our 2015 Transform cost recognising there is much target of 16.8bn.
Compensation for key talent is one area that we were prepared to invest in strategically.
Our aim is to deliver a greater more to do, we have every share of the income we generate to shareholders while remaining competitive on pay.
Although profits for 2013 were down, the 38% reason to feel positive about reduction in incentives in the previous two years had begun to cause demonstrable damage to our business through increased attrition, with our prospects and confident a near doubling of resignations of senior staff in the US for example.
We concluded that a 2013 incentive pool of 2,378m was appropriate.
that we will become the Whilst this is up 10% on the final 2012 incentive pool, before adjustment for risk and conduct events it is down 18% on 2012 Go-To bank for all our and remains 32% below the pool level in 2010 when we started to reposition Barclays remuneration.
This was a difficult decision, stakeholders.
but the right one for the long term interest of our shareholders.
We have also made progress against the two non-financial commitments we made last February.
The first of these, culture change, and in particular the process of embedding our Purpose and Values throughout the organisation, is going well.
Every colleague has completed a mandatory training programme, and we have integrated our Purpose and Values into the day to day management processes of the Bank.
We have developed and published our new Code of Conduct which every colleague must abide by and attest to annually.
04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 The role of the Group Chief Executive Chief Executives strategic review 04 includes implementing the Groups Strategy and operating environment 06 strategy as agreed by the Board.
Here Business model Value creation 08 Antony provides his view on the events Balanced Scorecard 10 of 2013, and a progress update on Group Finance Directors review 12 execution of the Transform plan.
Strategic Risk overview 14 Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 The recent publication of our Balanced Scorecard for the Group addressed the second non-financial commitment we made, establishing the critical final component in our leadership framework.
The Balanced Scorecard sets out a clear description of what we want Barclays to be, with eight clear targets out to 2018 against which our progress can be assessed by all of our stakeholders.
The scorecard, alongside our Purpose and Values, is now embedded in how we measure and reward individual and business performance.
This is a unique and powerful tool that aligns the organisation behind our Transform goals.
We begin 2014 in a better position than for several years.
2013 showed the tremendous value of the breadth and diversity of Barclays earnings profile, and we have seen continued evidence of the strong fundamentals which are essential for longer term growth.
We have started to put our legacy issues behind us, and have greater clarity on what the future holds, particularly in terms of regulation.
With my leadership team in place and building on the progress we have made on our Transform programme in 2013, we will continue to adapt and optimise our business, reaping the substantive benefits of our work in 2014, 2015 and beyond.
While we have much more to do and we expect the operating environment to remain challenging, we have every reason to feel positive about our prospects and confident that we will become the Go-To bank for all our stakeholders.
Antony Jenkins Group Chief Executive Our purpose Our values What is Barclays for?
How will Barclays do that?
Respect means respecting and valuing those we work with Becoming the Go-To bank will be realised with a our colleagues and other stakeholders.
It is about building trust renewed focus, fuelled by this common purpose.
We exist for our clients and customers, for our Integrity demands we act fairly, ethically and honestly.
This requires shareholders, our colleagues, and other stakeholders us to have the courage always to do the right thing, never tolerating we exist for the purpose of helping people achieve the wrong thing, and to be accountable for our decisions.
Service means ensuring our clients and customers are always uppermost in our minds.
We must strive to exceed their expectations Helping people in the right way means how we do it becomes so we automatically become their Go-To bank.
as important as what we do.
Excellence calls on us to use all our energy, skills and resources to deliver great service for our customers and clients and outstanding sustainable results for shareholders.
Stewardship is about being determined to leave things better than we found them, so we constantly strive to improve the way we operate as an organisation and the impact we have on society.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 05
