Q&A with the chief executive Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2014.
Q Youre giving a lot of money back to shareholders this year.
Are there no attractive opportunities to invest it in the business?
A I think our position has been clear and consistent.
We hold a capital surplus over and above regulatory requirements.
Our preferred use of capital is to deploy it on opportunities to underwrite profitably.
However there will be times in the cycle when the group will generate excess capital and not have the opportunity to deploy it.
At such points the board will return capital to shareholders.
This is one of those times.
We do see opportunities for growth and we expect our business to grow by approximately 5% in 2014.
We have taken steps to ensure that we have sufficient capital available to support this growth.
But I also believe that Andrew Horton an important part of our job is to manage our capital efficiently Chief executive and to return funds to shareholders when they exceed our needs, prudently quantified.
Q Its been a very benign year for catastrophe Q Major new sources of competition are losses.
How much did this contribute to your emerging in reinsurance from insurance-linked underwriting result?
How much of a challenge does this pose for Beazley?
A Five of our six divisions achieved strong underwriting profits last year and much of this contribution notably from A I believe that the pension funds that have been allocating our specialty lines, marine and political risks & contingency funds to reinsurance are here to stay, so we need to think of this divisions came from non-catastrophe exposed lines of as a long term change affecting our business.
The benign catastrophe experience did, however, enable us to release more catastrophe related reserves that Our treaty reinsurance division currently accounts for about might not otherwise have been available.
11% of our business and we actually buy more reinsurance than we sell.
At the January 1 renewals this year, our reinsurance underwriters saw premium rates fall by approximately 15% for US business and 10% for non-US business.
That said, rates are falling from historically high levels and, on the plus side, our property and marine divisions have secured significant savings on their reinsurance purchases.
So the influx of new capacity into reinsurance markets is certainly having an impact on our business.
Looking ahead, it may make it more difficult near term for us to grow in reinsurance.
And over time the availability of cheaper reinsurance will have a knock-on effect on pricing in the direct insurance market, but I dont expect to see that happening in the coming year.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Momentum Underwriting Management in 2008, we have recognised the need to invest.
In 2011, we acquired two further Q Recent steps taken by the US Federal Reserve businesses in Australia and we have been seeking to build are seen as heralding the end of practically free a strong business from the ground up in the US.
As interest rates edge up, will premium rates for your medium tail business head down?
In Australia claims increased in 2013 in line with a more challenging economic environment.
Working closely with our largest client, we were able to secure renewal terms reflecting A We maintain a substantial investment portfolio in excess this, putting us on a sound footing going forward.
The ratio between this and our shareholders equity is approximately 4:1, so a 1% investment return translates into Some of our investments have taken longer to bear fruit a 4% return on equity.
Clearly, therefore, higher interest rates than we would have liked.
In the US, uncertainties over are good for our business.
implementation of the Affordable Care Act have dogged our progress.
For example, the so-called employer mandate in the That does not prevent short term fluctuations occurring of the Affordable Care Act which requires all businesses with more kind we saw in the first half of last year.
Then investment than 50 full time employees to provide health insurance for returns fell temporarily due to mark to market losses in our their employees has been delayed until 2015.
This matters to fixed income holdings caused by rising interest rates.
our business because we focus on gap protection insurance to employees of companies who may wish to buy supplementary Looking ahead, I am sure we will come to see downward cover over and above the cover their employers give them.
pressure on premium rates in certain lines of business as interest rates move up.
But we dont expect that to happen for a couple of years and, in 2014, we expect rates for our Q Do you see mergers and acquisitions specialty lines division to increase slightly.
reshaping your markets, and can we expect Beazley to be a participant in that process?
Q How efficient do you think the placement process is for the business Beazley specialises in?
A We have seen a lot of interest from non Lloyds insurers in Are there measures brokers and underwriters the Lloyds market over the past year.
can take to make it more efficient, for the benefit The reasons we like Lloyds and do more than 90% of our business through our Lloyds syndicates are not a secret.
Others have cottoned on to them too.
Through Lloyds brokers and thanks to a global system of licences, Lloyds underwriters A I think there are opportunities to make placement more have access to a very diverse range of insurance and efficient and we support them, as long as they dont unduly reinsurance business.
This diversity also permits a high level limit our underwriting discretion.
For example, many brokers of capital efficiency, because the more diverse and uncorrelated are establishing panels of insurers with expertise and your risk exposures are, the less capital you need to maintain experience in particular lines of business.
This narrows the to underwrite them safely.
number of insurers the broker needs to market a particular risk to, while ensuring we would hope that the insurers So I think there are good reasons for non Lloyds insurers to be that do get shown the risk are experts in the field.
We have interested in obtaining a presence at Lloyds.
For us at Beazley, joined a number of these panels.
M&A is not our preferred route to growth.
We have grown mainly organically throughout our history and, as long as we can continue to be a magnet for talent in our industry, organic Q Your life, accident & health division had growth should continue to work well for us.
That doesnt mean a tough year in 2013.
that attractive acquisition opportunities may not arise.
It just means that we will continue to be very circumspect in evaluating them.
A We expect the combined ratio of our life, accident & health division to improve significantly in 2014.
Since we began to expand in these lines of business through the acquisition of www.
