Chief executives statement Our combined ratio in 2013 was the best we have reported since becoming a public company.
Beazleys businesses delivered an excellent result in 2013, generating a profit before income tax of $313.3m 2012: $251.2m on gross premiums of $1,970.2m 2012: $1,895.9m.
Our combined ratio of 84% 2012: 91% is the best we have reported since becoming a public company at the end of 2002.
While we were aided by a benign claims environment, this was also testament to a focus on underwriting profitability that has sustained Beazleys performance throughout the companys history.
With a longstanding commitment to profitability first and growth second, we have nevertheless continued to identify attractive growth opportunities.
Specialty lines, our largest division, grew net premiums by 7% to $708.0m, buoyed by rate rises of 3%.
Property, our second largest division, saw growth in net premiums of 12% and delivered a contribution to profits of $65.2m, the largest in the divisions history.
Property rates rose by 3% and, across the company, rates rose on average by 1%.
Andrew Horton Chief executive These two divisions account for the vast majority of business we underwrite locally in the United States, our largest market and one that is now home to 340 Beazley employees and the location of ten Beazley offices.
We saw the growth of our locally underwritten US premiums accelerate in 2013, increasing by 17% to $451.8m.
Prior year reserve releases contributed $218.0m to our underwriting result 2012: $126.0m.
A consistent approach to reserving has long been an important feature of our business model, enabling us to make prior year reserve releases as claims crystallise.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Profitable growth in the current market is by no means plain Claims activity sailing.
At the half year, we identified increasingly competitive The 2013 Atlantic hurricane season was the first since 1994 to headwinds from a number of sources.
In particular, there end with no major hurricanes and, overall, our claims experience has been an influx of new capital from pension funds into has been relatively light.
Our focus on providing high quality the reinsurance market, which will continue to depress claims service remains very strong, however, and we were rates, particularly for peak zone US catastrophe cover.
Our delighted that this was recognised in 2013 with two awards reinsurance division, representing 11% of our total gross for our handling of claims in the aftermath of superstorm Sandy premiums, saw rates on renewals fall by 3%.
With offices in in October 2012.
Munich, Singapore and, most recently, Miami serving cedants in Latin America our reinsurance team is still able to grow by A landmark of a different kind occurred in late November, when focusing increasingly on the development of non-US business.
our technology, media and business services team helped a client manage its first and our 1,000th data breach.
Our marine division continued to deliver very impressive Data breaches occur with high frequency and require a very underwriting results in 2013 in the face of stiff competition, specialised and multi-faceted response.
Beazley is the only particularly in the hull market, achieving a combined ratio insurer to have established a dedicated business unit to help of 72% 2012: 75%.
clients handle data breaches successfully an important factor in the huge success of our Beazley Breach Response product.
Much of our success as a company and particularly the consistency of our performance has derived from the careful Investment performance balance of our risk portfolio, comprising lines of business that Government bond yields rose sharply in the US and Europe in are not correlated.
Not all lines will perform well in all years, as 2013, anticipating a reduction in the amount of quantitative illustrated in 2013 by the contrasting fortunes of our political easing by the US Federal Reserve.
The rise in yields, the largest risks and contingency division and our life, accident & health for several years, was detrimental to our investment portfolio division.
The former had a good year, accounting for 7% and contributed to a reduction in our overall return, from 2% in of group premiums but almost 17% of group profits.
Our alternative asset allocation contributed life, accident & healths combined ratio of 125% reflected positively to the investment portfolio, with equity and credit challenging market conditions in Australia to which we funds performing especially well.
have responded with significant rate rises and continuing uncertainty over the roll-out of the Affordable Care Act in the During 2013 we made some changes to the management of US, which depressed demand for the health and disability gap our investment portfolio by changing our relationship with protection cover we offer to the employees of US companies Falcon Money Management.
This should enable us to achieve through their employers.
We continue to see growth potential lower investment management fees in future periods.
in 2014 in this market as the regulatory environment stabilises.
com Beazley 15 Annual report 2013 Chief executives strategic report continued The insurance needs of small technology, media and consulting Risk management companies in Europe are evolving rapidly and we see significant We continue to monitor closely the risks that could impact growth opportunities in this sector, working closely with brokers.
Given the nature of our business, the key risks that impact financial performance arise from insurance activities.
Our marine division also began to reap the benefit of recent These include the potential for changes in the tort law senior level hires.
In its first full year of trading, our aviation environment that could affect multiple teams within our team, under the leadership of David Oates, wrote business specialty lines division, as well as natural or man-made worth $28.7m.
Premiums for marine liability business, headed catastrophe losses impacting our short tail lines of business.
by Phil Sandle, rose from $14.7m to $25.9m.
Alongside these insurance risks, the success of the group depends on managing the risks to the execution of its strategy.
Our largest market is and will remain the United States.
We The board continues to receive a suite of risk information to write a large volume of predominantly large scale US risks from help it mitigate these and the other risks, which are described the Beazley box at Lloyds, but we also made good headway in more detail on page 47. in 2013 in building our smaller scale business written locally in the US.
The head of our specialty lines division, Adrian Cox, Growth opportunities relocated to Chicago in August, for a two year secondment, to We have a clear preference for developing organic growth become chair of the US Management Committee and oversee opportunities but we would consider acquisition opportunities, our US operation.
In 2013 we continued to plant the seeds of future growth, hiring talented individuals who in our Product innovation remains very important to us and to the judgement will be able to help us expand into new geographies brokers we do business with.
In September our political or lines of business.
violence team in London launched Beazley Flight, one of a new generation of insurance-based solutions that offer clients Latin America has not historically been a major source of specialist response services in the event of a claim.
We believe business for Beazley underwriters, but the rapid evolution Beazley Flight to be the most comprehensive emergency of many of the regions insurance and reinsurance markets evacuation cover currently on the market, providing expert led us to reappraise opportunities in the region in 2012 and advisory and evacuation service in a range of crisis scenarios.
In July we opened an office in Miami to focus on the development of reinsurance business in Latin America, Of course the Lloyds market itself is well known as a source headed by Paul Felfle.
And in December we announced the of innovation in insurance, so it was gratifying in May to be appointment of Ricardo Ortega as head of business able to participate in an initiative that stands to increase the development in Latin America, based in Rio fide Janeiro.
With attractiveness of Lloyds to large scale buyers of construction significant infrastructure investments now under way in Brazil and engineering insurance.
Beazley is one of four Lloyds and elsewhere, construction and engineering risks present insurers to form the Construction Consortium at Lloyds.
one area of opportunity among many.
Through the consortium we will be able to provide capacity for the largest projects, up to a maximum of $166m per risk, We continue to see substantial growth opportunities in Europe.
offering an alternative to the largest non-Lloyds insurers.
In the course of 2013, the European Union took further steps towards the adoption of a tighter regulatory regime for data Broker relations breach notification that will result in the EU being far more Great products and skilled underwriters are necessary but like the United States in this respect, increasing the appeal not sufficient conditions for success in our business.
Strong of our market leading cover for this risk.
And in May we broker relationships are also critical.
We work with brokers at welcomed Matthew Norris, one of the most experienced multiple levels and are constantly looking for ways to improve technology underwriters in the London market, to join our our service and enhance the value we provide.
Unlike many growing European team focused on small scale professional insurers, we make an effort to include our claims professionals indemnity business.
in many of our broker meetings as we believe that the knowledge and skills of our claims staff are important differentiators for Beazley.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility for managing our strategic relationships with key broking firms falls to our broker relations team, headed by Dan Jones.
In the course of 2013, we have continued to see efforts by brokers to streamline the placement process and reduce the number of carriers they routinely do business with.
We are happy to participate on broker panels and in other arrangements that do not curtail our discretion in writing, or declining, individual risks.
Solvency II After very extensive deliberations, Solvency II is now scheduled to come into force on 1 January 2016.
As described in earlier communications, we have invested heavily in preparing for the new regime and are confident we will be ready.
This has been a year of wide ranging achievements at Beazley and I am very grateful to all of our employees, working in often challenging markets, who have made these achievements possible.
But the culture and shared values that bind our people together are in many ways even more important than individual accomplishments, although harder to describe.
Every two years, we have a valuable opportunity in the form of the Great Place to Work survey to test perceptions in this area.
In 2013, 87% of our people completed the survey.
According to the definition adopted by the survey organisers we were already a great place to work, with a score in 2011 of 76%.
But this increased sharply last year, with 83% of respondents agreeing that Beazley was a great place to work.
I believe that this measure, which we have included as one of our key performance indicators on page 5 of this report, is intimately related to our financial success as measured by the other key performance indicators.
A specialist insurer such as Beazley relies heavily on the skills and versatility of its people to succeed: and a business that is seen so positively by its people enjoys a major competitive advantage.
Andrew Horton Chief executive 5 February 2014 www.
