Local Loop Unbundling LLU OUR CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS LLU allows CPs to offer DSL-broadband services by installing their We serve a number of different types of customers in the UK and own equipment in our exchanges and renting the copper line.
In this section we explain who our customers are can use our shared metallic path facility SMPF product to offer and the trends we see in the markets where we operate.
broadband over a WLR line or our metallic path facility MPF product to offer both phone and broadband services using their own UK consumers equipment.
We serve UK consumers through BT Consumer and BT Ireland both parts of BT Retail.
Ethernet There are around 26m households in the UK and our consumer Our Ethernet products offer dedicated, symmetric, bre-connectivity.
products and services can reach almost all of them.
CPs use them in their own networks and to provide high-quality, The market for xed calls and lines, broadband and TV is very high-bandwidth services to businesses and the public sector.
There are around 114 companies offering voice and or broadband services.
The market has concentrated over the last few BT TECHNOLOGY, SERVICE & OPERATIONS years with several strong players emerging.
The four largest providers During the year we brought together BT Innovate & Design and BT are BT, Virgin Media, Sky and TalkTalk.
Operate, our two internal service units, to form BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
There were around 17,000 people in Fixed calls and lines BT TSO at 31 March 2013, supporting our customer-facing lines of Around 22m, or 84% of homes in the UK have a xed phone line.
That proportion has stayed steady for the past three years.
Around We created it to simplify the way we work, help us further 15% of UK homes only have a mobile phone with around 1% having transform our cost base and speed up and improve delivery to BT no phone at all.
It is a simpler organisation with more efficient processes There were 24.4m home phone lines in the UK as at December and fewer hand-offs.
This means our design and development teams 2012 including some homes which have more than one phone line can react more quickly to operational changes and events.
and some SMEs who buy consumer services.
That is up 2% compared with last year.
An overall rise in the total number of homes in the UK Products and services coupled with more demand for xed broadband connections played BT TSO is responsible for the whole lifecycle of our global networks a part in that growth.
and systems from innovation, design, test and build through to At 31 March 2013 we had a total of 10.2m consumer xed lines in operational management.
We manage BTs voice, data and TV the UK, with around 9.8m active voice lines where a customer buys networks and IT applications which make up the core infrastructure calls from us as well as paying for the line.
for BTs products and services.
Our people also design and deliver the We have the largest share of xed lines to homes in the UK at networks and platforms which are used by our customer-facing lines 42%, compared with 47% last year.
Our share has been declining of business, and the large-scale global managed network services over the last few years as competitors have taken advantage of the which are sold to customers in the UK and internationally.
favourable regulatory regime in the UK.
We manage and deliver BTs long-term technology strategy and The number of minutes spent on calls from xed lines has been research and innovation programmes, including managing BTs falling for some time.
Customers are increasingly using mobiles, worldwide patent portfolio see page 8. email, social networking and other kinds of communication instead.
We are also responsible for managing the groups energy Our total call volumes declined 9% in the year, compared with an consumption and for putting strategies in place to cut our future 11% decline last year.
Broadband Reducing our energy use The UK has one of the highest levels of broadband availability in In the UK, we spent 274m on energy this year.
Almost all homes can get a xed broadband connection and business volumes have increased, we have achieved our fourth around three-quarters do so.
consecutive year of worldwide energy reduction, using 3.3% less The UK also compares favourably on broadband pricing.
Ofcom energy this year against our target of 1.5%.
The energy saving research ranks the UK the seventh cheapest out of 25 European programmes we ran in 2012 13 are expected to generate 33m in countries for standalone broadband and sixth cheapest out of 23 annualised cost benets.
countries for broadband and voice bundles.
At 31 March 2013 there were around 21.9m DSL, bre and cable Climate stabilising intensity broadband connections to homes and businesses in the UK, up by 5% We track how we are doing on climate change with a climate over last year.
Fibre penetration has grown signicantly during the year.
There We want to cut BTs CO e intensity by 80% by December 2020 2 are more connected devices and people are using more bandwidthcompared with 1996 97.
This year we achieved a 77% cumulative intensive applications such as watching video, streaming music and reduction.
More than half of households now own webconnected games consoles, over 40% of individuals connect their TV Security to the internet, and 15% of households own a tablet device.
Our physical and cyber security operations were previously managed According to Ofcom research, the average broadband download by BT Operate.
We now manage these through a separate security speed for the UK was 12.0Mbps in November 2012.
That is up from enterprise, BT Security, which is supported by BT TSO engineers.
Plusnet was ranked highest for average business is in charge of protecting our own and customers data and download speeds over copper.
BT Innity offers the most consistent assets.
We believe that it differentiates the services we can offer and speeds over a 24-hour period, with the lowest network congestion at will help us win in the market.
peak times, and the fastest upload speeds in the country.
We have around 6.7m retail broadband customers including business customers.
We are the UKs biggest broadband provider Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 17
