Close Brothers Group plc 4 Annual Report 2013 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Strone Macpherson, Chairman Strong Financial Performance We are pleased to report another year of significant progress The financial year was again shaped by for the group.
We have delivered a strong set of financial asubdued economic environment, with slow growth and events in the Eurozone results, reflecting the strength and stability of our simple, continuing to impact sentiment.
Against this challenging backdrop we had a strong prudent business model in a period of continued economic year with good growth in both revenues uncertainty.
We have continued to build on our successful and profit.
Adjusted operating income increased 10% to 582.9 million 2012: track record of earnings growth, supporting our strong capital 531.7 million and adjusted operating position and enabling us to continue to grow the dividend.
profit increased 24% to 166.5million 2012: 134.2 million, reflecting strong growth in Banking andareturn to profitability in Asset Management.
Adjusted basic earnings pershare increased 23% to 83.1p 2012:67.3p, while basic earnings per share increased 19% to 81.6p 2012: 68.6p.
Overall the groups return on opening equity improved to 16% 2012:12%.
Close Brothers Group plc 5 Annual Report 2013 Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive The group has maintained a strong capital Simple Business Model and Clear, achieving consistently high returns.
During and funding base to support growth, Consistent Strategy the 2013 financial year, the loan book with all ratios remaining well ahead of We continue to benefit from our focus on increased 13% to 4.6 billion 31 July regulatory requirements.
During the year, our core business activities in areas where 2012: 4.1 billion, the net interest margin our core tier 1 capital ratio improved to we have significant expertise, and we have remained strong at 8.8% 2012: 9.4% and 13.3% 31 July 2012: 12.8%, and our always set ourselves apart through our the bad debt ratio continued to improve to leverage ratio also increased slightly to 9.8% prudent and conservative approach to 1.2% 2012: 1.5%.
We expect to meet managing our balance sheet and capital maintained a good return on net loan allregulatory requirements of the Basel III position.
We have continued to support book of 3.6% 2012: 3.6%.
The division capital framework being implemented in our customers through a range of continues to generate strong profit growth Europe under CRD IV.
economic conditions and overall our with adjusted operating profit increasing strategy has remained unchanged.
17% to 157.8 million 2012: 135.0 million Dividend in the year.
Recognising our strong financial Our Banking division continues to maintain performance in the year and continued its distinctive, specialist, local lending Our Securities division has remained confidence in our longer-term prospects, model and our loan book is differentiated consistently profitable throughout the the board is recommending a 2.0p by being predominantly secured, small cycle, demonstrating its resilience in increase in the final dividend to 29.5p 2012: ticket and short term.
By staying focused difficult trading conditions.
This results in a full year on this model in all market conditions, we despite continued low investor risk dividend per share of 44.5p 2012: 41.5p, have maintained good growth while appetite, the divisions adjusted operating up 7%.
Close Brothers Group plc 6 Annual Report 2013 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued profit increased 5% to 25.7 million 2012: Over the years we have remained In Asset Management we have built a 24.5 million and Winterfloods adjusted differentiated through our distinctive client strong national presence, having fully operating profit increased 6% to 16.9 proposition, and the way we do business integrated the regional businesses acquired million 2012: 16.0 million.
Our priority resonates with our customer base.
We over the last few years.
At 31 July 2013 we remains to maintain our trading capacity, believe this reflects the strong legacy of had around 130 advisers in 10 UK offices and our flexible cost model maximises Close Brothers and the fact that all three and 50 investment professionals.
We have profitability in all market conditions.
divisions, while serving different client received strong external recognition for the Through the skill and experience of our bases, share the same commitment to quality of our investment products and the traders, Winterflood achieved a trading service, based on the traditional values of service we provide to our clients, receiving profit on 245 out of 253 trading days in merchant banking applied to the modern a number of awards in the year including theyear.
We recognise that the Financial Advisory Firm of the Year at relationships are critical to our success and the Citywealth Magic Circle Awards and In Asset Management we have completed our clients benefit from long-term, winning two Private Asset Manager our restructuring and have refocused the consistent contact with our expert teams awards.
division on wealth management for the UK across all three divisions.
As part of our In order to provide customers across the strategy, we have established a business Our lenders are highly experienced with a group with the highest level of service, we model and propositions that are designed strong understanding of their local markets.
continuously invest in developing the skills to benefit from market changes driven by We have 500 sales staff operating from of our people, as well as expanding our technology, demographics and regulation, more than 40 offices.
Our management distribution networks through attracting particularly RDR which came into effect teams in the Banking division have on and retaining new talent.
Our integrated average well over 20 years experience in investing in technology, to complement propositions, providing both advice and their niche, specialist fields, and many the skill of our people and enhance our investment management, have been well customer relationships are of a similar level of service, enabling us to adapt to received by clients and we are seeing tenure.
We know and understand our changes in customer behaviour and the strong inflows across our multiple customers needs which, together with our market environment.
In the year, Assets consistent pricing and underwriting through under Management AuM increased 9% the cycle, have helped us to generate For example, recognising that the speed to 9.1 billion 2012: 8.3 billion, reflecting consistently high repeat business levels.
of our decision making is critical to our market movements, and the division success, we have enhanced our point of returned to profitability as planned, Winterflood has around 90 skilled traders sale capabilities in the Banking division.
In delivering an adjusted operating profit of and is connected to over 40 trading motor finance we have developed e-click 4.0 million 2012: loss of 4.3 million.
Our strong relationships with which enables us to approve and issue morethan 450 stockbrokers and financial funds within 20 minutes while maintaining Long-term Relationships institutions, and our proprietary technology, the same level of credit control.
Similarly Underpinned by Strong Expertise have helped us to maintain our leading Winterflood continues to focus on It is clear that trust in the financial services market share and consistent position as developing its technology to maintain its sector and consumer confidence continue the number one market-maker to retail market leading position.
Despite this, we have brokers in the UK.
Similarly Seydler has successfully continued to build our maintained its position as the market business through the cycle, supporting leading designated sponsor in Germany, SMEs as their businesses grow, providing and has successfully leveraged these continuous liquidity to retail brokers through clientrelationships to build a strong capital Winterflood, and providing wealth markets franchise.
management services to a wide range of private clients.
Close Brothers Group plc 7 Annual Report 2013 Well Positioned for Continued Good In Securities, Winterflood continues to Board Changes Performance focus on its core market-making activities, Douglas Paterson has decided to We remain focused on driving organic maintaining its leading position while retire as a director of the company and growth and believe that all of our divisions markets have remained difficult.
An active consequently will not seek re-election at are now well positioned to deliver secondary market is, to an extent, the Annual General Meeting on continued good performance.
We believe dependent on an active primary market.
He was appointed to that there are significant opportunities in Last year, UK IPO activity was well below theboard in July 2004 and has served as the UKs markets, and that the groups UK pre-financial crisis levels and new money chairman of the Audit Committee.
We focus places us in a strong position to raised on AIM, which generates the thank him for his valued contribution to make the most of these.
highermargin trades for Winterflood, thegroup.
continued to be at historically low levels.
In the Banking division, we have a proven Winterfloods performance is highly The board has appointed Shonaid track record of sustainable growth and sensitive to retail investor sentiment and Jemmett-Page to succeed Douglas continue to believe there are good although risk appetite remained low during Paterson as chairman of the Audit opportunities for further penetration into the year, a number of changes in the UK, Committee with effect from 21 November our existing markets.
There is widespread such as increased primary market activity 2013, following the conclusion of the recognition of the role SMEs will play in the or increased retail trading on AIM, could Annual General Meeting.
economic recovery, but they remain improve trading conditions for Winterflood.
under-served by the banking sector.
We Outlook currently lend to over 23,000 SMEs in our We also believe that significant market Overall, the group is well positioned Commercial businesses and we believe opportunity exists in the UK for our Asset looking ahead to the 2014 financial year.
that our cautious, high quality credit Management division.
Post RDR, the underwriting and service-led approach industry remains fragmented and we We continue to see good opportunities for together with our reputation asa trusted, arewell placed to attract new clients growth in the Banking division and reliable lender place us in astrong position andassets following the transformation of Securities remains well placed for any for further growth in thismarket.
our business over the last three years.
We sustained improvement in trading have developed a scalable business from conditions.
In Asset Management we We also continuously explore opportunities which we can build our core flows while expect continued progress towards our to grow in adjacent areas which share driving operating leverage.
common attributes with our core lending generating strong asset inflows, and at the businesses.
For example, in recent years same time, we remain focused on We are confident in our outlook for the we have expanded our motor finance improving our operational efficiency.
business to serve larger, franchised motor result, we are making good progress dealerships, and we are developing our towards our medium-term targets to business which provides bespoke leasing achieve a revenue margin of around 100 solutions in asset finance.
basis points and an operating margin of 15% by the 2015 financial year.
