Chief Executive Officers review Investing in our future Delivering value for our customers Our focus on improving our pricing capability and claims infrastructure has particularly helped us to reduce prices for UK motor customers.
In addition, we have been exploring new ways in which we can innovate to achieve better outcomes for customers.
Direct Lines heritage is rooted in the revolution it unleashed by using the telephone to bypass the traditional high street insurance broker model and provide customers with more competitive products.
That innovation gave way to the advent of PCWs, which emerged in response to the growing purchase of insurance via the internet.
We are on the cusp of a new era, when growing customer use of new technologies prompts them to seek a different experience from their insurer, and where nimble providers can harness technology to offer both competitive products and more personalised solutions.
The strength of our data and brands, together with the operational and financial transformation of Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer our platform, leaves us well placed to help draw the road map for this new age.
For instance, we are piloting real-time online progress updates on car repairs, and we are offering telematics Our strategic progress and successful deliver y technology to give customers instant feedback on the quality of their driving, which can ultimately, if they drive well, improve of our targets is a direct result of the hard work road safety and save them money.
This has enabled us to deliver benefits to our customers We have also been working hard to reduce customer complaints across the Group and for the second half of 2013 our and returns to our shareholders.
complaint volumes decreased by 19% compared to the same period in 2012.
This is a key area of focus for us.
To ensure Overview of financial performance we are tracking how well we are responding to our customers needs, we have introduced a new key performance indicator I am pleased that in 2013 we continued to make good to measure the volume of customer complaints across the Group.
progress with our strategic priorities and financial targets, while maintaining our disciplined approach to underwriting We recognise that, while we have made improvements in in a highly competitive and deflationary marketplace in the how we interact with our customers, we have not met all of our UK.
We delivered an operating profit from ongoing operations aspirations to develop and differentiate our customer propositions of 526.5 million, an increase of 14.2% compared to and brands.
We have much to do to meet the evolving needs 2012 461.2 million : and total Group profit before of our customers, but we are rising to the challenge with tax of 423.9 million 2012: 249.1 million.
With a COR of 96.1% we achieved our COR target of 98% Delivering for our people for 2013.
This contributed to a RoTE of 16.0%, ahead of Our people continue to be the main driver behind delivering our long-term target of 15.0%.
While our results were helped better outcomes for our customers.
Although we have had to by higher reserve releases than expected, the momentum of remove 3,200 roles since the start of our cost savings initiatives, our transformation and self-help agenda continued to create to ensure our organisation can operate in the most cost-efficient benefits and opportunities.
We took positive steps towards manner, our consistent aim has been to treat colleagues with reducing costs across the business and improving our operating the utmost fairness and respect throughout redeployment or efficiency.
Within other areas of our strategy, such as pricing redundancy processes.
As we continue to drive an agenda and claims, we continued to deliver sustainable benefits for of operational and cultural change through the organisation, our customers and shareholders.
we remain committed to investing in our people, which in turn will help us to deliver the products and services that our customers value.
16 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report For more on our strategy see p. 18 For more on performance rewards see our remuneration report on p. 76 Developing stand-alone systems Outlook Ever since beginning our separation from RBS Group, we have The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive.
made significant investments to design and started to build a In this trading environment, we will continue to prioritise stand-alone IT infrastructure capable of supporting a multi-brand, targeting appropriate margins, even if this is at the expense of multi-product and multi-distribution channel business with premium or policy volumes.
We continue to progress initiatives 18 million in-force policies.
Notwithstanding the complex supporting our strategic priorities in order to seek to improve operational risk associated with this task, we aim for the our competitive position and performance in the longer term.
migration to have made substantial progress by the end of For 2014, we aim to achieve a COR in the range of 95% to 2014.
Alongside the construction of a stand-alone IT platform, 97% for ongoing operations, assuming a normal level of claims we are continuing to develop our technological capabilities from weather events.
Assuming underlying claims trends continue, by investing in other systems designed to improve customer a significant contribution from prior-year reserve releases is operations and business processes.
The opening of our own, currently expected, albeit at a lower level than in 2013. state-of-the-art data centres was a significant step forward in advancing our technology initiatives in 2013.
I would like to thank our people for the continuous hard work and dedication that they have demonstrated throughout the Regulatory environment year.
This has enabled us to continue to deliver benefits to We have continued to operate within a highly dynamic our customers, shareholders, and wider stakeholders.
and evolving regulatory landscape, particularly in the UK motor insurance market where over the past two years a number of reviews and initiatives have been announced by the UK Government, the Ministry of Justice MoJ, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, and the Competition Commission CC.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer The Group continues to engage proactively in new or emerging regulatory priorities.
Good conduct is integral to the Return on tangible Combined operating success of our business, which is why we decided to switch 3 5 equity % ratio % the sale of our motor legal protection product to opt in prior 3.1 ppts improvement to the publication of regulatory guidance, and why we chose to lay the foundations for DLG Legal Services as an alternative business structure, which should help shield our existing 16.0% 96.1% customers from potentially excessive third-party solicitor fees.
In December, the CC published the provisional findings of its ongoing investigation into the UK private motor insurance market.
We continue to work with the CC, and have always said we welcome the investigation, if it results in a level playing field and the removal of market dysfunction, to the benefit of our customers and consumers more broadly.
11 12 13 KPI 11 12 13 KPI Strategic priorities for 2014 4 During 2014 we aim to progress further towards delivering the 13.4% pro forma in 2012 remainder of the strategic financial targets we have set ourselves.
1 In particular, we aim to deliver our target of a total cost base of approximately 1 billion, as well as our Commercial 2 business achieving a COR of less than 100%.
See note 2 on page 2 We will also continue to enhance our products and update 2.
This assumes a normal level of claims from weather-related events and large losses.
our infrastructure to ensure we sharpen our customer experience, 3.
See note 3 on page 2 delivering what the customer has grown to expect, and doing 4.
See note 4 on page 2 so sustainably for all of our stakeholders, be they our 5.
See note 1 on page 2 customers, our people or our shareholders.
