Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIvES REvIEW Since November 2005 Booker Group During the year the UK food industry has been seeking to Focus, Drive and was challenged by horsemeat being Since November Broaden the business.
We continue to found in some comminuted beef 2005 Booker Group make good progress.
Over the past five years Booker has made good progress in has been seeking FOCUS tightening quality requirements and supply chain controls.
None of our commenced November 2005 to Focus, Drive products were found to contain horse Booker seeks to become the most and Broaden DNA.
We will continue to improve efficient operator in our sector.
Bryn quality and supply chain control in the Satherley and his team continue to the business years ahead.
We stop, simplify and standardise work and Prices Down invest most of the savings in customer Ours is a very price competitive service.
Through tight cash management market.
Every week we monitor we have now increased net cash from prices versus competitors and 63.4m last year to 77.2m this year.
during the year our price index This is after paying 15.8m as the cash remained competitive.
In the year we consideration for the Makro deal.
locked down prices for caterers which has proved very effective in DRIVE helping caterers plan their menu commenced March 2006 with confidence.
Booker Wholesale, our cash and carry Better Service business, served 486,000 customers Stock availability further improved this year up from 465,000 last year.
Guy to be the best we have achieved.
Farrant and the team continue to Drive choice, price and service.
Each year Our people are doing an excellent job.
Our customers rate Booker people we survey 40,000 customers to identify where improvements can be made.
Business Centre teams have been trained in PRIDE to help improve Customer satisfaction improved again this year and our customer count has the Parking, Reception, Internal, Delivery and Exit experience.
We have continued to expand Choice Up and improve our delivery service.
In 2007 we launched Euro Shopper as We have more specialist butchers and an entry price brand for independent greengrocers within the business.
It now has retail sales of 156m.
The range has 83 products Catering and retailers achieve a minimum of Catering Sales grew by 6.2% to 30% margin.
1.4bn, as our choice, price and In 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
Our Sales in the year to 29 March 2013 catering development sales force were 55m.
The quality and freshness continues to serve our existing of the produce is second to none and customers and to introduce new can be delivered to our customers customers to Booker.
within 48 hours of being harvested.
Chefs larder is our own label brand for caterers.
Sales were 207m, up 13% on the prior year.
Progress has been made across the range.
4 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Premier as we have increased capacity for Booker Direct Ritter-Courivaud delivery, and an integrated supply Premier, Bookers symbol group, Classic Drinks Chef Direct grew by 11%.
The estate grew to chain will improve availability.
This Mark Aylwin and his team are should help the Group grow to an 2,802 stores.
The retail development building our delivered wholesale team has put a lot of work into estimated 6bn of sales in the next business.
Booker Direct has great few years.
I am pleased that Steve compliance and building the sales customers including the prison and profits of existing Premier stores.
Blan and the team at Makro are service in England and Wales, Marks already settling into the Group.
We & Spencer and most of the cinema BROADEN paid for Makro through issuing 9.99% chains in the UK.
of our equity to Metro AG and a cash commenced April 2007 payment of 15.8m.
We are delighted In 2010 we acquired Classic Drinks, In the UK, Booker seeks to offer the to have Metro AG as a strategic an on-trade wholesaler supplying best choice, price and service to partner and major shareholder.
We pubs and licensed customers mainly caterers, retailers and small business.
can see opportunities to source with in the North West.
We are in the We also seek to become the suppliers Metro AG and to share expertise process of rolling this expertise out preferred route to market.
We also want to the benefit of our UK business.
to sell new products and services and The transaction has taken a year to reach new customers.
In India we seek complete and I am very grateful to all In 2010 we acquired Ritter-Courivaud, to become the best supplier to Kirana in Booker and Makro who have been a leading speciality food supplier to stores.
To achieve these objectives, patient during this process.
Through combining the we are Broadening the business.
logistics expertise we have in Booker Broaden includes: Improving the cash and carry Direct, with the catering knowledge business centre experience from Ritter-Courivaud and the Makro We have now converted 145 of our Groups buying scale, we launched The most important change we have 172 business centres to the Extra Chef Direct in 2012.
Chef Direct is made to Broaden the Group is the format.
This features a lighter, based in Didcot and has won some acquisition of Makro.
Makro serves brighter business centre environment important clients such as Aramark 1 million small business customers, and an improved choice, price and and loch Fyne Restaurants.
has great people, good locations service.
The conversion pays back in and excellent products.
Through around a year and we plan to convert In the last year the Group delivered Booker and Makro coming together a further 5 business centres to Extra 1.1bn of product to retailers and we seek to become the UKs leading in the year ahead.
The lessons from caterers in the UK.
Through using wholesaler to caterers, retailers and Extra will be rolled to the rest of the some of the space in the Makro small businesses.
We will offer our business and to Makro.
business centres we will be able to customers better choice, prices increase our delivered business.
and service via the internet, delivery Harnessing the Internet and cash and carry.
The transaction Booker India Sales at booker.
co. uk were 704m, was cleared by the Competition up from 635m last year and 15m In September 2009 we opened our Commission on 19 April 2013 and as in 2005.
All these sales are delivered first business centre in Mumbai.
We a result the Makro financials were not to our customers premises.
We have now have 12,000 customers and consolidated into the Group accounts 255,000 customers registered on the customer reaction has been for the year to 29 March 2013.
The the website compared to 170,000 excellent.
We have also launched real merits of the transaction will last year.
Customers can view their 185 Happy Shopper symbol retailers appear in the next few years.
We account details, use an iPhone app which harness the lessons from will combine the best ranges from and order products.
We have also Premier in the UK for the Kirana Makro and Booker to improve overall developed our first customer forum stores of Mumbai.
Through consolidating buying for Premier customers.
our first joint venture business centre volumes we should improve prices in Pune.
Our partner in Pune is for customers.
Service will improve 5 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIvES REvIEW continued Satnam Arora, who has expertise butchery apprenticeship.
28 new which compliments our own.
We now butchers graduated this year and have 3 branches in Mumbai and one 42 signed up for the next scheme.
joint venture branch in Pune.
We look We developed a similar scheme for forward to developing the Booker greengrocers with 47 colleagues offer to become the best choice, graduating this year and 85 signing price and service supplier to Kirana up for the coming year.
We anticipate For the sixth year running, the opening a further two branches in performance of the business means 2013 14. our people have shared in our success through our bonus system.
Sustainability With this great team of people Booker Booker was the first UK food will continue to make progress in the wholesaler to be awarded the Carbon year ahead.
Trust Standard and the first to achieve certification.
Booker are also We are delighted to have the team The Grocer Gold Green Wholesaler at Makro join the Group.
Together of the Year 2012. we will build a company which improves choice, price and service Booker ranked higher than any major for our customers.
wholesaler or multiple retailer in the 2012 Government Carbon Reduction Our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden Commitment league table.
the business remains on track.
Customer satisfaction continued to 13,000 customers are now recycling improve and we grew sales by over with Booker through the packaging 135m.
Most importantly we teamed and used cooking oil recycling up with Makro.
This helps our customers Makro will become the UKs leading save money, increase recycling wholesaler to caterers, retailers and levels and support more sustainable small businesses.
We will provide communities throughout the UK.
our customers with improved choice, prices and service via the internet, Overall Booker recycling volumes are up 42% against last year.
delivery and cash and carry.
We have a great team at Booker and Makro and We donated 126,000 meals to charity together we will help our customers in the last quarter.
A national roll out prosper in the year ahead.
is underway for every branch to link up with local food charities.
Charles Wilson People The progress at Booker has been Chief Executive achieved by our great team of people.
We are committed to continuing to make Booker better and safer for colleagues.
We are also developing talent.
For example, there is a shortage of butchers in the trade, so we have partnered with the University of West london to develop a formal 6
