Chief Executive O cers statement 9 out of 10 customers would Financial performance recommend us to a friend.
Earnings per share pro forma pence 5.8 % 25 22.4 21.1 20 15 10.3 10 5 0 2011 2012 2013 The pro forma earnings per share movement has been calculated using the unrounded pro forma earnings per VKDUH JXUHV IRU DQG XUWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ RQ HDUQLQJV SHU VKDUH FDQ EH IRXQG LQ 1RWH WR WKH QDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV 2013 Performance overview Last year was a landmark in esure Groups history that included Nimble, focused, a strong and resilient financial and operational performance within a competitive and changing market landscape.
We delivered pro forma earnings per share of 22.4 pence, up by adaptable 5.8% on 2012.
Despite signi cant market rating pressures, the Groups combined operating ratio improved from 92.8% in 2012 to 89.7% in 2013.
Both of these metrics and many others you will read in this document re ect the resilience of our business model and strategy.
We have adapted nimbly to changing market conditions while forging strong relationships We move quickly and adapt to a with our customers.
changing market while ensuring The Groups technical approach to risk selection and pricing is the bedrock of our ability to underwrite Motor and Home our customers are at the heart of insurance business at the right price for our customers.
review key metrics with daily, weekly and monthly analysis to identify market developments and opportunities which we can act upon quickly.
Motor underwriting In 2013, despite all the market challenges, the Group maintained a disciplined underwriting approach while bene ting from two speci c opportunities: the first full year of gender-neutral pricing, and segment re-entry following the Groups withdrawal four years ago.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 10 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Gross written premiums In-force policies Combined operating ratio m million % 4.0% 9.9% 3.1ppts 600 2.000 100 1.933 93.5 92.8 535.8 89.7 1.759 515.0 500 499.5 1.653 80 1.500 400 60 300 1.000 40 200 0.500 20 100 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Sheilas Wheels Since 2009, the market has signi cantly re-rated these Our Sheilas Wheels brand launched in 2005 and grew rapidly segments, with rates now higher than four years ago.
In the to become the largest female-focused car insurance brand in interim, the Group has improved its data-led underwriting, the UK.
This growth was predicated on two key factors brand bolstered its internal processes and introduced a new Claims strength and di erential pricing by gender.
Historical data System, all with the aim of optimally managing segments shows that women have less expensive claims than men on where personal injury frequency may be an issue.
So while the European Court of Justices decision to from April 2013, the first LASPO Reforms were introduced, outlaw gender pricing has, in our opinion, not been fair for putting greater market controls in place.
all women drivers in the short-term, the Group was able to I believe these factors presented, and continue to present, implement the transition for the bene t of our Sheilas Wheels a unique opportunity given our prior withdrawal.
In advance customers, and therefore, our Business.
of the LASPO Reforms and as they started to take e ect, we Equalised prices were forecast to favour men more than decided to return cautiously to those segments.
There have women across the market: however, the female dominant been some encouraging early signs that the re-entry segments Sheilas Wheels brand became more competitive for many are delivering a positive contribution: however, the LASPO existing customers.
Reforms will take time to have their full e ect.
Following a targeted burst of younger female driver growth Home underwriting prior to the gender law taking e ect on 21 December 2012, Our Home underwriting business had a successful year and we have been able to o er keen prices and retain more of delivered an excellent underwriting result in 2013, despite a our existing customers.
Our very pink brand has a natural competitive rating environment and the adverse weather in attraction within a largely commoditised market place to the Q4 2013.
The adverse weather continued in the early part advantage of our Sheilas Wheels customers and our Business.
of Q1 2014 and we have taken all steps necessary to assist Segment re-entry and LASPO Reforms customers who have been a ected.
To understand why the Groups strategy in 2013 was The Groups Home insurance growth has been delivered particularly e ective, it is helpful to understand the predominantly through price comparison websites, which Groups recent history.
In response to our early sight of o er homeowners easy ways to compare rates across many disproportionately high levels of whiplash claims, we took providers.
By encouraging more people to shop around in this the tough decision in 2009 to withdraw completely from market, where traditional and mortgage-linked providers are some previously pro table segments.
In the process, we still major players, I believe the Groups competitive Home temporarily reduced our in-force policies to protect the pricing and product quality makes us well-placed to bene t quality of our book.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 11 Chief Executive O cers statement continued Diversi ed income streams Summary esure Group is now a signi cant player in the UK Motor We have moved our business forward signi cantly in 2013 and insurance market with room to grow, even within its core delivered strong, resilient financial results through hard work markets.
As part of our diversi cation strategy, as well as and our customer-focused strategy.
having built a signi cant book of Home business, we o er a I encourage all my sta to continually look for new ways to range of additional insurance products, derive income from improve and adapt for the bene t of our customers, who are our investment portfolio and receive a share of pro ts from at the heart of everything we do.
Our marketplace changes our 50% investment in price comparison website Gocompare.
rapidly, and each year brings new challenges.
By remaining Together, this gives us a diverse range of income streams.
nimble, focused and adaptable we will continue to rise to During 2013, we also launched an enhancement to our those challenges for the bene t of all our sta, customers Motor additional insurance products with a keenly priced and shareholders alike.
combination of four products under the name Just in Case.
The attractive price that includes personal accident bene t, 2014 Weather update misfuelling cover, lost key cover and car hire enables us to Claims from the severe weather events in the first quarter of reach more customers with a range of enhanced cover at a 2014 are likely to cost the Group 3 million to 4 million more substantial discount to market prices.
I am pleased with the than expected.
The Group continues to manage the claims in customer response to date.
a fast and e cient manner to meet the needs of customers during their di cult times.
Our customers As the CEO of one of the leading Motor and Home insurers, Outlook my focus on a quality business starts and ends with a focus The rating environment for both the Motor and Home markets on our customers.
Our job is first to attract and then, work to remains highly competitive.
The Group expects gross written retain customers.
We do this by o ering excellent products premiums in 2014 to be similar to 2013, but may choose at competitive prices.
Each of our sta then works to serve tactically to reduce or increase premium depending on market those customers fairly and professionally throughout their conditions.
As a result, we are targeting a combined operating relationship with the Group.
ratio broadly similar to 2013, before adjusting for the impact of exceptional Q1 weather and assuming normal weather for In 2013, an increasing number of our Motor and Home the remainder of the year.
With our nimble and adaptable customers chose to renew their policies with esure and approach, underpinned by our disciplined underwriting, robust Sheilas Wheels, a testament to the service we provide and reserving and strong financial position, we are well placed competitive prices we o er.
High retention, in itself, helps to manage the cycle and poised for pro table growth when support growth within the competitive markets in which we market conditions permit.
operate and nine out of ten customers would recommend us to a friend.
Our sta Following the IPO, over two thirds of our employees were granted shares in esure Group plc and even more bene t Stuart Vann from our pro t share scheme.
We always look for ways to Chief Executive O cer ensure that the interests of sta, customers and shareholders can be further aligned in the provision of quality products, outstanding service and e cient working practices.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 12 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements esure Group Annual Report 2013 13
