Group chief executives letter We made new discoveries, started up new operations, strengthened our portfolio and secured a new future in Russia.
Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder, For BP, 2013 was a year of good progress in building a safer, stronger and better performing company.
We made new discoveries, started up new operations, strengthened our portfolio and secured a new future in Russia.
We also maintained our investment in the US while standing up for what we believe to be right.
Within BP, sadly, 2013 will also be remembered for the terrorist attack in Algeria in January, when four staff members and 36 colleagues from other companies were killed.
Those who died had many friends in BP and our thoughts remain with their loved ones, and with those who survived that terrible ordeal.
I was proud of the way people in BP responded with great compassion, but also with great fortitude.
This report contains a wealth of information on our performance.
I would like to draw out a few of the years highlights, all of which demonstrate how we are implementing our strategy, with its emphasis on clear priorities, a quality portfolio and distinctive capabilities.
Clear priorities: safety, capital discipline, project execution The first of our priorities is to run safe and reliable operations.
In 2013 we made good progress overall, but unfortunately we also suffered two driving-related fatalities as well as the loss of the four employees murdered at In Amenas.
Our thoughts are with those who have been bereaved.
We will implement the lessons learned.
In terms of general safety performance, however, we saw some encouraging progress.
The number of tier 1 process safety events the most significant incidents fell to 20 from 43 in 2012 and 74 in 2011.
We are definitely heading in the right direction, but there is always more to do and we remain vigilant.
We also saw improvements in measures that reect the underlying health of our business.
a For example, in upstream BP-operated plant efficiency reached 88%, and rening availability in downstream averaged 95.3% the highest level for 10 years.
These numbers reinforce my view that safety and value have the same roots: systematic, disciplined operations, undertaken by people who respect each other and work as one team.
b In terms of capital discipline, in 2013 we invested $24.6 billion, which kept us within our $25-billion limit, and we expect to keep capital expenditure broadly the same in 2014.
We know we have to invest wisely so we maintain our shareholders trust.
Turning to project execution, we saw three upstream major projects start up in 2013 in % the Gulf of Mexico, Angola and Australia.
Three more followed closely in the first months of 2014 the Chirag oil project in Azerbaijan and the Mars B and Na Kika Phase 3 projects 95.3 in the Gulf of Mexico.
Quality portfolio Beyond these start-ups, we extended our portfolio as a platform for growth in several other ways.
% 129 For example, we grew our exploration position by participating in seven potentially commercial discoveries, in Angola, Brazil, Egypt, India and the Gulf of Mexico.
We also drilled Reserves replacement ratio, excluding the impact 17 exploration wells, more than in the previous two years put together.
BP has built up great of acquisitions and divestments.
skills in nding oil and gas and we are seeing the results of investing in our explorers.
8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report And in the US lower 48 which excludes Alaska and Hawaii we intend to create a separate Our strategy BP business to manage our onshore oil and gas assets, which we believe will help to unlock For more on our strategic priorities and the significant value associated with our extensive resource position there.
Our reserves replacement ratio was 129% of production.
When we include the net growth in our Russian portfolio as a result of the change of our holdings, the reserves replacement c ratio on a combined basis was 199%.
In the Downstream, we completed the commissioning of all major units for the Whiting renery.
This landmark modernization programme, our fourth major project start-up in 2013, is turning what began as a 19th century plant into a truly 21st century one.
It is now able to compete strongly by processing a wide range of crudes, including heavy oil from Canada.
More generally, our Downstream business has transformed its shape over the last five years.
In the US, we have sold two facilities and we now have three modern reneries that are well congured and well connected to important markets.
In lubricants, 40% of revenue now comes from our premium brands.
In petrochemicals, we are also focusing on high-growth regions and new technologies.
Distinctive capabilities New acetic acid and ethylene technologies announced by the petrochemical team in 2013 are among a series of innovations we have developed in support of our exploration, production, rening and marketing activities.
These include advanced seismic imaging capacity using one of the worlds largest civilian supercomputers enhanced oil recovery techniques and leading lubricant processes.
Top: Bob Dudley and Iraq Oil Minister Abdul Karim Al Luaibi right being shown the first meter Our technologies are complemented by the capabilities of our people, which we continue to be installed on one of the wells in Kirkuk.
In to deepen through training and development, and our experience in building and October BP signed an agreement with the maintaining relationships.
government of Iraq on providing technical assistance relating to the Kirkuk oil eld.
New future in Russia Relationships have been vital in securing a new future for BP in Russia as a 19.75% Bottom: Investors see how BP manages the risks shareholder in Rosneft.
Rosneft is implementing its strategy for growth across a promising of deepwater drilling at a eld trip in Houston.
portfolio and paid us a dividend of $456 million in 2013.
We look forward to exploring They tested our well simulator which gives rig opportunities for BP to work with Rosneft in the years ahead.
operators a better understanding of both Making our case in the US prevention and response techniques.
BP has continued to meet its commitment to environmental and economic restoration in the Gulf of Mexico.
We have also been swift to counter illegitimate claims and to argue for a fair resolution to compensation matters.
By the end of the year the total cumulative cost to the company had reached $42.7 billion, the scale of that amount underlining once again that BP is living up to its responsibilities in the region and to the US as a whole.
The US remains vitally important to todays BP, with around 20,000 employees across the country and we estimate that our economic activity supports a further 240,000 additional jobs.
Nearly 40% of our shares are held in the US, and we invest more there than in any other country.
Looking ahead We are a smaller but stronger company, having divested $38 billion of assets over three years.
In October we announced that we would divest around a further $10 billion of assets before the end of 2015 a decision that reects our commitment to balancing reinvestment with rewards for our shareholders.
We expect to use the proceeds predominantly for distributions to shareholders, with a bias to share buybacks.
Our unrelenting focus on capital discipline and systematic operating is increasing the free d cash ow we have available.
We are on track to meet our goal of generating more than e $30 billion of operating cash ow in 2014, an increase of more than 50% on 2011.
Im looking forward to 2014 with great confidence.
I think you will see a re-energized and refocused BP a company that is set to become stronger and safer in every way, as we full our mission of delivering energy to customers and value to shareholders.
a Bob Dudley See footnote a on page 25. b Excludes acquisitions and Rosneft transaction.
Group Chief Executive c See page 247 for further information.
6 March 2014 d See footnote c on page 56. e See footnote b on page 56.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 9
