10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Chief Executives review We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 30 June 2013, once again reporting record revenues 22% and operating profits 28%.
The most salient features are the record Improvement in sentiment, allied to growth in net new business and clients.
"continued quantitative easing and low ""We remain Net new business was 5.1 billion 59% interest rates, served to improve stock and we welcomed 76,000 net new clients markets during the year, with the FTSE Allfocused on client 69%."
Share index advancing 14% in the year to 30 June 2013. service, which We remain focused on client service, which leads to client recommendation and Hargreaves Lansdown's 2013 results contributes to our growth and success.
We report a record profit before tax of leads to client 96% of clients rated our services as good, 195.2 million, up 28% on last years very good or excellent.
Our ability to attract and recommendation retain assets and clients has been key Our identified areas of growth: private and to our continued profitability.
We would occupational pensions: our investment single out our new pension incentives, and contributes supermarket: and the internet continue to improvements in the provision to look be strategic priorities.
The forthcoming after family investments, the expansion of to our growth Retail Distribution Review RDR is an equity trading and the embracing of mobile opportunity to capitalise on our respected technology as key successes.
Our pioneering position in the growing popularity of self-directed We report a substantial 38% increase in Ian Gorham investing is proving its worth.
client assets under administration from Chief Executive Officer 26.3 billion to 36.4 billion.
Net new Review of the economic background business for the year was 5.1 billion 2012: Excessive debt is still a feature amongst 3.2 billion with market movement and countries, banks and individuals.
Some other factors adding a further 5.0 billion.
economic data with regard to employment An additional 76,000 investors 2012: figures in the UK and particularly the US is 45,000 became net new clients during the encouraging.
However, the volatile reaction year taking total active clients for Vantage of markets to any change of policy by and advised services combined to 507,000. institutions such as the US Federal Reserve acts as a reminder of the continuing fragile nature of the economic environment.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 Our Corporate Vantage service continues None of this success would be possible We continue to enhance our services and to expand, with 78 schemes live or in without the confidence of our clients.
take advantage of the RDR, a regulatory implementation 2012: 47.
This 66% We work hard to retain their loyalty by development which requires shortincrease in schemes has been accompanied delivering high service levels and an term operational systems changes but by a 275% increase in Corporate Vantage efficient experience.
As some assets, which have now passed the 350 Banks and financial advisers withdraw million mark.
Although this project remains 2013 market outlook from the market we are presented with the long-term we remain delighted with the Whilst there is some indication that opportunity to fill that gap profitably with success to date.
companies and economies have adapted our low-cost, efficient and trusted services.
to deal with the new paradigms of low Our mission is to retain our position as the interest rates and low growth, austerity is In the 2014 financial year there will be best place in the UK to buy investments.
here to stay for some time.
A more positive some pressure on income earned from We are estimated to have 28% of the environment may be developing, but shortcash deposits, caused by the current direct investing market Source: The Direct term volatility will remain, as markets react extremely low interest rates.
This has been Platform Guide Issue 3, February 2013, a to any potential removal of stimuli.
exacerbated by the governments Funding market predicted to expand substantially, for Lending scheme which has reduced and over the last year we have increased Last year I wrote we shall have to work deposit rates significantly.
assets, clients and market share.
For hard to promote the benefits of investing.
example, Hargreaves Lansdown saw an Reduced state support for the public means Throughout Hargreaves Lansdowns history increase of 24.2% in Stocks and Shares saving and investing is more important the cost of retail investing, including ISA subscriptions in the 2012 13 tax year than ever.
There is little prospect of our own charges has reduced over time.
against the previous tax year, whereas UK higher interest rates on cash in the near We will continue to share the benefits of overall Stocks and Shares ISA subscriptions future so equities and bonds remain good scale, technology and success with our increased by only 5.4% in the year.
alternatives for potential higher income.
Our clients have During the year we further improved our equity markets also offer patient investors previously rewarded us with increased stockbroking services in nature and scope the opportunity for future capital growth.
volumes of business for our investment resulting in our share of the UK executionThe same remains true today.
and we will work hard to encourage them to only stockbroking market rising to 19.4% continue to do so.
For example, this year 2012: 14.1% - source ComPeer XO Quarterly Company outlook we have undertaken an exercise to improve Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2013.
We During the year we consolidated our discounts from investment providers, also saw increased business in Investment position as a leading FTSE 100 company.
providing an additional edge in giving value Trusts, ETFs and passive funds.
Our financial success has been built on to clients in return for their loyalty.
continuing to deliver exceptional service, information and value.
As a profitable company with no debt we present the financial strength to give investors comfort.
This also enables us to reinvest in our business and respond to competitor activity.
co. uk 12 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 The impact of regulation The year saw two new regulators: the During the year we have supported the We expect regulatory change to continue, Financial Conduct Authority FCA and campaign for annuity shopping around: creating challenge and cost, but also Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA which supported amendments to the Pensions Bill opportunity.
Hargreaves Lansdown has the replaced the Financial Services Authority to potentially increase pensioner income: scale, resources and innovative skills to FSA.
We are now regulated by the FCA worked with political parties to simplify cope with additional regulation which is an and consider we have a constructive auto-enrolment: supported the IMA increasing barrier to entering or competing relationship with regulators.
Whilst it is campaign for clearer charges and backed in our marketplace.
early days, we consider the conduct of the the FCA in promoting good regulation.
FCA at policy level, particularly in seeking The Retail Distribution Review RDR engagement and consumer-friendly Over six million children cannot take remains a major theme.
We have benefited outcomes, to be positive.
advantage of Junior ISAs because they are from RDR Phase 1 introduced on 31 locked into the obsolete Child Trust Funds December 2012 which relates mainly to We encourage the new regulators to seek CTFs - where there are fewer providers, financial advice.
Our advisory services practical outcomes that make a difference less choice and often poorer returns.
After were fee-based long before the rules were to investors and reward good practices, lobbying from Hargreaves Lansdown and implemented.
New assets gathered from resisting foisting vast paperwork and others the Government has now agreed advice increased 42% to 786 million and warnings that confuse, serve little useful to consult on what we hope to be the first our discretionary service, PMS, saw 31% purpose and add cost for consumers.
step in allowing CTFs to be transferred to growth in assets during the year.
The rules Hargreaves Lansdown has been successful superior Junior ISAs.
also encouraged a move to self-directed to date despite regulation and government investment resulting in a flood of transfers apathy in supporting investing.
It is easier We support improved portability of client of assets and clients gained from advisory to promote gambling, alcohol or pay-day assets, encouraging retail investors to businesses.
loans to the UK public than the concept move easily from old, obsolete investment of investing in reputable investments or plans to better value modern products.
The rules for RDR Phase 2 were published financing British companies to support on 26 April 2013.
The reforms require our economy.
We seek to remain the friend of the retail the unbundling of pricing on investment The FCA, working with the Treasury, has investor, whatever their financial means.
products and from 6 April 2014 fees for the opportunity to take a fresh look at Our new RDR pricing structure has been investment and platform services will be achieving sensible regulation and make it specifically designed to be fair, attractive charged separately.
The rules are clear easier to encourage the UK public to invest.
and excellent value for both small and large and we are confident about implementing investors.
these changes whilst maintaining our Contributions to the Financial Services high service levels.
Our investment in Compensation Scheme FSCS continue Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its negotiating lower charges for clients and to be a burden.
We are supportive of a corporate taxes in full in the UK, and we our own investment in systems to facilitate safety net for retail investors but we remain shall continue to seek to be a role model low charges will result in the majority critical of the way the FSCS is funded and for how financial services companies can of clients paying less for their investing some of its supplementary activities.
deliver a great service, reputable behaviour services in future.
We expect to introduce We continue to campaign for a rational, and profitability in harmony with the UK our new pricing model for funds in early sensible, economic compensation scheme, public.
2014. including having direct dialogue with the FSCS over our concerns.
Conclusion The impact of RDR Phases 1 and 2 will take I would again like to thank our clients, a while to filter through.
We do not expect Corporate citizenship and improving shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.
RDR to cause any material disruption to investing for the UK public Their continued support, good humour and profitability.
Provided the RDR changes We see our purpose to be a safe custodian, efforts have delivered exceptional results.
are applied fairly to all companies, our offer a great service and exercise the UK proposition of a strong service and value publics buying power on their behalf.
We Ian Gorham offering to a loyal client base should help work tirelessly and innovatively researching Chief Executive Officer us to navigate the change well.
how to help people make the most of their 10 September 2013 money.
One aspect of achieving this goal is to campaign on behalf of the retail investor to make investing easier and cheaper.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 Award winning services The experience gained over Our awards four decades has allowed us Best User Best Financial to develop a service tailored Experience Services plc precisely to the needs of private The Platforum UK Stock Market Awards investors.
96% of our clients rate our service good, very good or excellent, we win numerous prestigious industry awards and Best Direct Best Online Fund Platform Supermarket our clients continued loyalty The Platforum Money AM Awards Best Online Fund has created an enormously Supermarket Provider WINNER successful, and financially secure, blue chip company.
Corporate Best SIPP Platform Provider Wrap provider 2007-2012 of the year What Investment Professional Best SIPP Provider Pensions Hargreaves Lansdown 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 Best Direct to Most effective Customer pensions Platform change strategy Aberdeen UK Employee Platform Awards Benefits Awards Best Stocks Best Share Fund & Shares ISA Dealing Service Provider What Investment What Investment For more information visit: www.
co. uk about-us our-awards www.
