HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Group Chief Executives Review 254,000 at the end of 2013, primarily through Group Chief Executives disposals and our cost-reduction programmes.
We Review achieved an additional US$1.5bn of sustainable cost savings bringing our total annualised sustainable cost savings to US$4.9bn since 2011.
This comfortably exceeded our target of US$2.5-3.5bn and provides good momentum into 2014.
On a constant currency basis and excluding UK customer redress and restructuring costs, operating expenses in 2013 were broadly flat compared to 2010.
This demonstrates the impact of our sustainable cost savings and business disposals in broadly offsetting cost increases, which came primarily from inflationary pressures, the UK bank levy and investment in risk and compliance, as well as business initiatives.
We have positioned HSBC to capture international trade and capital flows, 90% of which go through markets covered by our international network.
We have also sought to capitalise on the advantages that our unique network provides.
We have focused on our product capabilities to 2013 marked the end of the first stage of broaden client coverage, grown revenue through implementation of our strategy for HSBC.
greater collaboration between global businesses and Throughout this three-year period we have worked strengthened them through investment and senior constantly to reshape HSBC and improve returns.
hires in strategic markets such as Hong Kong, The Group today is leaner and simpler than in 2011 mainland China and Germany.
We have also with strong potential for growth.
combined our market-leading position in Asia In 2011, I outlined a strategy to realise our and our global reach to cement our position as the purpose as a business and to establish HSBC as number one international bank for renminbi RMB the worlds leading international bank.
It aims to business in the world, as recognised by the 2013 capitalise on two major trends: the continuing Asiamoney Offshore RMB Services Survey.
Our growth of international trade and capital flows: and leadership in the Greater Chinese market continues wealth creation, particularly in Asia, the Middle East to be reflected in our first place rankings in the dim and Latin America.
Over the last three years we have sum bond issuance and Hong Kong M&A league put this into action, pursuing more effective capital tables for 2013, and the announcement that we are deployment, greater organisational efficiency and the first custodian bank to service London-based improved growth.
renminbi qualified foreign institutional investors.
We have simplified HSBC considerably since Our presence in markets across all of the major 2011, initiating the disposal or closure of 63 non - global trade routes has enabled us to support clients strategic businesses or non-core investments, with international growth ambitions.
This represents a potential we launched funds in Canada, Egypt, France, reduction in risk-weighted assets of around Mexico, Turkey, the UAE, the UK and the US US$95bn, equivalent to about 9% of 2010 year-end offering financing to help our internationally focused risk-weighted assets.
To date, about US$90bn in SME clients.
We have continued to build our risk-weighted assets have been released with, international network through investments in city potentially, some US$5bn still to come.
clusters, notably in the US, mainland China and Germany.
Our clients are also benefiting from the We have transformed the way that we run the global network of China desks that we established to business, exerting pressure on costs and making it assist companies trading with and from mainland easier to manage and control.
consistent business models, reshaped global businesses and global functions, and removed layers We also helped many of our customers achieve of management to give staff greater responsibility, their personal ambitions.
For instance, in the UK we improve decision making and remove bureaucracy.
lent 3.8bn US$6.0bn to help more than 30,000 The number of full-time equivalent employees has first-time buyers purchase their own home in 2013. been reduced from 295,000 at the start of 2011 to 6 We also provided greater convenience for our In Retail Banking & Wealth Management retail customers by rolling out new mobile underlying profit before tax increased by US$2.4bn applications across 25 key markets, with 2.5 million as we made further progress in running-off the downloads in 2013.
Consumer Mortgage and Lending CML portfolio in North America, with the improvement in loan Through actions like these we have already impairment charges more than offsetting the decline replaced approximately a third of the reduction in in revenue.
Our Retail Banking & Wealth total revenue from disposals by growing our Management business excluding the US run-off business since the start of 2011. portfolio benefited from lower UK customer redress Although much progress has been made since charges and further sustainable cost savings, together 2011, we did not meet all of our targets by the end with revenue growth, mainly in Hong Kong and of 2013.
Our reported cost efficiency ratio of 59.6% Europe excluding the loss on sale of the HFC Bank and return on equity of 9.2% in 2013 were both secured lending portfolio.
outside our target ranges, in part affected by We continued to address legacy issues and continuing UK customer redress.
In addition, there is reposition our business model and client base in further work required to grow our incremental Global Private Banking, which in part resulted in a wealth revenues to achieve our target of US$3bn in reduction in underlying profit before tax of the medium term.
Performance Our capital position strengthened over the year.
Our core tier 1 ratio increased to 13.6% and our Our performance in 2013 was influenced by the estimated CRD IV end point basis common equity strategic measures that we have taken since the start tier 1 ratio increased to 10.9%.
We remain well of 2011. placed to meet expected future capital requirements, Reported profit before tax was US$22.6bn, and will continue to review the evolution of the US$1.9bn higher than 2012, and underlying profit regulatory environment.
before tax was US$21.6bn, US$6.3bn higher than We continued to demonstrate our ability to last year.
Underlying revenue grew 9% faster than generate capital to grow our business and to support costs in 2013. our progressive dividend policy, cementing our Underlying profit before tax was higher in three status as one of the highest dividend payers in the out of our four global businesses and all of our FTSE.
regions, with the exception of Latin America where underlying profit before tax fell.
Whilst our Strategy next phase performance in Latin America was affected by 2014 marks the beginning of the next phase of slower economic growth and inflationary pressures, strategy implementation.
This will be a continuation we made significant progress in repositioning our of the work that we began in 2011, albeit with new portfolios with a focus on our priority markets of goals informed by our experience of the past three Brazil, Mexico and Argentina.
In Commercial Banking, underlying profit At our investor update in May we reaffirmed before tax increased by 5%, driven by higher our return on equity target at 12-15% and modified revenues and lower costs.
Higher revenue reflected our cost-efficiency target for 2014-16 to mid-50s.
average balance sheet growth, partly offset by spread We also announced three strategic priorities for compression, together with higher lending fees and 2014-16, each of equal importance.
improved collaboration with our other global businesses.
These factors were partially offset by First, our strategy is designed to further grow higher loan impairment charges, notably in Latin the business and dividends.
We will continue to America.
recycle risk-weighted assets from lower return to higher return parts of the Group.
Our capital strategy In Global Banking and Markets, underlying aims to increase dividends progressively.
If we are profit before tax increased by 15%.
This was driven unable to deploy the remaining capital ourselves in by higher revenue and significantly lower loan such a way that it provides incremental value for our impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
shareholders, we may seek to neutralise the effect of The increase in revenue was, in part, underpinned by scrip dividends through share buy-backs, subject to a resilient performance in the majority of our regulatory capital requirements and shareholder customer-facing businesses.
We shall also continue to wind down and 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Group Chief Executives Review Value creation and long-term sustainability How we create value thus reduce the impact of our portfolio of legacy Outlook businesses.
We remain of the view that the GDP of mainland Second, we will continue to implement our China will grow by 7.4% this year, the UK by 2.6%, Global Standards programme which we believe will the USA by 2.5% and Western Europe by 1.2%.
increase the quality of the Groups earnings.
Global Although there has been a sharp sell-off in some Standards governs all of our activity and will drive emerging markets, both when tapering was first consistently high standards through HSBC globally.
talked of last June and more recently in January We have made substantial investment in risk and of this year, we see this as a reflection of specific compliance capabilities across all businesses and circumstances rather than a generalised threat.
The regions to strengthen our response to the ongoing countries most affected have two common themes, threat of financial crime, and will continue to do so.
large current account deficits and the uncertain This is the right thing to do, in line with our values, outcomes arising from elections within a year.
Other and we believe that it will also become a source of emerging markets such as Mexico have, by contrast, competitive advantage.
been upgraded by the rating agencies in the same Third, we aim to deliver a further US$2-3bn of period.
Overall, we remain optimistic about the sustainable savings by streamlining our processes longer-term prospects of emerging markets and and procedures without in any way compromising especially the opportunities for HSBC, which will our commitment to compliance and Global arise from the anticipated material expansion in Standards.
There remains considerable scope within South-South trade and capital flows.
In the short the business to globalise and simplify many of our term, we stress the importance of differentiating operations and practices.
within and between individual countries within the generic category of emerging markets.
Nevertheless, These priorities are essential to realising our we anticipate greater volatility in 2014 and choppy vision of establishing HSBC as the worlds leading markets as adjustments are made to changing international bank.
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive 24 February 2014 8
