British American Tobacco 06 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Chief Executives overview Our strategy is delivering today and I firmly believe it will continue to deliver long-term value to shareholders and a wide group of stakeholders.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive Were delivering today and investing in tomorrow Weve achieved another year of strong results British American Tobacco had another very good year in 2013, again The Groups strong performance in 2013 was achieved against a meeting or exceeding our financial metrics.
backdrop of adverse exchange rate movements, lower industry volume and instability in some parts of the world.
Revenue and market share continued to grow.
Together our Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall At constant rates of exchange, revenue was up by 4% and adjusted increased share and volume.
profit from operations was up by 7%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was up by 6% at current rates or 10% at constant rates It was a challenging year for our people globally, but they of exchange.
responded with the enterprise and commitment I have come to expect.
We adapted to changes in our business environment, faced Our adjusted operating margin improved significantly by some tough trading conditions and embraced a range of new 100basispoints, at the top end of our guidance of an increase opportunities, in both new product categories and new markets.
of 50 to 100 basis points each year.
This was achieved thanks to We invested further in our existing key high growth markets, too.
efforts right across our global organisation to address our cost base, to standardise our systems and deliver productivity savings We also adopted a new vision in 2013, along with an enhanced year on year.
A strong price mix of 7% has also contributed to this strategy that better reflects the evolving needs of our consumers.
This strategy is enabling us to respond even more rapidly to the opportunities and challenges we believe are important to a 21st Our return on capital employed ROCE has also improved century tobacco company committed to investing in its future.
considerably over the past few years.
We have seen a steady increase in ROCE from 23% in 2009 to 31% in 2013, demonstrating that Were committed to delivering value ourinvestments are delivering growth.
Our new vision is to be the worlds best at satisfying consumer Were growing market share moments in tobacco and beyond.
Our ambition remains to lead the global tobacco industry.
We will do this by keeping the In 2013 we successfully grew our market share in our key markets consumer at the heart of our business and focusing on delivering by 20 basis points, driven by the success of our GDBs, which were todays results as well as investing in our long-term success.
Our share of the premium segment also grew by 80 basis points.
However, cigarette volume from subsidiaries was I am as confident as ever in the growth of our tobacco business.
lower by 2.7%, mainly as a result of industry declines.
Pricing remains good and despite the industry volume decline, the global cigarette market is growing in value.
New investments Our international brands grew volume by 2.1%, of which our GDBs will also contribute to future growth, such as our joint operation grew by 1.9%.
Dunhill volume was up by 9.7% and Pall Mall grew with subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation, which by 4.4%.
Kents was 2.9% lower while Lucky Strike volume was commenced operations during 2013. down by 6.5%.
Collectively, our GDBs now account for 35% of ourtotal volume.
There are also opportunities in nicotine-based products.
We launched Vype, our first electronic cigarette, in the UK in 2013, From 2014, we have added Rothmans to our portfolio of GDBs, making us the first international tobacco business to enter this recognising the brands strategic value to the Group.
Other tobacco products also performed very well, particularly Fine Our strategy is delivering today and I firmly believe it will continue Cut tobacco, which was up 1.3% in Western Europe, driven by the to deliver long-term value to shareholders and a wide group continued success of Pall Mall and Lucky Strike in this category.
British American Tobacco 07 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Were focusing on the consumer We look to the future with confidence Our success is down to our determination that the consumer should Challenges persist in 2014.
Economic recovery is still fragile, be at the centre of everything we do.
We have greatly improved our particularly across southern Europe.
However, we have shown a understanding of consumers in the past few years, building on what consistent ability to improve our operating margin and grow market was already a great strength of our business.
This is vital in helping share.
The pricing environment also remains good.
us address consumers evolving needs and concerns.
We have a great brand portfolio, market-leading innovations and We want to do this in tobacco and beyond, addressing the an outstanding range of high-quality products.
We maintain our emerging category we see in nicotine products.
Tobacco remains firm commitment to invest in key growth markets and new product our core business and will continue to drive growth in the future.
Our scientific research into harm reduction, for instance, However, the consumer demand for next-generation products offers is helping us develop next-generation tobacco products, such as us new growth opportunities in which to flex the organisations heat-not-burn, and nicotine products, like e-cigarettes.
In short, we have the expertise, the talented people and the global We support sound regulation based on robust evidence reach to succeed.
Consumers have always been core to our success.
We will continue to meet their needs by providing them with the We support sound regulation backed by robust evidence and superior and innovative products they want.
We have a compelling thorough research that shows it will help achieve the objective of strategy and proven capabilities in place to make this happen.
I look reducing the harm resulting from tobacco use.
However, measures forward to a gradually improving economic environment and BAT is such as excessive excise increases on tobacco products and plain well positioned to take advantage of this when it comes.
packaging do more to disrupt orderly markets and little to further their intended aims.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive In fact, they create ideal conditions for counterfeiters and smugglers to thrive.
We are committed to leading our industry and providing a template for others by engaging openly on regulatory issues, while also working with global partners to fight the illegal tobacco trade.
Global Drive Brand 2013 performance Dunhill cigarettes sold Kent cigarettes sold Lucky Strike cigarettes sold Pall Mall cigarettes sold billions billions billions billions 54 65 31 87 9.7% 2.9% 6.5% 4.4% Rothmans From 2014, we have added Rothmans to our portfolio of GDBs.
In 2013, we sold 26 billion Rothmans cigarettes.
