Business review Group CEOs review Group Chief Executive Officers review of the year Michael Spencer This has been the toughest trading Group Chief Executive Officer environment in my nearly 40-year career in the wholesale financial markets.
ICAPs performance during 2012 13 reects these extraordinarily difficult market conditions but also the diversity and resilience of the Group we have built.
The wholesale financial markets are facing a number of cyclical The Eurozone continues to present the most significant threat to and structural challenges.
Against this backdrop we have kept our the global economy, although policy initiatives have lessened the risk focus.
While taking a tough stance on costs we are managing and of a major crisis.
re-engineering the business for the long term, delivering on our Against this backdrop, interest rates in many advanced economies strategic goals and priorities.
We continue to invest, innovate and have remained at, or close to, their historic lows and quantitative adapt to ensure the business will thrive in the new financial landscape easing, in its various forms, has been widely employed.
that is being shaped by regulatory reform.
With these changes come new opportunities for ICAP.
Our business has and will continue to Changing market landscape evolve.
We have a diversied business, global reach and proven ability As an industry leader, ICAP continues to benefit from greater scale to respond to changing customer needs.
ICAP remains a profitable and diversity than many of our competitors.
Our perspective helps and very cash generative business with a strong balance sheet.
Today inform regulators and policy makers as they implement reform.
we are a more efficient and collaborative business than a year ago.
The competitive landscape in which we operate is changing.
This will stand us in good stead for the future.
Regulation is redening certain aspects of our business and our customers needs.
As capital requirements drive banks to deleverage Macroeconomic context and standardised derivatives are pushed towards central clearing, the During the past year, the growth in global trade has decelerated markets are developing in response, even though the final shape of signicantly as a result of private sector deleveraging and some aspects of regulatory reform remains uncertain.
While US economic growth has been resilient and Japan has experienced some modest recovery, in China and Europe there has been a marked slowdown, with many peripheral Eurozone economies experiencing deepening recession.
ICAP plc 04 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information ICAP is well positioned to take advantage of these changes.
The Financial performance regulatory push towards electronic trading plays to our strengths and For the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group reported revenue provides us with new opportunities for growth.
We have invested of 1,472 million, 12% below the prior year.
Trading activity across all our businesses, in people, technology and product across all asset classes was negatively impacted by a combination innovation, maintaining our competitive advantage.
In our newly of factors including the depressed global economy, a low interest created Global Broking business formed by amalgamating the three rate environment and regulatory uncertainty.
regionally-managed voice broking businesses every asset class has electronic capability and we are already the worlds leading provider Group net operating expenses of 1,164 million were 11% lower of electronic platforms for the trading of spot FX and xed income.
In response to the challenging market We believe there are significant opportunities to expand further our conditions, a comprehensive review of the cost base was undertaken.
electronic offering and plan to leverage our existing platforms and This initially identied total cost savings of 50 million for the year, connectivity to meet the needs of our evolving customer base.
annualised at 60 million, from a reduction in overall headcount, renegotiation of broker contracts and compensation rates and the Last year saw the conversion of swaps into futures contracts in consolidation and rationalisation of infrastructure support.
Excellent the US energy market.
While we anticipate that there may be further progress was made and the initial targets were exceeded with futurisation in certain asset classes, we believe there will be a strong total cost savings of 60 million delivered during the year, annualised and continued demand for swaps, particularly in rates, which provide at 80 million 20 million higher than initial estimates.
The cost the customised hedging solutions that our customers want and need.
saving initiatives have improved the ongoing flexibility of the cost base.
As a leading provider of post trade and risk mitigation services, The additional annualised cost savings of 20 million are expected to the regulatory focus on better risk management will also benefit be reinvested in a number of initiatives across the business.
We are seeing increasing demand for our post trade continued to invest for future growth including the development of services and expect this to continue as rms seek to comply with EBS Direct, expansion by Traiana into new products and asset classes new regulatory requirements.
and ongoing product innovation within TriOptima.
A stronger ICAP By the year end the number of employees had declined from We intend to build on our market leading positions and leverage 5,123 to 4,976.
The overall net reduction of 147 employees our assets to deliver shareholder value.
We have made significant reects the departure of 344 voice brokers partly offset by changes to our Group structure, our products and our services to 197 new hires principally in high growth areas.
ensure we emerge from this market downturn in a strong position.
The Group reported an operating profit of 308 million, down In September, we created a new Global Broking division under the 17% on the prior year.
The Groups operating profit margin for the leadership of David Casterton.
We previously operated our broking year ended 31 March 2013 decreased to 21%.
In the year ended business on a regional basis in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacic.
31 March 2013, the proportion of Group operating profit This reorganisation mirrors the way we manage our electronic generated from Global Broking, Electronic Markets and Post Trade markets and post trade businesses and enables us to execute Risk and Information was 34%, 37% and 29% respectively.
a global broking strategy and better serve our customers.
profit before tax of 284 million was down 20% on the prior EBS, our market leading electronic spot FX platform, has been year.
profit before tax on a statutory basis fell by 151 million strengthened and repositioned under the leadership of its new to 66 million reecting the decline in operating profit and the Chief Executive Officer, Gil Mandelzis.
Following a wide-ranging recognition of 60 million of exceptional costs of which 30 million review of the business and extensive consultation with customers, was incurred in delivering the cost saving programme.
EBS announced new dealing rules in July.
These new rules promote greater transparency, fairness and executable liquidity for Financial summary all participants.
This was the beginning of a set of enhancements for Year ended Year ended EBS which continued throughout the year, including a move away 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Change m m % from decimalisation in some currency pairs.
These changes have been Revenue 1,472 1,681 12 well received by our customers.
Operating profit 308 372 17 In November 2012, we announced our intention to launch EBS Direct, profit before tax 284 354 20 a new relationship-based disclosed liquidity service which gives users the choice of trading in the main markets or obtaining quotes from profit before tax statutory 66 217 70 their relationship banks.
Change pence pence % EPS adjusted basic 33.0 40.1 18 EPS basic 6.7 21.1 68 Before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 Statutory profit for the period after acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Read more on our financial results on page 20 Adjusted basis EPS is based on earnings before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 05 Business review Group CEOs review continued Our award-winning trading platform, i-Swap, which allows brokers Both ReMatch and Reset launched new products, including a new cross to trade euro IRS electronically, has seen trading activity grow currency basis service from Reset and a new product to help traders signicantly since its launch in September 2010.
In February, we manage risk in the index market from ReMatch.
launched i-Swap in the US in anticipation of the publication of the final Traiana is a key infrastructure provider within the global FX industry.
rules for SEFs under the Dodd-Frank Act.
Today around a third of all Eight of its customers have invested in approximately 13% of the ICAPs 130 year euro IRS trades are executed through i-Swap and company aligning our interests and solidifying our partnership with we aim to replicate this success in US dollars and other currencies.
the leading players in the industry.
As partners they will assist us in In June we acquired Plus Stock Exchange plc, one of only six RIEs developing new initiatives as Traiana expands into other asset classes.
It was relaunched in October as ISDX.
The core offering Traianas Harmony network, which has become an integral part of for ISDX is its Growth Market which is dedicated to helping FX transaction processing, is now connected to nine of the top ten entrepreneurial companies access equity capital to finance their futures brokers, positioning it well to expand further its services into businesses.
ICAP is well positioned to leverage ISDXs exchange status that asset class.
to offer new products and solutions for its customers including, in Our information services division has an unrivalled portfolio of time, listed derivatives.
authoritative and independent OTC data services.
We increased our We have continued to develop our risk mitigation businesses which are product offering by 15% this year to incorporate new and innovative now a core and embedded part of our customers processes and data solutions as the market demands greater transparency and infrastructure.
During the year TriOptima completed the largest triReduce accuracy.
These new products include a series of trade-backed, compression cycle in Japanese yen IRS and its first portfolio compression volume-weighted indices based on real market transactions that cycle at the Singapore Exchange.
we have launched with partners including RepoFunds Rate for the European repo market and the Tankard Index for European natural gas.
TriOptima continues to innovate and provide its customers with new solutions.
triBalance, which is expected to be launched towards the We continue to co-operate with international regulators as they further end of 2013, is a new service designed to reduce systemic risk and investigate the banks that set Libor and other international benchmarks.
Since not all trades by banks ICAP clearly does not have any direct role in the setting of Libor nor are eligible for clearing, triBalance will provide a solution for rms to does it profit from the level at which it is set.
The Company is aware, manage bilateral risk for their uncleared portfolios.
TriOptima is also however, that one of its Global Broking entities is under investigation.
working with customers to pilot a new counterparty credit risk Any allegation of wrongdoing by any of our employees is an extremely analytics service for OTC derivatives called triQuantify.
serious matter for us, and one that we continue to investigate.
It is announced EBS Direct, a relationship-based platform that allows Key developments users to choose the counterparties they trade with and provides This year we have demonstrated that we have the appetite and the tailored pricing ability to innovate, invest and develop new products and services.
acquired ClientKnowledge, a leading liquidity optimisation advisory Global Broking rm specialising in FX creation of Global Broking division enabling the Group to execute Acquisition and launch of ISDX a global strategy for all broking services one of only six RIEs in the UK, the others being LSE, LIFFE, LME, acquisition of CTI Shipbrokers India Pvt ICE and BATS Chi-X Europe expansion of global financial futures and options team aim to expand our business in the capital-raising market space and look for opportunities to leverage ICAPs derivatives expertise Electronic Markets Launch of i-Swap in the US Transformation of EBS replicating the successful electronic euro IRS trading platform management structure strengthened in US dollars undertook an extensive customer consultation and business review published new dealing rules unveiled significant changes to the EBS Market platform, including a move away from decimalisation in most currency pairs ICAP plc 06 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information essential that there is confidence in financial markets and we support Interim dividends are calculated as 30% of the prior years full-year the objectives of regulators and market participants themselves as dividend.
This approach is expected to continue for the 2013 14 they seek to restore trust.
Charity Day Outlook We believe it is important that we make a positive contribution to the The new financial year has started encouragingly with an upturn in communities in which we operate.
On one day each year all of our trading activity seen in April.
Market conditions, however, remain revenue and brokers commissions are donated to charity.
In the short term, this situation is unlikely 5 December 2012 we celebrated ICAPs 20th Charity Day.
This year to change until greater confidence in the markets is re-established we raised 11 million, bringing the cumulative total that we have raised and there is more clarity around regulatory reform.
ICAP is one of in the past 20 years to more than 100 million benefiting 1,400 charities the worlds leading financial market operators and our platforms around the world.
This momentous milestone would not have been and services are central to the daily needs of the wholesale financial possible without the incredible and ongoing support of our customers, markets.
We are working closely with our customers to ensure we suppliers and employees.
I am extremely proud of what we have been can take full advantage of the evolving market landscape and the able to achieve together and genuinely believe it reects the culture improvement in financial markets when it comes.
and spirit of the Company more accurately than anything else.
We continue to drive efficiencies within the organisation and improve the ongoing exibility of the cost base.
That said, investment for Dividend future growth remains a key priority, nanced by the strong cash The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share.
The generation of the business and the delivery of cost savings.
This reects the I would like to take this opportunity to thank Doug Rhoten who has Groups continuing ability to fund this level of dividend as a result of its strong cash generation and the boards confidence in the mediumdecided to retire after 14 years of service to ICAP.
Doug has made an enormous contribution to ICAPs development, especially to our North term prospects for the business.
He has been a longstanding and valuable member The final dividend is lower than the prior year of 16.0p which is simply of our senior executive team and we wish him well for the future.
a result of this years interim dividend being slightly higher, at 6.6p Finally, I would also like to thank every ICAP employee for their focus, compared with 6.0p.
The full-year dividend per share of 22.0p is covered 1.5 times 2011 12 1.8 times by adjusted basic EPS of hard work and commitment.
It has not been an easy year for any of us and I have, as always, been impressed by their professionalism.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 19 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on 28 June 2013.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 26 June 2013.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Post Trade Risk and Information a joint company credit rating service with Rapid Ratings, an alternative rating, research and analytics rm.
Bringing together Customer investment in Traiana two independent sources of market-leading information, this eight of its customers invested in approximately 13% of the product delivers a unique view of the credit derivatives market company aligning our interests and solidifying our partnership with hazard rates and survival probabilities added to CDS pricing service the leading players in the FX industry to create an expanded version of this end-of-day product which TriOptima risk elimination and clearing enables customers to manage issuer credit risk efficiently completed its first portfolio compression cycle at the Singapore ICAP Container Forward Freight Agreements, a risk management Exchange tool that enables third party logistics and beneficial cargo owners completed the largest ever triReduce compression cycle in to x their containerised freight cash ows up to two years Japanese yen IRS 271.6 trillion $3 trillion in cleared in advance IRS notional principal outstandings executed benchmark pricing from Reset, a leading global risk Extended product offering from ICAP Information Services mitigation service enabling banks and their traders to transact a RepoFunds Rate, launched with BrokerTec and MTS, is the first variety of interest rate derivatives to offset, remove or reduce the index to reect the effective cost of secured funding in key outstanding reset or xing risk from their trading portfolios Eurozone countries Tankard, a series of indices for UK and European natural gas hubs, is calculated from trades arranged by ICAP, Marex Spectron and Tullett Prebon.
The trades are physically-settled natural gas forwards, transacted between utilities, natural gas producers, hedge funds, banks and trading houses ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 07
