Chief exeCutives review cHIEF EXEcuTIvES REvIEw The year was characterised by two extremely different will deliver significant benefits to our ranking on search six-month periods.
In the first half financial markets were engines, as well as improving our buying power for paid very dull, presenting our clients with fewer opportunities search, thereby enhancing our client acquisition rates.
In the second half, while volatility Technology is a key competitive differentiator and we remained low, a succession of significant news events continue to invest heavily in this area, further developing produced more trading opportunities for our clients.
These our core platforms, both web-based and mobile.
The included the US fiscal cliff negotiations, a sustained period proportion of client transactions placed using our mobile of rising equity markets, a crash in the price of gold, the apps is increasing steadily, and in the last few weeks of Cyprus bail-in and a shift in monetary policy in Japan.
the year approached 30% of all client trades.
We expect I am pleased with how the business responded in both ongoing growth in the use of mobile platforms, and we periods.
In the first half our cost base flexed downwards continue to develop our apps to ensure that they remain naturally, particularly as a result of reduced employee at the forefront of mobile trading and provide our clients variable compensation, and we chose to slow down our with all the features and tools necessary to trade with us.
planned investment and trim our cost base.
In the second half we captured the upside from the increased trading Alongside our core platforms we also offer a number levels through our extremely robust trading platform and of platforms which cater for clients with specific trading high-quality execution.
As a result, despite the challenging requirements.
For some time we have had a direct market conditions and a fall in revenue for the year as a whole, we access DMA platform, L2, for our most advanced sharewere able to deliver modest growth in profit and earnings.
During the coming year we will pilot the Our profit before tax grew by 3.5% to 192.2 million and ability for clients to trade and hold cash equities alongside our diluted EPS increased by 3.4% to 38.80 pence.
equity CFDs within this platform.
If this pilot is successful we would expect to add this functionality to our core A full review of the financial performance of the business during platforms in the following financial year.
the year is set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
We are already the largest retail forex provider in a number BuSINESS DEvEloPmENTS of our markets, but our market lead is not as decisive as Over the last couple of years we have increasingly focused it is for some other products.
This may in part reflect that IG on active retail traders individuals who have the until recently we have not had a specialist forex trading knowledge and desire to trade the financial markets on platform.
One of the most popular trading platforms for a regular basis.
During this year we undertook a major retail forex traders is MetaTrader 4 and we have recently project to relaunch our main brands as IG.
This ensures that completed the necessary development work to connect our websites, platforms, advertising and all of our other this to our pricing, execution and back office systems.
manifestations are consistent worldwide, and represent We are currently offering MetaTrader 4 to a pilot group more accurately the scale of our business and its stature of clients before making it generally available in the as the standard bearer for our industry.
As part of this coming months.
This platform has a large and loyal user we acquired a number of domain names, including base around the world, who we believe will welcome the IG.
com and a wide range of local IG domains, such as opportunity to trade forex with IG using this platform.
Shortly after the year-end we launched I am optimistic that we will see incremental client gains IG.
This website has a number of over the coming years as a result of offering MetaTrader 4. new features for both current and prospective clients.
We Early in the financial year we received the unwelcome news have consolidated spread betting and CFDs into a single that PFG Best, the only broker connected to Nadex, our US website, and for the first time our clients are now able to regulated exchange, was going into bankruptcy.
Towards access multiple accounts, and hence multiple products the end of the year we purchased PFGs software from the and platforms, from a single login.
com also makes our Trustee in Bankruptcy.
This software includes a full suite of market insight research content available to non-clients.
front, middle and back office components.
Over the next few months we will be migrating all of our websites to IG.
com, consolidating our online traffic worldwide on a single domain.
We believe that this 08 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 09 Chief exeCutives review cHIEF EXEcuTIvES REvIEw continued We are currently developing this into Nadex Connect, an offices, with revenue in the second half up 36% and 29% largest beneficiary of switching between providers within we will continue to see a flow of mixed economic data, out of the box offering, providing a complete software respectively.
Together these two offices now generate our industry.
All of this, I believe, bodes well for continued providing continuing trading opportunities for our clients.
solution for brokers to offer Nadex products.
This technology almost the same level of revenue as Australia, which grew at gains in market share in our main markets.
Over the longer term, the Group should benefit as constraint was a significant barrier to opening up this a more modest 12% in the second half of the year.
economic conditions improve, providing an easier intermediated distribution channel.
Meanwhile, we have Given these relative growth rates, Germany and Singapore, REGulATIoN backdrop against which to recruit new clients.
Additionally, seen promising growth in the number of members trading and the regions in which they sit, are likely to become There remains uncertainty about the impact that a when interest rates eventually start to rise again, the on the Nadex exchange, albeit from a low base, as a result increasingly important drivers of overall revenue growth for European Financial Transaction Tax FTT might have on interest that we earn on client money, which is currently in of focusing on direct retail marketing.
Over the last few the Group over the coming years.
Both of these offices were our business.
Over the last couple of months it has become decline, has the potential to once again become a more weeks we have also seen increasing regulatory action established approximately seven years ago and the fact that increasingly clear that progress on introducing this tax significant contributor to our profitability.
against over-the-counter OTC binary option providers they continue to grow strongly is promising for the longis likely to be quite slow, and that there is no consensus who have been offering these products illegally in the US.
term prospects of our more recently established offices.
among the participating member states on the form any ouTlook Both the US Commodities Futures Trading Commission tax should take.
It appears increasingly likely that any tax Finally, we are being increasingly successful at recruiting In the coming year we face relatively benign comparatives CFTC and the US Securities and Exchange Commission eventually introduced could be of a more limited scope, clients from countries in the world where we do not for the first two quarters, and then increasingly challenging SEC have made it clear that it is only legal for a US perhaps only applying to cash equities in a similar way to have a local office, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.
comparatives for the final two quarters of the year.
resident to trade binaries on a regulated exchange such as the current unilateral French FTT.
The tax in France has Although our ability to undertake targeted marketing is Trading to this point in the 2014 year has been in line with Nadex.
Nadex remains a long-term project, and I do not no adverse impact on our business as it does not apply to limited, a growing number of clients are finding us online expectations, with a strong June followed by a quieter underestimate the challenges of developing a substantial our transactions with our clients or those we carry out to and the IG.
com domain will further help this.
We are also July as we head into holiday season in the Northern business in a market as large and competitive as the United hedge our residual risk.
In Italy, a complex FTT was due introducing a number of changes which will make it easier Hemisphere.
Following the reduction in our operating States.
However, we have made good progress over the to be introduced in two stages, with the second stage on for clients in these countries to open accounts with us and costs in 2013, we plan for these to rise in 2014.
The primary last year and I am increasingly optimistic that Nadex can 1 July.
The first stage, which applies only to cash equities, then to fund and trade through those accounts.
drivers of this increase are the resetting of employee reach profitability within a reasonable timeframe.
This will came into force in March.
Introduction of the second stage, variable compensation into the new financial year, the be an important milestone in establishing the long-term applicable to derivatives, has been deferred.
The first stage A FocuSED APPRoAcH To impact of inflation on overall remuneration, an assumed prospects of our US business.
necessitated some changes to our pricing, but it is not yet clIENT SERvIcE increase in regulatory fees and additional investment in clear what impact the second stage may have, if and when Our aim is to deliver the best possible trading experience growing the business.
INTERNATIoNAl GRowTH it is eventually introduced.
for active traders and to provide the best possible range of International expansion remains a key part of our strategy.
We have made considerable progress over the last year with tools to support their trading activities.
We give our largest In Japan, new rules are being introduced on binaries, which There are several parts to this.
our rebranding, the launch of IG.
com and the development and most valuable clients a very personalised service, while accounted for approximately 25% of the revenue from our of our platform offering.
Our additional investment in the Firstly, we continue to seek to establish new offices in ensuring that all of our clients enjoy the highest standards Japanese office in the year.
On the one hand these new next financial year will focus on specific initiatives aimed at countries where we do not currently have a presence, of pricing, execution and client service.
Our focus on active regulations provide a beneficial shift in the competitive further enhancing the Groups offerings for active traders, and during the year we opened new offices in Ireland and retail traders means that we expect to recruit fewer new landscape, because they outlaw forms of binary which are including introducing MetaTrader 4, development of our Norway.
This is a driver of longer-term growth and does, of clients than we have in the past, but we also expect these offered by the majority of our competitors in Japan, but mobile platforms, and further geographic expansion.
course, require expenditure in advance of any new office clients will be on average of higher value.
On the other hand, the new rules are likely to beginning to generate revenue.
It can also take several years is already one of the drivers of the increase in revenue per make it significantly harder to sign up new binary clients, This is a business in which we need to continue to invest for new offices to reach the profitability levels of our existing client of 6% for the year within our established markets.
as they introduce a detailed test which new clients must for the longer term.
Our business is highly cash generative offices.
We are currently at varying stages of discussion with pass before being permitted to trade the products.
Further and has a strong balance sheet, giving us significant We have introduced a rolling survey of our clients in all of regulators in three new jurisdictions that have the potential clarity is still required around the implementation of these competitive advantage and a high level of resilience.
The our markets to enable us to continually monitor satisfaction to contribute to our growth outside the UK and Europe.
rules, but we currently anticipate they will come into force investments we will make in the coming year should leave levels.
In addition, independent market research gives These discussions may or may not ultimately result in us towards the end of this calendar year.
us well placed for future growth.
I am confident in the us annual data on satisfaction levels and Net Promoter being able to operate in all these countries.
prospects for the business going forward.
Scores NPS for us and our competitors across our five THE EcoNomIc BAckDRoP Secondly, I believe that there remains very significant largest markets.
We saw significant improvements in our There is considerable economic stress in the majority of growth potential from the offices we have established already strong NPS in most of these markets and in all the countries in which we operate and the global economic over the last seven years.
Many of the markets in which we cases we enjoy a score substantially above the industry outlook remains uncertain.
This undoubtedly has an impact operate are still at an early stage in their development, are average.
NPS is a widely recognised measure of customer on our industry and has impacted our ability to recruit new small relative to our established businesses in the UK and loyalty, with a high score normally associated with strong, clients.
More positively, the flow of economic news has Australia, and have spent most of their early years battling sustainable long-term revenue growth.
Word of mouth Tim Howkins provided a wealth of trading opportunities for our installed poor macro-economic conditions.
We continue to see recommendation remains a major source of new clients, Chief Executive client base.
In the short to medium term I believe that 1 strong growth rates from our German and Singaporean and independent research indicates that we are the 23 July 2013 1 All market share data has been provided by Investment Trends Limited refer to the Investor Resources section for details 10 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 11
