4 Our business: Chairmans and Chief Executives statement This has led to aburst of activity in the more liquid Overview high yield bond market which offers a source of The past year has been one of great strategic financing to larger companies.
significance at ICG as we continue to evolve There is a sharp contrast in conditions in the into aglobal asset manager with the products loan market.
The uS collateralised loan obligations and expertise to satisfy todays yield conscious ClO market had high levels of issuance both in investors, and to take advantage of the structural 2012 and in the first months of 2013.
This additional shift in our markets towards direct lending.
capital has led to reduced returns for investors, but We have been successfully implementing risk standards have been maintained.
There are these changes against abackdrop of ongoing signs of ClO activity in Europe, but more stringent challenges to the macroeconomic environment.
regulatory constraints have considerably slowed the return of the debt ClOs such that the syndicated Opportunities in a loan market, which finances larger transactions,  stillhas a relatively subdued level of activity.
Global budgetary constraints have left many This inflow of capital has, to date, had little governments and central banks with just one single effecton the midmarket.
In both European corporate weapon in their armoury to address the current andreal estate lending activities, traditional lenders, economic slowdown.
In a move reminiscent of mainly banks, remain constrained and unwilling previous financial crises, the major central banks toengage actively.
Whilst new players are slowly have flooded the markets with liquidity and have emerging to take advantage of the lending gap, allowed more risky assets to be used as collateral.
conditions and potential yields remain attractive.
Recent developments in the uS and Japan have ICG is now geared to take full advantage of the continued that trend.
renewed activity in the debt markets by continuing With historically low interest rates driving yields toexpand our network and exploit our strengths: on traditional assets to very low levels, investors 12.9bn local knowledge and lending skills.
However, we have turned to higher yielding assets with good aremindful that global instability and loose monetary ASSETS uNDER downside protection.
Debt markets have therefore policies have led to major economic slowdowns mANAGEmENT attracted renewed appetite from pension funds, inthe past.
We remain extremely vigilant for any insurance companies and other institutions.
signofincreased instability or distorted risk return characteristics and will maintain ourinvestment discipline at all times.
Justin Dowley Christophe Evain Chairman Chief Executive Officer Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 5 in realisations and exits in the next 12 months.
Strong year for fundraising and investing Since our year end, we have already seen the The global search for higher yielding assets has repayment ofthe medi Partenaires PIK investment, contributed to our success in attracting new capital 142.6m our largest individual asset, and the sale of our into our funds.
We raised a record volume of third PROFIT BEFORE Allflexinvestment, our second largest individual asset, party money, 2.3bn, in a single financial year.
TAx which will realise a capital gain of 106m on completion.
Thesefunds were raised across a number of products We expect further realisations during the year.
with a more geographical and institutionally diverse The investment portfolio remains broadly investor base than previously achieved.
This is not resilientdespite the continuing economic uncertainty only a reflection of the attractiveness of our offering in Europe.
However, our performance in the year has and track record, but demonstrates the benefit of been held back by a higher than expected level theinvestment in our own distribution capabilities ofprovisions in the first half, predominantly due over the past two years.
tomaterial provisions against two large assets.
Our flagship ICG Europe Fund V closed in Thesecond half saw a low level of net provisions, December 2012, at its maximum size of 2.5bn, inpart due to writebacks on five assets which ofwhich 0.5bn was contributed by our Investment areperforming strongly.
This was well above our target of 2.0bn Excluding single name events, like those in and the largest fund of its kind raised since 2007. thefirst half, and the outcome of restructurings Inaddition, in January 2013 ICG longbow which are inherently difficult to forecast, we expect broadened its product offering by raising a 105m provisions to remain in line with our long term uK property senior debt fund quoted on the london average for the foreseeable future.
This momentum has continued The balance sheet equity portfolio valuation with our next ICG longbow mezzanine fund increased by 118.6m during the year, of which expected to close at its maximum permitted size 58.9m has been taken through the current year of 700m and our Senior Debt Partners fund having income statement, primarily driven by the recent a first close.
A further close is expected in the first strength of the equity market.
half of the new financial year.
Our local investment teams have thrived Results in line with expectations incomplex and challenging macroeconomic andrefinanced balance sheet environment and are still able to identify investment The low level of realisations and increased provisions opportunities with attractive returns in order to means that the adjusted Group profit before tax was deploythe increased level of funds we are managing.
All of our funds are investing on target and in total We have continued to refresh the funding of our wedeployed 782m on behalf of our mezzanine balance sheet during the year, extending 640m funds and balance sheet in the year, wellin excess of facilities for a further three years.
In addition, we ofthe 406m deployed in the year to31 march 2012. raised 80m with a second retail bond and 11m inprivate placements.
Since the year end we have Continuing to manage portfolio raised a further uS$150m from private placements to maximise value and signed 100m of new facilities maturing in 2016, The lack of available senior debt in the market in which include a 67m rollover of an existing facility the early part of the financial year and the continuing and a new banking relationship.
We will continue valuation gap between sellers and buyers has resulted to seek to diversify our sources of debt funding and in a year of low realisations and realised capital gains.
reduce our reliance on our largest lenders over the However, since the turn of the calendar year we have medium term.
seen more liquidity in the market and, should this remain, we expect that this will result in an increase 6 Our business: Chairmans and Chief Executives statement continued Theexisting scrip dividend alternative is being Outlook discontinued and, in its place, shareholders will be We are in a strong growth phase and we are building offered a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP for the the infrastructure and developing the products that Fy14 interim dividend.
If approved at the AGm, the will enable us to evolve into a global alternative asset dividend will be paid on 24 July 2013 to shareholders manager with enhanced levels of client service.
Wehave invested to ensure that we are a leading participant in the structural shift towards greater Employees, new hires and the Board levels of non bank lending.
Our people are critical to the business achieving its Our product pipeline is strong which, along with strategic objectives and we thank them wholeheartedly our dedicated global distribution team, is underpinning for the tremendous efforts they have made during the the momentum in our fundraising.
Without their dedication we would well advanced for the launch of adedicated uS not have been able to raise and invest our funds, and product which will further broaden the geographical manage our assets successfully.
We have made significant progress in strategic Since the year end we have seen positive signs global hiring and building our marketing and client for realisations with the repayment of our investment relations team.
Significantly we now have a global in mdi Partenaires and the agreement to sell our distribution team in place headed by Andreas investment in Allflex.
A number of other processes mondovits who joined ICG from uBS and our North are ongoing as sponsors look to exit their older American team is headed by Salvatore Gentile who assets.
Therefore, subject to the economic backdrop previously worked for Blackstone.
In total we have remaining favourable, this could be a year of high added 13% to our headcount as we position ICG realisations and refinancings.
as a truly global alternative asset manager.
We remain focused on managing our portfolio, We also take this opportunity to welcome with a particular focus on a small number of assets formally Kim Wahl and lindsey mcmurray who joined which are undergoing restructuring.
We are continuing the Board as Non Executive Directors during the year to maintain our investment discipline and our and are already making a strong contribution.
Dividends The Board continues to review cash core income over a rolling three year period when considering the dividend.
Despite the low level of realisations impacting cash core income in the year, the prior year was a good year for realisations and since our year end there has been an increase in realisations, Christophe Evain Justin Dowley including the Groups two largest assets.
This together Chief Executive Officer Chairman with the momentum within the Fund management business, has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 13.7p per share, making a total of 20.0p per share for the year, up 5% on last year.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 7 How we are investing Arundel Street, Portsmouth A diverse income profile Our role We enabled the borrower to refinance a multi let retail property in the centre of Portsmouth.
On a tight timescale, we provided a 10.5m whole loan, representing the total debt of the asset, for a period of six years.
Our rationale The property is made up of eight retail units which provide a steady income stream.
We view the loan principal and exit fee as highly secure due to conservative leverage Case against current valuation, with strong growth potential study from a forthcoming contracted uplift in rental income.
700m COmmITTED By THE INVESTmENT ICG Longbow COmPANy: 50m Deep property expertise Investment strategy ICG longbow is a specialist investment manager focused on uK commercial real estate debt.
The management team has an average of 25 years of experience in property, lending and investment management.
242m ICG longbow has a strong track record in COmmITTED By THE senior, mezzanine and whole loans, focusing INVESTmENT on supporting acquisitions and recapitalisations COmPANy: 50m where there is a clear value creation plan and the sponsor has material cash equity at risk.
104.6m Its second fund of 242m invested, ICG longbow COmmITTED is in the process of investing its 105m listed By THE INVESTmENT senior debt fund and is currently raising its third COmPANy: fund, focused on newly originated first charge 10m whole loans and mezzanine debt, which has amaximum size of 700m.
Portfolio managers: Kevin Cooper and martin Wheeler ICG lONGBOW FuND II SEPTEmBER 2011 ICG lONGBOW SENIOR SECuRED uK PROPERTy DEBT INVESTmENTS lImITED JANuARy 2013 ICG lONGBOW FuND III mAy 2013 In investment phase
