Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Chief Executive Officers statement At Sky, our success is rooted in three core strengths: content, technology and customers.
We have built these capabilities over many years and we believe that the unique way in which we have brought them together has been fundamental to our growth.
While other companies may be strong in one of these areas or seek to extend into another, Sky uses its understanding of customers to provide great content and innovative technology in a way that competitors are unable to match.
For us, everything starts with the customer.
We have established direct, long-term relationships with over 11 million homes across Britain and Ireland.
These relationships give us a deep understanding of what our customers want and dont want and enable us to stay focused on providing the services that best meet their needs.
Our aim is to build a business that is durable Because we understand our customers, we know that the main for the long term: one which creates value for reason they join Sky, and then stay with us, is for great TV.
Our job is to shareholders and also acts responsibly in the ensure that we find and produce the very best content to keep offering them a better choice of the television they love.
interests of the wider communities in which And it is the strength and scale of our customer relationships that we operate.
We believe that those businesses enable us to develop innovative technology that is simple and easy to that achieve sustainable success have an use.
Our products have transformed the viewing experience for our appetite for change and a commitment to customers by giving them greater choice and flexibility in the way they access and enjoy our content.
constant renewal in all that they do.
In a fast-changing and increasingly complex environment, we believe it is the combination of these three strengths that gives us our edge.
And our continued focus and investment in them provides us with a durable source of value and competitive advantage.
What weve delivered Looking back on the last year, our results show that our approach is delivering for customers and for shareholders.
In what has remained a challenging consumer environment, we sold more products to more customers and grew the amount they spend with us.
Over the year, we added 3.3 million new subscription products, taking our total base of paid-for products past the 30-million mark for the first time to 31.6 million.
This is more than double the level of five years ago.
That growth came from across our product set.
In home communications, for example, Sky this year became the UKs second largest broadband provider, with more than 4.9 million customers.
This was a result of strong organic growth combined with the acquisition of O2s consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Overall, customers now take an average of 2.8 products from us, with more than one in three now taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony.
This helped us to grow ARPU to a record level of 577, an increase of 29 on a year ago.
At the same time, we continued to add new customers.
We closed the year with 11.2 million customers, up 547,000 on last year, making Sky the choice of around 40% of households across Britain and Ireland.
Building on our strengths We know that to keep attracting new customers and to add even more value to our existing customers we need continually to look for new ways to improve what we offer them.
This year, we significantly improved our content offering, securing long-term agreements on key rights, bringing outstanding new talent 4 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review to Sky and attracting record audiences across our channel portfolio.
Excellent financial performance In sport, we reinforced our leadership with our strongest year yet.
Our strong operational performance, combined with a continued Europes victory in the Ryder Cup, Andy Murrays first Grand Slam at focus on cost control and efficiency, has translated into excellent the US Open and the British and Irish Lions tour of Australia all financial performance and increased returns to shareholders.
Total provided momentous sporting occasions.
With back-to-back Ashes revenue increased by 7%, adjusted operating profit was up by 9% to series, live and exclusive Formula 1 racing and the biggest-ever season 1,330 million, while adjusted basic earnings per share were of Premier League football all to come, next year could be better yet.
60.0 pence, an increase of 18% on last year and almost two and a half In movies, we renewed our relationship with four of the six major times the level of five years ago.
studios in the course of the year, strengthening our portfolio and developing our offering to give customers more of the top movies to In light of this, the Board has proposed a dividend of 30.0 pence, which watch in more ways than ever before.
represents an increase of 18% year on year and the ninth consecutive year of growth.
Our programme to return 500 million to shareholders We have continued to bring our customers the best content from through a share buy-back also continues.
In addition, we intend to around the world whilst increasing the amount that we spend on seek shareholder approval at the Companys AGM in November for a original production.
We are on track to reach our target of an annual further 500 million of share repurchases.
As with previous spend of 600 million on British programming across our channels by programmes, 21st Century Fox formerly known as News Corporation the end of 2014.
Our strategy to increase investment in this area has agreed to participate in the buy-back, with the effect that there enabled us to bring more great shows to customers, including the will be no change in its economic or voting interests in the Company as multi award-winning Hunderby written by Julia Davis, Chris ODowds a result of the share buy-back programme.
 Moone Boy and the third series of the criticallyacclaimed Mad Dogs.
Satisfaction also reached new highs with Sky 1, Skys financial performance demonstrates the way in which our Sky Living and Sky Atlantic all named amongst customers top five successful transition to more broadly-based growth has created a must-have pay TV channels.
bigger, more profitable business and increased returns to shareholders.
Having more ways to grow has also served us well at a We strengthened our leadership in customer technology by driving time when household budgets have been stretched.
We will continue rapid take-up and usage of new connected TV services over the year.
to focus on growing our overall product sales as the best way to The growth in the number of connected boxes to reach 25% of deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
We see considerable customers, combined with the launch of the UKs most comprehensive headroom for growth and believe that our unique combination of catch up TV service, drove a fivefold increase in the number of average strengths makes us best-placed to deliver the TV and weekly On Demand downloads.
At the same time, Sky Go, our mobile communications services that customers want.
video service, had 3.3 million quarterly unique users by the end of the year.
Seeing the bigger picture In addition, we gave people a new way to access our content with the At Sky, we recognise that creating a durable business also means launch of NOW TV, our internet TV service.
Having started with Sky looking beyond our immediate commercial priorities to consider the Movies, we added Sky Sports to the service later in the year offering impact that we have on the wider communities in which we operate.
customers access to all six Sky Sports channels through a new We call this seeing the bigger picture.
This is the first time we have made Sky Sports available outside a monthly subscription and it represents an exciting, Sky makes a significant and growing economic and social contribution new opportunity for us to grow.
We provide choice for customers in entertainment and communications, were the biggest commercial Over the past year, we also continued to offer great quality and value supporter of the UK creative industries and were a long-term home communications products.
In January, we launched the Sky supporter of British sport.
And the more successful we are, the more Switch Squad, a dedicated team of customer service advisors to make we contribute to Britain and Ireland as a whole.
switching to Sky Broadband and Sky Talk easier.
We also continued to build Britains leading public WiFi network, now with over 20,000 We believe that being successful commercially goes hand in hand with hotspots and growing.
In addition, we took a significant step to acting responsibly so we think carefully about how we go about doing extend our footprint by launching home communications in Ireland.
One area where we have made significant progress this year is online safety, where we offer tools to help Exceptional customer service remains integral to what we do.
In parents protect their children at home and on the move.
January, we opened a new customer contact centre in Dublin to provide dedicated support for our Irish customers, creating 800 new As a leading broadcaster, we also know that we have an opportunity jobs.
We also created 550 new jobs over the course of the year across to make a wider impact, engaging directly with our customers to our UK retail team and at our Newcastle customer contact centre.
And inspire them to make a difference.
Over the last year, we reached a in a further step in our drive to improve the effectiveness of our home number of significant milestones.
In sport, a third of all secondary service operation, we are bringing 700 engineers in-house at the end schools are now taking part in Sky Sports Living for Sport, our of the summer.
programme that uses the power of sport to improve life skills in young people.
In addition, over a million more people are now cycling regularly The quality of our customer service delivery was again recognised in as a result of our partnership with British Cycling.
We hope that Chris Ofcoms customer satisfaction survey.
This ranked Sky first for Froomes success in the Tour fide France in July 2013 will inspire even customer service in TV, fixed broadband and landline.
more people to get on their bikes.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 5 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review In the arts, we have worked with some of the UKs leading arts organisations to bring innovative new art works to the public.
Our award-winning collaboration with Tate Liverpool was visited by almost 50,000 people this year.
At our broadcasting facility in West London, we also opened Sky Skills Studios, a unique learning experience that takes young people behind the scenes at Sky and gives them the chance to work with the latest technology to make their own news reports on subjects they are studying at school.
By the end of June, over 9,500 young people had already taken part in the Sky Skills Studios experience.
We are committed to continuing to do more in all of these areas, which is why we are particularly delighted that David Beckham has joined us as a Sky ambassador to help us get even more people involved in sport.
Of course, activities like these are the right thing for a business like Sky to do.
But acting responsibly in the interests of all of our stakeholders also gives people more reasons to feel positively about Sky, which is an important part of how we continue to be successful and grow.
As always, we couldnt have achieved any of this without our people.
They are vital to our success and every one of our 24,000 colleagues plays their part.
We work hard to attract the very best people to Sky and to create a culture that encourages them to do their best work and fulfil their potential.
Whether by improving the training that we provide or promoting internal moves to broaden individuals knowledge of the business, ensuring that we continue to develop our people effectively remains a key priority.
This year, the Sky community was devastated by the tragic loss of Nick Milligan, Managing Director of Sky Media, and his daughter Emily.
Nick was a widely respected member of our team and his legacy will endure for many years.
More importantly, he was a great friend and a devoted family man who will be sorely missed by all who had the privilege to know him.
In August 2013, we were shocked by the news that Mick Deane, a Sky News Cameraman, was shot and killed in Egypt covering the unrest in Cairo.
Mick had worked for Sky for the last 15 years in a distinguished career spanning four decades.
He was a brilliant cameramen and journalist and an inspiring mentor to many at Sky.
His death is an untimely reminder of the bravery and commitment that our colleagues in Sky News and other news organisations demonstrate each and every day.
I would like to thank the whole team for their hard work and enthusiasm over the last year.
With their continued drive and determination, we can continue to deliver for our customers, our communities and our shareholders, building a bigger and better business for the years to come.
Jeremy Darroch Chief Executive Officer 25 July 2013 This paragraph was included after the audited accounts were approved on 25 July 2013.
6 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
