Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT We remain con dent that our Strategy for Growth will continue to deliver for our stakeholders in 2014 and beyond.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Of cer As you enter any of our head of ces, be it Warsaw, Mexico, the Czech Republic and Hungary in Budapest or Leeds, you will be greeted by the particular.
This was undertaken selectively within our same statement of intent emblazoned on our walls: credit risk management framework.
This expansion To make a difference in everyday life by offering meets a basic customer appetite for greater access simple and personalised financial products.
It is a to credit and, at the same time, delivers pro table statement that we take very seriously and one that returns, the latter being most encapsulated by our we work to ful l every day as we interact with our impairment to revenue ratio which improved by customers.
The loans we provide make a real 0.4 percentage points to 26.6%.
We now use credit difference to how our customers succeed in juggling bureaux in Hungary, Mexico and Lithuania, and it the demands of everyday life and we know that will be rolled out in our remaining countries in 2014. they appreciate our values of being Responsible, We are also seeing a very positive response to our Respectful and Straightforward.
By being true to our strategic move to reward our most loyal customers values and treating our customers as we would wish with preferential pricing and we will consider this to be treated, we are building a sustainable and as we think about our product evolution for the successful business that meets their needs effectively coming years.
and provides a good return to our shareholders.
One of the four key pillars of our strategy is Effective A CEOs report normally ends by thanking employees Execution and we have commenced a strategic for their contribution, but as our success is genuinely change programme, Transformation for Growth, to built on the dedication of our employees and change the way our business operates from the inside agents, I wish to say, up front, to all of my colleagues, out.
We recognise we should make greater use of Thank you for your resourcefulness and energy, your integrated technology.
In order to remain a preferred passion and commitment and for never forgetting choice for our customers, we need to enable our that by living by our company values, we are building agents and eld staff with technology whilst offering a truly global and sustainable business.
customers more digital solutions and means of interacting with us.
This will help improve customer 2013 a year of growth engagement and support the trend we saw in 2013 2013 was a very successful year for our business when our cost-income ratio improved to 39.5%.
now that our strategy is embedded.
As the year progressed, we accelerated our top line customer We made progress in diversifying our sources of and credit issued growth, culminating in year-on-year funding.
In April 2013 we launched our first retail increases of 7% and 15% respectively.
This growth was bond in the UK, an issue that was handsomely achieved through smarter use of customer analytics, over-subscribed.
We issued 70 million of bonds at combined with the broadening of our product 6.125%, a signi cant reduction on our previous cost of offering and the expansion of our agent network, funds.
We followed this up in October with a top-up in each of our markets.
We also expanded our that took the total bonds in issue to 100 million.
The launch of two new We also issued competitively priced local currency markets, Bulgaria and Lithuania, demonstrated our bonds in Czech, Romanian and Hungarian currencies ability to leverage existing resources to open new and we now have local currency bond funding in all markets quickly and effectively, whilst the opening of our established European markets.
As part of our of our first branch in Mexico City, a conurbation of commitment to shareholders to make the balance some twenty million people, proved a timely reminder sheet work harder, we also completed our second of the scale of the opportunity that still awaits us share buyback programme, purchasing and in that market.
In order to accelerate growth, we cancelling 60 million of shares.
This brings our equity methodically expanded our credit risk appetite in to receivables ratio in line with our new 50% target.
20 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Our Strategy for Growth EXPANDING OUR IMPROVING CUSTOMER FOOTPRINT ENGAGEMENT We intend to grow in our existing markets We will provide new products and and new countries, organically or more digital channels.
p. 22 p. 23 through bolt-on acquisitions.
DEVELOPING A SALES EFFECTIVE EXECUTION CULTURE We will invest in technology to execute our strategy more ef ciently.
We will use marketing skills to gain a better understanding of our p. 24 p. 25 customers.
Regulation and competition Our communities and environment Whenever I am asked what keeps me awake at We recognise the importance of the role we play night, I always give the same answer: regulation and in the lives of our customers and through them competition.
Regulation because, irrespective of how the impact on the broader communities we serve.
good our relationships are with local regulators, it is Each of our businesses is engaged in supporting their never possible to know with absolute certainty what local communities and details of these activities can new challenges may be posed: and competition be found on our website.
We also acknowledge the because no matter how successful and resilient our impact that a business of our size can have on the business model is, we must always be alive to the environment and the impact of our efforts to minimise threat that competition can bring.
any potential negative effects can also be reviewed on page 59.
In the last week of December, we announced that we had been ned by UOKiK, the consumer protection Looking ahead agency in Poland, for what it deemed to be practices Our business is simple: we seek to provide our not in the best interest of consumers.
Speci cally, they customers with products that are easy to understand, challenged the fact that we exclude our optional affordable and suitable for their needs and that meet home service fees from what is termed the total cost our criteria for shareholder returns.
So long as we keep of credit.
In our view their assessment is incorrect our customers as our key focus and operate by our and we have appealed the decision.
As I mentioned values, our business will continue to grow and prosper.
at the very start of my report, our business values The past year was very successful and although we are integral to how we do business and we believe foresee an increase in regulatory challenge and our documentation and processes are fully aligned competitive activity, we remain con dent that our with this.
Strategy for Growth will continue to deliver for our stakeholders in 2014 and beyond.
As regards competition, we now see increasing levels of activity in our European markets, particularly in the payday lending sector.
Whilst these businesses do not compete with us directly, their impact in terms of future regulation should not be underestimated and we are focusing our efforts on demonstrating to local Gerard Ryan regulators that our business model is different from the Chief Executive Of cer payday lending model that has come in for so much criticism in the past year.
Notwithstanding this, we are monitoring the activities of all providers of finance in our markets to see what we can learn from them in order to improve our own service to our customers.
The market overview section of this report provides detail on the competitive and regulatory environment.
21 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
