business review chief executive officers strategic review A new strategy for the business We have reported a strong set of results for In May I communicated that Britvic has the potential to become our financial year ending 29 September 2013. one of the most admired soft drinks businesses in the world by: As well as an improvement in the underlying Becoming the benchmark integrated branded soft drinks performance of the business, we have made business for both PepsiCo and our own brands in GB & Ireland.
good progress on both the strategic initiatives Fully exploiting global category opportunities in kids, family we announced in May and on the international and adult.
Creating a simple focused operating model, empowering our growth opportunities of our brands.
people and matching resource and capability to the opportunities and: Performance highlights Being a trusted and respected member of the communities in Although market conditions remained difficult in each of our which we operate.
business units, we saw some notable successes across the business and benefitted from the warm weather, with an To achieve this vision we set out a new strategy to drive market exceptionally hot July.
leading profit growth underpinned by margin enhancing revenue growth.
The strategy has two parts, firstly our full portfolio markets In GB stills, Fruit Shoot has recovered from the impact of the recall of GB and Ireland and secondly the International and France in July 2012 with its take-home market share at the end of the business where we will leverage our category leadership of kids, financial year back to pre-recall levels.
Brand perception measures, family and adult categories.
Further details of the strategy can be such as brand you love and happy to give to your child, found on page 4 of the annual report.
recovered from the low point of 2012.
Delivery of the strategy requires a new streamlined organisation In GB carbonates, in a particularly competitive environment, we structure based on three clear principles: simplicity to reduce protected our volume whilst growing both price and revenue.
Pepsi complexity, enabling faster decision making and a lower cost gained market value share, building on its share gains in 2012. operating model: focus against fewer strategic priorities matching Our International business unit and our franchising model resources and capability to execute better and: accountability gained further momentum.
Earlier in the year we announced that ensuring we have clear ownership to deliver the performance.
distribution would be expanded to 32 states in the USA in time We have announced our new operating model and appointed for the summer.
In addition we saw Fruit Shoot roll-out nationally our senior leadership and management teams.
in Spain with Pepsi South West Europe.
In India we remain on-track to produce Fruit Shoot in-market by mid-2014 through The restructuring of our GB and Ireland teams is due to be largely the distribution agreement with the Narang Group.
We are now working hard to simplify our internal ways of working across all functions and In France, our syrups brands continued to perform well and will continue to fully support all employees impacted by change, gained further market share.
Fruit Shoot successfully returned to including those in the supply chain who will leave the business the market and is performing ahead of where it was pre-recall.
between February and May 2014, or relocate between sites In Ireland, our own brands increased market share, despite following the closure of Chelmsford & Huddersfield.
the difficult trading conditions in that market.
We also announced that we would deliver 30m of annualised Towards the end of the financial year market performance was cost savings by 2016, of which 25m would be realised by 2015. more subdued across all business units, for example, in GB in Of these savings we intend to reinvest a net 10m into the September take-home market volumes were down 1.2%.
We are on track to achieve these savings and the phasing that we outlined at the interims with the announcement of the new strategy.
8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 business review business review ove over rv viiew ew go gov vernance ernance financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation chief executive officers strategic review continued Strategic initiatives update Being trusted and respected in our communities 1.
Incr ease operational leverage through fewer manufacturing Acknowledging the need to further incorporate the principles of sites by redistributing capacity, reducing the cost base and corporate responsibility into the core of our business, in 2012 our improving our asset utilisation Executive Team approved a new sustainable business strategy.
This ensures that Britvic is well placed to address the key social and - Production to end in Huddersfield and Chelmsford by March 2014 environmental risks facing us, including public health and responsible - Ballygowan becomes the single water brand for GB and Ireland resource use, and acts on the opportunities that give us a business in spring 2014 advantage.
Finally, we aim to positively contribute to the communities - Achieved a 7% reduction in the number of production lines on which we impact whether thats our employees, our consumers or the local geographies where we have a physical presence.
Fundamentally change the Irish operating model addition we recognise our impact on global communities, particularly - Combined senior leadership team for GB and Ireland appointed those from which we source ingredients and all our direct suppliers - Belfast warehouse closed November 2013 are required to adhere to our ethical trading policy.
- Licensed wholesale separated from the core business Full details of our sustainable business programme and the progress we have made can be found in the annual Sustainable Business 3.
T ransform our procurement and product optimisation Report.
This can be downloaded from the results and presentation initiatives section of the website www.
com or a hard copy can be - Increased investment in people, systems and insight requested by writing to: - Implemented a strategic sourcing programme for key raw The Director of Corporate Affairs materials, such as juice Britvic plc - Consolidated the indirect supplier base in GB by 16% and Breakspear Park Ireland by 29% Hemel Hempstead 4.
Implement a commer cial change programme in GB HP2 4TZ to ensure our brands deliver strong and profitable We recognise that the diversity of our workforce is important to revenue growth the success of the business and the board will be taking steps to - Developing a stronger partnership with intermediaries and address this.
In 2013, women comprised 15% of our board and direct customers to deliver a more efficient and profitable Executive Team membership, 27% of senior managers and 31% route to market solution of total employees.
There is currently one female on the Britvic plc - Moved from three to two sales channels board and a female General Counsel and Company Secretary.
- Improving our end-outlet contact model The organisation has faced a year of uncertainty, firstly with the aborted merger and then with the focus on implementing the new strategy.
The commitment and the passion shown by the Britvic International update team has been outstanding.
In 2014 we will continue to implement Our International business progressed well this year with a number our new strategy and we have comprehensive plans across the of significant developments: group to drive growth, including new innovation for Robinsons with In the USA we saw distribution for Fruit Shoot grow to 32 states Squashd, Fruit Shoot partnering with Angry Birds, Teisseire following further expansion with PepsiCo Americas Beverages sponsoring the Tour fide France and Pepsi will bring football to life in PAB and a new agreement with the independent bottler, its unique way.
We recognise that there is a further period of change Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of Pittsburgh.
for our people, as we continue to implement our new operating An agreement with PepsiCo South West Europe for the national model and change the way we work and that the external consumer distribution of Fruit Shoot in Spain.
environment will continue to be challenging.
A distribution agreement for Fruit Shoot with the Narang Group However, I am confident that with the team we have, our portfolio will see the brand available to consumers in India mid-2014.
of great brands and our strong plans, we will continue to prosper The establishment of a management team and fully resourced and realise our ambition to be one of the worlds most admired soft business unit to drive our international expansion.
We have announced further material developments in the USA with the signing of a long term exclusive bottling agreement with PAB, for both expanded distribution and additional manufacturing capacity.
This will see Fruit Shoot Simon Litherland available in 41 states next year.
Chief Executive Officer Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 9
