Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Key financial highlights I am pleased to be able to Overall, the Group achieved total revenues of 979.2 million in present another strong set of 2013.
This represents an organic revenue growth rate of 8.5%, an achievement we are particularly pleased about, as it results in 2013, building on represents a step forward from the 7% organic growth reported in each of the last three years.
This improvement reflects the the progress and momentum benefits of the investments we continue to make in the of previous years, as we business and a very strong performance by our international Employee Benefits operations in particular.
continue to execute our Organic revenue growth rate 2009-13 clearly defined strategy.
10% 8.5% 8% 7% 7% 7% 6% 5% 4.3% 3.8% 4% 3.4% 2% 1.3% 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 -1.5% Organic growth is on fees and commissions excluding the impact of JLT acquisitions, disposals, investment income and currency Average for US quoted brokers Aon, Marsh, Willis, Gallagher Our global Risk & Insurance businesses achieved revenue growth of 7%, with total revenue of 723.9 million.
Trading profit rose by 7% to 149.9 million, with the trading margin remaining at 21% despite our continuing significant levels of investment in people and in strengthening our platform.
This included particularly strong performances from our Reinsurance, Latin American and Asian operations, which grew revenues organically by 25%, 14% and 9% respectively.
Our Reinsurance results include an 8 week contribution from the Towers Watson reinsurance brokerage business which we acquired in November 2013.
Lloyd & Partners 6% organic revenue growth, our operations in Australia and New Zealand 5% organic revenue growth and JLT Specialty 4% organic revenue growth, also performed well in the face of challenging market and competitive conditions as the benefits from our specialty focus and the investments made in talent in previous years continued to come through.
On a reported basis, our Australian and New Zealand revenues declined by 2% due to currency movements in the second half of the year.
Our global Employee Benefits operations delivered a 25% increase in revenues to 255.3 million, of which 14% was organic, and generated 55.8 million of trading profit, a 29% increase on 2012.
Our Employee Benefits businesses now comprise some 26% of Group revenues.
15 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our UK & Ireland Employee Benefits operation delivered an 18% Our specialty focus increase in total revenues to 172.1 million, of which 4% was Our determination not to be all things to all people but to focus on organic, which taken together with the impact of the Alexander areas of specific knowledge, strong market position and growth Forbes Consultants & Actuaries business acquired in December potential, continues to set us apart.
This specialty focus has given 2012 reflected a continued strong performance despite challenging us a unique voice in the market.
More information can be found on our strategy on page 23.
Our Asia Employee Benefits operations also had a very strong year, growing revenues by 45% to 55.4 million, of which 38% was Clients and competitors see JLT as having an edge in those areas organic.
This growth included the contribution from a number of where we have chosen to compete.
It is this focus, this acquisitions made over the last 12 months and was underpinned by determination to prioritise our resources and activity where we can our market leading life insurance broking business which provides bring something different and distinctive to our clients, that has solutions to high-net-worth clients, working closely with most of the allowed us to continue to win market share.
major private banks in the region.
This has been particularly true in developing markets where there is The Employee Benefits businesses in both Latin America and strong demand for our core specialty skills in areas such as Australasia saw impressive growth in revenues with the Latin construction, aviation and energy which are the fundamental building American operations maturing into a meaningful business in its own blocks of continued economic development.
We therefore continue to invest in this area, both through hiring more Details of the performance of each individual business area are set specialist talent and through bolt-on acquisitions.
Acquisitions in out in the Review of Operations on pages 28 to 36.
2013 included Insfield in Malaysia, ForVision in Taiwan, IRS in the Netherlands Marine and Offshore supply, IDB in Dubai and continuing into 2014 with Lambert Brothers in Hong Kong and SCK Rating environment in Brazil.
Turning to the overall market, there is no escaping the fact that the market remains very competitive which continues to be to the Our strong footprint in Developed economies benefit of our clients.
We are set to benefit from our strong footprint in more mature The overall trend is very clear as the market continues to labour economies, where there are encouraging signs of economic under a huge over-supply of capital, particularly in North America recovery and growth, given the balance of our business.
where a lack of major catastrophe events generated good underwriting results in 2013.
Investors in search of yield and nonAt our last investor day we set out our ambition to increase our correlated returns have maintained a significant flow of funds into the exposure to the US, where we felt we were underweight given the insurance sector, which has had a knock-on impact across the dynamic prospects we saw for that economy over the next 5-10 market, causing increasing price-led competition.
However, as I have said many times before, we believe that our Our acquisition of Towers Watson Re during the year represented a prospects are shaped far more by longer term macro-economic and unique opportunity to contribute towards this strategic objective of demographic factors than short-term movements in insurance increasing our exposure to the US where it derives 60% of its market rates.
That said, it is clear that the external operating and revenues.
It also allowed us to accelerate our ambition to increase competitive environment continues to be challenging and uncertain.
the size of our reinsurance business.
Even so we continue to feel very confident about JLTs prospects Through this deal we have acquired one of the most respected and because of four key drivers of growth.
prized assets in the reinsurance market.
We are now the 4th largest reinsurance broker in the world, with over 660 employees and operations in over 30 locations in 16 countries.
Our unique culture The combination of Tower Watson Re and JLT Re has created a We continue to benefit from our unique culture.
A culture that is built dynamic new force which is now participating in tenders and being on the principles of being client first, collaborative, agile and rigorous.
provided with opportunities that we would simply not have seen A culture which remains distinctive, helping us attract and retain the previously.
best people and win clients around the world.
We now have the platform, scale and capabilities to attract and We do not take this for granted.
We know that as we grow and hire retain the very best talent in the industry.
Our focus is therefore on new people and acquire new businesses, there is a danger that this our clients and on driving a significant programme of investment in culture which has served us so well could get diluted.
people and capabilities to capture the strategic opportunity that this We continue to take very deliberate steps to protect and embed our acquisition has given us, particularly in the US.
culture across the organisation, be that through our collaborative We are confident that JLT Towers Re will make a strong contribution business planning, personal development or remuneration policies.
to the Groups growth prospects over the years ahead in the US, Our culture is more understood and celebrated and alive today at JLT London and around the world.
than it has ever been before and it is a key reason why we are set to continue to win people and clients from our competitors.
Our growing exposure to the Developing world More information can be found on our people and culture on We are also set to continue to benefit from our growing exposure to page 7. the higher growth economies of the world which now directly account for 20% of our total Group revenues, excluding London market generated revenues from these regions, almost double what it was only five years ago.
16 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 A strong five year track record of growth Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit Underlying Diluted EPS m m Pence 77.4% 103.2% 89.9% 979.2 54.5 185.4 551.9 28.7 91.2 08 13 08 13 08 13 12.1% compound annual growth rate 15.2% compound annual growth rate 13.7% compound annual growth rate Restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 Revised.
While there has been a relative slowing down of these economies Population growth, increased longevity and growing wealth in recent months, overall, Developing markets continue to offer against the backdrop of poor state-provided health services and a significantly above average growth rates which we are well placed competitive workplace where employers see life and healthcare to benefit from given our footprint, specialty-led expertise and benefits as key differentiators in their bid to attract and retain the brand.
best talent, combine to make this a very exciting market in which we intend to continue to invest both in people and bolt-on We believe that this above average growth is based on an acquisitions.
important set of long term trends: In 2013 for example, we acquired two healthcare administration Population growth, with nearly 95% of the 2.6 billion increase businesses in Indonesia and have now positioned ourselves as in the worlds population forecast to happen between now one of the main providers of healthcare services to the insurance and 2050 taking place in Developing markets industry in one of the biggest and fastest growing markets in the Population ageing, with people living longer and seeking more region.
We also purchased Eluleka in South Africa to merge with products and services to protect themselves and their families our existing operation there and bought a controlling stake in IDB in Dubai, to give us a platform in the Middle Eastern market.
Finally Growing levels of insurance penetration, as the world gets in early 2014 we announced our acquisition of a 75% stake in more prosperous, with the size of the worlds middle class set SCK, a leading Brazilian Employee Benefits business with further to increase from 1.8 billion people in 2009, to 4.9 billion by opportunities being pursued in Brazil, India and elsewhere.
2030, again mainly in Developing markets Rapid and unprecedented levels of urbanisation, which is The Future triggering huge investments in infrastructure, energy, telecoms, aviation, construction and healthcare.
All industries We therefore look forward to the next five years with optimism, where JLT has deliberately focused on building distinctive knowing that we have the culture, specialty-led strategy, business leadership positions mix and global platform in place to benefit from both a recovery in our core developed markets and the continued higher levels of We believe that these factors combine to create a dynamic set of growth of the developing markets.
conditions that support continued growth in our Risk & Insurance operations.
But their importance is perhaps best illustrated in how Although the external operating and competitive environment we are looking to grow our international Employee Benefits remains challenging, JLTs distinctive culture, clear strategy and operations.
expanding platform give us real confidence in our ability to deliver year-on-year financial progress.
International Employee Benefits Our Employee Benefits businesses contributed revenues of 255.3 million which was 26% of total Group revenues.
This can be split between our operations in the more mature countries of Canada, Australia and the UK which grew by 19% last year, and our operations in the faster growing economies of Asia, Latin America and South Africa which grew by 45%.
Our operations in Developing economies are focused on the areas of healthcare and life insurance because we see these areas as being particularly well placed to benefit from the trends Dominic Burke highlighted earlier.
