Strategy 12 12 Chief Executives introduction We have also invested in 4G mobile spectrum Making a difference which will allow us to offer enhanced mobile Communications services are increasingly broadband services to consumers and important in todays world.
Our customers businesses helping our customers to stay rely more and more on our services and best connected wherever they are.
The our networks whether they are one of the spectrum allows us to build on our existing 10m households we serve, our hundreds of strength in wiwhere usage of our 5m wiwholesale providers, or the largest global hot spots tripled in the year to 13bn minutes.
This is a big opportunity for BT: it is also a big responsibility.
All of us in BT We are seeing the benets of our investments recognise that what we do as a business in the high-growth regions of Asia Pacic, makes a real difference to our customers and Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and the societies in which we operate.
That is Africa with double-digit growth in revenue why we are investing in new infrastructure, across these markets in the year.
Our services technology and services.
We are proud to make are helping multinationals expand into these Watch my video online at a difference and Id like to thank our people regions, and local companies become better www.
com annualreport for making it happen.
BT Global Services won total orders of 6.3bn in the year despite Opportunities across the tough conditions in Europe and the financial services sector.
wholebusiness At the start of the global economic downturn Customer service We have a lot more to we made a bold commitment to invest in While our global customer service improved bre broadband.
That 2.5bn investment do, but we are now a lot during the year, some of the wettest weather programme has already brought bre within on record triggered a surge of faults in our reach of more than half of the UKs homes and better positioned to do it.
Despite signicantly more businesses increasing by more than 100,000 resources in our engineering teams, customers premises per week.
Delivery is on budget and sometimes waited longer than they should for 18 months ahead of our schedule.
We believe repairs and provision.
that, together with government support and subject to an acceptable investment While such exceptional weather is unlikely environment, we can pass more than 90% of again, were making investments in customer premises with our network in the next three service to make us more responsive and better tofour years.
equipped to deal with variable weather and We are also investing in the next generation increased demand.
This will help us get back of TV.
We will offer a complete package of on track with the improved service levels we phone, broadband and TV.
We are rolling out delivered in the previous few years.
new services and providing new channels and Overall in the year, we did what we said we on-demand content.
The launch of BT Sport would do.
We delivered strong financial results, this summer will bring real competition to the and made substantial investments.
Our three channels BT Sport 1, better and stronger company than a year ago.
BT Sport 2 and ESPN will provide premium sports content including Premier League first Theres a lot more to do, and many challenges, picks, exclusive rugby coverage and womens but BTs future has rarely looked so exciting.
By offering BT Sport for free with BT broadband, we are making world-class sport affordable.
Superb production facilities, backed up by a team of top sporting and broadcasting talent, promise to make this a great service.
Ian Livingston Chief Executive 9 May 2013
