Chief Executive Offi cers review The past year was one of signifi cant During the year, we outlined our progress for BTG.
In addition to a strong plans to invest in a number of studies overall business performance, each of designed to support the expanded use our three business areas performed well of our Bead products.
These include fi nancially and key operational goals investigational studies to explore use were achieved.
in different patient populations, together with larger-scale randomised clinical In Specialty Pharmaceuticals, where trials that are designed to support we currently focus on antidote products, pre-market approval PMA applications revenue grew by 27% to 97.2m, to extend the indicated uses of the resulting in a 41% increase in pre-R&D products.
Through the Beads expansion activities The Interventional Medicine business, and PEM, we have signifi cant organic which currently provides interventional growth potential.
Expanding our oncology products used to treat patients portfolio through the acquisition of with liver tumours and early-stage complementary products that meet our prostate cancer, delivered a 26% fi financial and strategic criteria is also a Louise Makin increase in revenues to 36.1m and a key growth driver.
Chief Executive Offi cer 91% higher profi t contribution of 13.0m.
We are very clear on the criteria we Read more about our strategy The Licensing & Biotechnology segment use when considering acquisitions.
com about-us strategy delivered a strong performance with They must, of course, have the potential Our latest share prices revenue 10% higher at 100.4m.
The to deliver an appropriate return on www.
com investors share-price-data profi t contribution was 12% lower at investment, but they must also leverage 40.1m as a result of the reduced existing capabilities such as our sales revenue from BeneFIX, which was a forces, commercial infrastructure or high-margin royalty stream, and an developing expertise in drug-device increase in the central costs allocated combinations.
We continue to review a to this business segment as we have number of opportunities and have also built our internal capabilities.
experienced an increase in the number of opportunities that are being brought Operating highlights include the to us.
submission of a new drug application NDA in the US seeking approval of BTG operates in a highly regulated PEM as a comprehensive treatment business environment.
To expand for moderate to severe varicose our portfolio, enter new markets and veins: a strong launch for Voraxaze adapt to healthcare reforms, we must glucarpidase by the US Acute Care continuously enhance our internal team: and the supplementary approvals processes and capabilities.
This is of Johnson & Johnsons Zytiga a corporate priority which we are abiraterone acetate for use in chemoaddressing, partly through our Learning nave patients with metastatic and Development programme for castration-resistant prostate cancer.
employees, and partly through hiring new employees with specifi c skill sets and Over the medium-term, we are investing experience.
The average number of the cash generated in our three employees increased during the year business segments in three principal from 498 to 569, and we anticipate areas: product development, product further growth as we continue to prepare acquisitions and building our for the anticipated US approval and capabilities.
Business review 14 Chief Executive Offi cers review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Varisolve polidocanol endovenous microfoam PEM A new drug application NDA has been submitted to the FDA in the US, seeking approval of PEM as a potential comprehensive treatment to reduce the symptoms and appearance of varicose veins.
Business review 15 Chief Executive Officers review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executive Officers review continued W ith a clear strategy to With the approval of Voraxaze and Our business has enjoyed strong the completion of our PEM Phase III growth in recent years, whether build our interventional trials, the balance of our development measured by revenue, underlying oncology business, the activities is shifting towards the profitability or market capitalisation, Bead products and in particular the or by reference to the number of potential approval of PEM, development of our novel pre-loaded products we sell, the market segments and the resources to Beads and the studies we plan to we serve or the people we employ.
initiate to support the expansion of The business is in good shape and acquire complementary their indicated uses.
With a clear products, we have the strategy to build our interventional opportunity to create We have realigned our research and oncology business, the potential development function to best support approval of PEM, and the resources to significant additional value the current and medium-term plans.
acquire complementary products, we in the business.
Wehave also created an innovation have the opportunity to create significant function.
This groups role is to engage additional value in the business.
Louise Makin with customers and the wider medical Chief Executive Officer community to identify market Louise Makin opportunities and to conduct feasibility Chief Executive Officer studies.
These opportunities may exploit our existing platforms and products, or they may link to our acquisition activities.
We set a new goal last year of being an excellent corporate citizen by embedding compliance, quality and environmental, Health and Safety matters in all activities.
Nowhere is this more important than in our manufacturing activities, the integrity of which is crucial to maintaining the safety and availability of our products.
We have made good progress and will continue to invest in training, process improvements and adding new people where we identify gaps.
Our corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to 40 provides more information.
People are our most important asset and being able to recruit, retain and motivate the talent we need is critical to our long-term success.
How we conduct our business is as important as the results we achieve: living our values begins with the recruitment process and is embedded throughout the organisation.
Business review 16 Chief Executive Officers review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
