Chief Executive Officers report Growth in AUM directly benefits revenues and, combined with our disciplined approach to investing for growth, EBITDA grew 22 per cent.
to 151.5m and EBITDA margins increased to 53 per cent.
This generated 122.1m of operating cash flow, improving net cash to 159.5m and reducing our outstanding debt to 11.0m at the end of the year.
This remaining debt was repaid in February 2014, providing the potential for increased returns to shareholders going forward as part of our policy of sharing the rewards of growth within a sustainable balance sheet structure.
The opportunity for Jupiter to build on this strong performance in the coming years is significant.
Structurally, savings markets around the world are undergoing great change.
Ageing populations in many countries are being encouraged to save more for longer retirements governments can no longer afford to fund, while rising wealth in the worlds emerging markets is creating further new, attractive opportunities for fund managers to build assets under management.
Jupiter is increasingly well-positioned to build its share of the growing market for savings across the world.
Delivering value to our clients and shareholders We are well-established as a market leader in the UK and it is a 2013 has been a busy and successful year for Jupiter and our market that remains attractive to us, both due to the growing development plans for 2014 and beyond will seek to deliver requirement for individuals to save for retirement and as global further on our strategic goals, to the benefit of both our clients financial institutions channel assets through London.
We also have and shareholders.
plans over the coming years to develop additional local presence in countries where we believe significant assets can be raised.
Achieving investment outperformance over the medium term is Our international distribution efforts have already lifted our SICAV critical to our strategy and Jupiters fund management team has AUM to 3bn by the end of 2013 and we would expect this to grow continued to outperform over the key three year time period.
significantly as we extend our relationships with key distributors As at 31 December 2013, 69 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM was above on a global basis.
median and, including segregated mandates and investment trusts, we have added value to 73 per cent.
of our clients by AUM over the In addition to building our distribution network, we will continue last three years.
to build our investment capabilities, developing existing talent and hiring new managers as the business evolves.
In addition, we have Our position in international markets has continued to strengthen, been working to build the support structures around fund managers with a growing proportion of fund sales being sourced from to ensure that the growing demands of an international sales our distribution networks across Europe and Asia.
During 2013, network do not reduce the time spent running their portfolios, we actively built this local presence, adding strength to our appointing, for example, a product specialist to support the capabilities in Germany and Hong Kong and hiring sales resource multi-asset and fixed interest team.
We now have offices in Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich, Singapore, Sweden and Hong Kong, with additional markets, In the 14 years I have been Chief Executive, Jupiter has delivered such as France, covered by third party relationships.
consistent investment outperformance, increased its distribution capabilities and, since the IPO in June 2010, created significant This growing distribution network, supported by our investment value for shareholders.
The next stage of our growth will be led outperformance and strong brand, drove inflows of 1.2bn during by Maarten Slendebroek, who will take over from me as Chief the year.
Mutual funds remained the key driver of these flows, with Executive on 17 March 2014.
Maarten has been a key architect particularly high demand for our bond funds and top-performing of the strategic direction outlined above and this is the right time equity products such as UK Special Situations and our European for him to take over as Chief Executive.
I am delighted to be able funds.
By the end of 2013, assets under management had reached to continue serving the business in the newly-created role of Vice a record 31.7bn.
Chairman and helping Maarten grow Jupiter further in the future.
Edward Bonham Carter Chief Executive 26 February 2014 4 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Well positioned for growth Market opportunity Investment environment This section outlines the market opportunity Our strategy for Jupiter and details how our strategy targets the attractive growth dynamics available to retail Deliver outperformance asset managers.
after fees to our clients 1 The long-term retail savings market has attractive dynamics Sell this expertise through products supporting its growth.
Central to this are global demographic trends.
Populations around the world are ageing not just in suited to our distribution strengths 2 mature economies such as the US and the UK, but in Asia too.
In China, for example, some 26 per cent.
of the population will be over 65 by 2050 compared to 24 per cent.
This Deliver attractive returns dynamic is increasing the burden on individuals around the world 3 to shareholders to save more for retirement, with particular pressure on those who have traditionally relied on the state to provide, as governments withdraw pension provision.
Strategic response: This structural dynamic is supported by changes to savings We believe that these are attractive market environments and industries in many markets, with a shift in buying habits away from dynamics in which to operate as a retail fund manager.
Our strategy traditional insurance products towards transparent products such for accessing these is built around a focused business model which as mutual funds.
Governments are providing supportive tax regimes seeks to deliver value to both our clients and our shareholders.
to encourage long-term savings and the focus on self-provision is Integral to this is our belief that active management of mutual increasing the use of defined contribution pension schemes funds can lead to outperformance to clients after fees: that controlled by the individual.
efficient distribution of unitised products on a scalable operating platform can lead to strong earnings growth and operating cash Savings markets in emerging economies are also undergoing broader flow: and that this cash can both fund further growth and provide changes.
In addition to ageing populations, the growing wealth of the potential for increased returns to shareholders going forward.
individuals in these nascent markets is increasing the propensity to save.
The wealth of high net worth individuals in Asia, for example, We seek to execute this strategy within our chosen markets has already overtaken that of Europe and is close to reaching that as detailed below.
While savings markets globally are enjoying long-term structural growth trends, the health of economies and financial markets affects short-term savings trends.
For example, in the UK, the savings ratio was 5.4 per cent.
during the third quarter of 2013, down from a peak of over 8.5 per cent.
In the Euro area, the savings rate for the first quarter of 2013 was 13.1 per cent.
However, despite these short-term constraints, retail mutual fund assets have continued to grow fuelled by net inflows and rising markets.
Over the last four years, UK retail mutual fund AUM has grown by 12 per cent.
Within the overseas markets in which Jupiter has chosen to operate, the growth rate has been higher at 15 per cent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 5 UK UK retail assets under management bn The UK is Jupiters core market and its retail 800 Equities mutual fund environment exhibits robust flow CAGR 9% Fixed income 765 characteristics across the market cycle with p. a.
Mixed asset 600 Property 657 a consistent appetite for equity products.
Others 584 574 The savings industry is supported by attractive 480 400 464 demographics the population is expected to 360 grow from 63m in 2012 to around 80m by 2050, 200 while the dependency ratio is expected to increase from 51 in 2010 to 68 by 2050.
This will 0 make the UK the largest population in Europe.
Figures exclude money market funds.
There is, as a result, an increasing need for self-provision with only 45 per cent.
of people in the UK currently saving enough.
The government is supporting this by providing attractive tax wrappers in the form of both pensions and ISAs.
ISAs currently allow individual investors to shelter up to 11,520 from further income or capital taxes, an allowance which is index-linked to inflation.
Funds in the UK are distributed mainly through platforms and intermediaries such as wealth managers, stockbrokers and IFAs, with direct sales accounting for a very small proportion of the total.
Buying financial products such as mutual funds has also become simpler with the introduction of open architecture, enabling investors to buy financial products from various providers on one platform.
Fund platforms now account for 49 per cent.
of total fund sales, up from 37 per cent.
The UK is also a key location for global financial institutions.
The high net worth market in which they operate is a resilient long-term growth market that grew throughout the financial crisis.
We estimate that the pool of investible assets is currently approximately 36trn.
While such assets may be regarded as international, a large proportion of them is channelled through decision-making centres in London.
Investor confidence in the UK has improved throughout 2013, with fund buyers shifting away from the fixed income assets that have dominated sales since the financial crisis and diversifying into equity funds.
Figures from the Investment Management Association show cumulative sales of 20.4bn in 2013, up from 14.3bn in 2012 and the best since 2000, apart from the exceptional inflows seen in 2009 and 2010 following the financial crisis.
Within this, equity funds were the most popular asset class in eleven out of the twelve months of the year.
The UK industry currently manages a total of 765bn.
Strategic response: Jupiter is a leading player in the UK mutual fund industry with a 4.8 per cent.
share of retail fund assets under management.
UK clients currently account for 88 per cent.
of our assets under management.
We have a high quality distribution franchise, built around long-term investment outperformance, a strong brand and sophisticated market segmentation.
Our focus is on attracting assets primarily through intermediaries and we see significant growth potential from building market share further into the UK wealth management sector and from our increased focus on global financial institutions.
6 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 International markets International: assets under management bn With over 3.1trn of mutual fund assets, 2,400 Equities continental Europe is a significantly larger mutual Fixed income CAGR 14% fund market than the UK.
It is subject to many of Mixed asset 2,140 p. a.
1,800 Property the same demographic trends, although the public 1,827 Others sector response is less developed at this stage.
1,564 1,466 1,200 The installed asset base historically has a higher 1,162 997 proportion of fixed income products and flows 800 600 tend to be more pro-cyclical in nature than in the UK.
We believe the opportunity for growth 0 in continental Europe is significant as open 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 architecture gains a stronger foothold, supported Source: Simfund.
by demographic trends that are driving a greater level of saving for retirement over the medium to long-term.
Distribution in continental Europe has not, as yet, embraced open architecture in the same way the UK has the main distribution channel continues to be retail and private banks, followed by IFAs and insurance wrappers, platforms and direct selling.
There are, of course, significant differences at a local level.
In France, Spain and Switzerland, for example, open architecture has developed so far mainly via funds of funds, while in Italy and Germany IFAs are taking a larger proportion of sales with guided architecture a growing trend.
Net sales of UCITS funds in Europe in 2013 totalled 320bn, with flows evenly split across equity, bond and balanced funds.
As one of the fastest growing fund markets in the world, Asia also presents a significant opportunity for an active asset manager such as Jupiter.
Asia has total mutual fund assets of 1.2trn, although individual markets in the region are fragmented in a distribution sense with some, such as Singapore, dominated by private banks and others, such as Hong Kong, more retail-orientated and global financial institutions having a significant presence in the region.
Product preferences in Asia also vary by country and so our approach is tailored for each market.
Strategic response: In recent years, we have started to diversify Jupiters business away from its reliance on the UK market, extending our distribution network to provide coverage across the key financial centres where our distribution partners operate.
This expansion is focused on selling our SICAV range, which packages similar investment strategies to those we run within our unit trusts into vehicles which are more attractive to local clients.
These products are managed from our London headquarters, which also provides sales and marketing support to our overseas offices.
Jupiter is now present in Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich, Singapore, Sweden and Hong Kong, with additional markets, such as France, covered by third party relationships, and will seek to develop additional local presence where we believe significant assets can be raised.
These developments will ensure we are able to service our growing client base to the high standards they expect.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 7
