Chief Executive Officers Letter striking the balance From outstanding performance in 2011 12, Burberry began the year cautiously optimistic, our long-range objectives ensuring clarity of the luxury brand message, enabling sustainable growth and being a great company firmly in sight.
This combination of optimism and determination, fuelled by the brands wealth of opportunity, suggested continued pursuit of the investment-oriented strategic agenda in the year ahead.
At the same time, this pre-disposition was tempered by uncertainties in the macro environment and the goal to deliver near-term financial performance.
In the final analysis, the result was a balance of dynamic management, core execution and strategic investment.
Challenging context Following standout growth in 2011 relative to the range of consumer sectors, luxury slowed dramatically in 2012.
The ongoing economic crisis in the Eurozone and a continued sluggish US weighed on all areas of consumer spending.
Although most of Asia remained relatively Angela Ahrendts healthy, the Chinese consumer which accounts for Chief Executive Officer a majority of luxury consumption growth was subdued by a secularly decelerating economy complicated by government transition.
Industry experts estimate that luxury sector growth declined from 13% in 2011 to 5% in 2012.
Within that, ready-to-wear brands and businesses were disproportionately affected.
For Burberry, this climate manifested itself in a decline in store traffic and greater weekly sales volatility.
Dynamic management Internally, we talk about managing the business dynamically and focusing on the things we can control.
2012 13s external environment tested the team on these dimensions.
Supported by investments in information systems and business intelligence expertise during the past few years which enable monitoring, analysis and implementation we set out to do exactly that.
Heightened conversion The traffic decline placed greater emphasis on converting consumers entering the stores to customers.
This effort included service initiatives that maximised time on the selling floor of our most skilled associates, increased inventory availability and improved selling skills and product knowledge.
In terms of product, we expedited fashion assortments targeted at core luxury customers and refined monthly floorset execution to enhance the flow of fresh merchandise.
8 Chief Executive Officers Letter Targeted marketing Enhancing the product proposition Aided by deeper consumer insight, we retargeted marketing At the heart of the Burberry brand, product was a key activities in keeping with changing consumer spending area of strategic activity.
The team increased the brands presence in Elevation of the product offering is an ongoing process.
high-profile outdoor and travel-oriented locations and In the year, we exited selected opening price points experimented with new digital venues some of which in heritage rainwear and leather goods categories.
were contracted on a real-time basis.
For festive periods, Exacting a cost in terms of sales, this is consistent with a cross-functional group refined programmes across the brands positioning within the current luxury context.
product, visual and advertising to better highlight specific Similarly responding to consumer demand, we continued gift-giving opportunities.
to invest in the upper tiers of our product pyramid, the Prorsum and London labels.
These labels increased their Tactical efficiency share of retail sales during the year.
The Group also acted to enhance near-term efficiency.
Discretionary expenses were tightly controlled and Although founded as a mens brand, Burberry is inventory was closely managed at all stages of the underpenetrated in mens.
During the year, outerwear process in keeping with softer sales.
benefited from greater emphasis on innovation and design.
Tailoring developed with broader assortments Core execution and expanded distribution.
Closer attention to in-store Articulated by the five strategic themes, Burberrys core timing of seasonal merchandise enhanced relevance of strategy has been consistently executed over the past the offering.
And the first fully dedicated Burberry mens seven years, and actions to navigate immediate conditions store was opened in London in October 2012.
Achieving did not sway us from this course.
a 13% revenue increase, mens was the fastest growing product division in the year.
With mens integration only Blurring the physical and digital two years old, Burberry is in the early stages of Given a world of increasingly ubiquitous mobile internet capitalising on this heritage.
access, we expect dissolution of the boundaries separating October saw the launch of The Britain watch for women physical and digital channels.
Consumers will see a single, and men.
The Britain, featuring an advanced Swiss-made continuous space in which to interact with a brand.
Through mechanical movement and more sophisticated design, a range of activities, we are working to integrate the benefits is an important step in realigning Burberrys watch of the physical and digital spheres.
Ultimately, the vision business with the brands luxury positioning.
is to serve completely any consumer on any platform in any geography.
Engaging the Chinese consumer globally In this regard, the opening of the London flagship at Given their importance, efforts to better understand 121 Regent Street in September is our most ambitious and serve Chinese consumers are an ongoing priority.
Housed in a period building restored in During the year, Burberry conducted proprietary research, partnership with traditional British craftsmen, the store leveraging the results across functions: to extend product expresses burberry.
com in tangible space complete sizing and fit, to train sales associates in high-travel markets, product assortment, RFID technology to trigger targeted to formulate occasion-specific marketing campaigns multimedia content, omnipresent digital screens citing a few examples.
In the year, Greater China represented continuously projecting brand imagery.
Burberry World Burberrys fastest growing major market and this consumer Live, a store of the future, blending heritage and innovation, was prominent throughout the retail network.
Additional integration initiatives included the expanded use of iPads to enhance inventory availability, continued upgrading of Retail Theatre throughout the store base to ensure synchronised delivery of brand content to consumers, and experimentation with new payment systems to streamline the purchase experience.
9 Chief Executive Officers Letter Developing growth markets Strategic investment Outside Asia, the Group continued to develop other While executing currently, the team invested in strategic growth markets.
In the directly operated markets of India, initiatives with longer-term horizons.
Latin America and the Middle East, the Group opened net six mainline stores during the year.
While some offer Integrating Beauty below average profitability today, we believe these markets Among the most exciting strategic investments in recent represent important components of future growth.
years, the transition of Burberrys fragrance and make-up In regions operated through franchise partners, including business from a licensed to a directly operated business Turkey, Russia and Eastern Europe, eight stores were began in the year.
opened with expansion to five new markets, including Offering luxurys opening price point and broadest Georgia and Jordan.
New franchise agreements were distribution, fragrance is the most widely encountered signed for Colombia and Chile.
expression of the Burberry brand.
The category also accounts for a large percentage of global brand media Expanding the retail presence spend.
As a result, direct operation will assist in In addition to London, the year included flagship store optimising brand presence in every market, further openings in Chicago, Hong Kong and Milan.
While enable Burberry to capitalise on the synergistic contributing to sales, these brand statements in gateway relationship with fashion, and better align the product cities present the complete Burberry to diverse groups offering with brand architecture.
Integration elevates of relevant consumers, many of them new to the brand.
this business to true core activity, allowing Burberry In total, the Group opened net 14 mainline stores, to capture the full opportunity.
six concessions and five outlets during the year, and completed seven major renovations.
Average selling In terms of opportunity, despite Burberrys position space increased 13%.
among the largest luxury apparel and accessories brands globally, it is undersized in fragrance.
Growth has been Refining the wholesale presence slow, with fragrance significantly underperforming the Efforts to align the quality of the brands wholesale presence rest of the Group over the past five years.
In make-up, with that of retail are ongoing.
In both the Americas and the brand has only just started.
Europe, we continued to concentrate on luxury-oriented From the decision to integrate in October, the team department and specialty stores with emphasis on moved quickly across functions, leveraging existing skills dedicated real estate while exiting legacy doors and resources while adding external category-specific inconsistent with the brands positioning.
This activity, in talent and capability.
As of 1 April, Beauty had been combination with the channels exposure to soft geographies, successfully integrated and commenced operating.
resulted in 1% underlying wholesale revenue growth for Burberrys fifth product division, Beauty is a growth the year.
As part of the brand proposition, Burberry looks to be Evolving customer dialogue a leader in consumers digital interaction with brands, In a landscape of Big Data and continuous communication, in both innovation and capability.
In marketing, the S S13 we believe , deep customer relationships campaign generated record awareness through social which allow an individualised customer dialogue will be media.
Total Burberry YouTube video views reached over critical to future success in luxury.
As part of this, the Group ten million during the year.
RFID-enabled personalised began developing new tools to provide an integrated content was introduced with the A W13 runway show.
view of a customers interaction with the brand across Experimenting with emerging digital platforms, Burberry all Burberry platforms, with initial piloting of a clienteling streamed live images of London weather to prominent application commencing at year end.
Development work outdoor sites in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Los Angeles to enhance consumers ability to engage the brand through and New York during the Olympic period.
In commerce, mobile devices also progressed in the year.
com added Spanish and Korean languages and tested new fulfilment options.
10 Chief Executive Officers Letter Transitioning the Japan legacy A great community In Japan, transition from the legacy licensed business Through the efforts of this great team we largely realised to global integration continued.
As part of this, Burberrys our objectives.
So I thank them, as well as Burberrys early stage retail operation achieved strong growth at extended community of franchise and licensing partners, existing stores and concessions, opened a concession, customers and suppliers, for their passion, commitment added a third store and planned additional openings in and hard work during the year.
Looking forward, this team 2013 14: while the effect of licence terminations continued provides confidence for markets favourable or not.
to reduce legacy royalty income.
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS Year to 31 March Reinforcing the supply chain is a key valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders.
To accommodate future growth objectives, the Group reinforced the supply chain.
In logistics, Burberry added 70.0p 14% distribution capacity, upgraded existing facilities and increased network efficiency.
In sourcing, additional 2013 70.0 14% resources were committed to further develop in-house 2012 61.6 26% outerwear manufacturing capability and improve raw material management.
2011 48.9 39% 2010 35.1 16% Strong financial results 2009 30.2 -4% This balance of activity delivered record financial results Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items.
in 2012 13 while positioning Burberry well for years ahead.
Total revenue increased 8% underlying to 2bn.
Retail revenue grew 12% driven by new space and a 5% comparable store gain.
Soft European markets particularly weighed on wholesale, resulting in a 1% underlying revenue increase.
The 1% underlying decline in licensing revenue was a product of double-digit growth among global licences more than offset by declining legacy Japan royalties.
Adjusted operating profit increased 14% to 428m, with the core retail wholesale segment increasing 17% on 8% revenue growth retail wholesale operating margin also reached a record 17.8%.
Capital expenditure totalled 176m and the Group ended the year with 297m in net cash.
Powerful culture Burberrys culture is a key ingredient to this success.
Rooted in the brands core values and fuelled by a creative-thinking, entrepreneurial spirit, our connected, united culture creates an energy that enables innovation, coordination and agility.
These characteristics are evident in the years accomplishments.
This distinctive culture is also expressed externally through ethical trade and sustainability efforts, employee engagement with local communities and the Burberry Foundation, which contributes both human and capital resources to encourage youth to realise their dreams through the power of creativity.
We continued to invest in this powerful culture throughout the organisation communication initiatives, operating structures, reward programmes and celebrations.
The bigger the business becomes, the more connected we will need to be.
