GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW STEPPING UP: NEW OPPORTUNITIES EARNINGS PER SHARE profitable growth for our business: personal growth for our employees: growth that drives the economy 15.20p and helps our customers achieve their goals.
2012: 13.84p The UK and US economies are in ways that are fair between RETURN ON EQUITY growing again: our LGIM economists generations and which avoid are currently forecasting 3% growth hurting the most vulnerable.
But Britains 2012: 15.4% economic growth relies too much INVESTING IN BRITAIN on ultra-low interest rates, printing Legal & General is well-placed to new money, and rising house prices.
help, by stepping up investment and This recovery is driven by spending, developing opportunities in ways PENSIONERS WHO DEPEND without enough investment by which benefit our policyholders and ON OUR RETIREMENT INCOME companies or government.
We strongly support not long-term economic solutions.
investment in infrastructure: in 1m housing, energy, health, transport Quantitative easing worked as an and education.
Britain needs over economic emergency measure, but 200,000 more houses each year: for MEMBERS IN OUR WORKPLACE it helped the haves rather than the the first-time and the last-time buyer PENSION SCHEMES have-nots.
Theres now 30 million and every stage in between.
We have people working in the UK, but realput over 3 billion into these areas so terms earnings for a typical British far, and alongside other insurers have 1m households are 6% lower than five committed another 25 billion over years ago, and productivity in most the next five years.
Go online to see a video Housing is in short supply and With huge resources over presentation from CEO Nigel Wilson unaffordable for many: we need 450 billion in total assets under investor.
com to speed up planning and double management we aim to build the number of homes being built.
a framework for sustained future We need to make saving for old age economic growth, creating homes more effective, building on pension and jobs, and helping to deliver auto-enrolment but with a fairer necessities like energy and transport tax system.
And we need to help at affordable prices.
government reduce the deficit, 6 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p004-017.
indd 6 14 03 2014 20:21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS determined to grow our people WORKING FOR SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY and skills.
We have to identify future leaders, ensuring we realise their We are paying 2013 dividends of 550 million and our potential.
Were delighted this was shareholders earned a total return of 61% in 2013. recognised by the Sunday Times Best Big Companies survey, which again ranked us among the top We have over 10 million customers globally and in 2013 we 25 large employers in 2013. paid 4.9 billion in net claims to customers, including 1.9 billion in annuity payments.
THE POWER OF CHANGE: ANALOGUE TO DIGITAL In 2013, we invested in new areas like We invest over 450 billion, employ over 9,000 people digital platforms and supplemented and in 2013 paid 877 million in tax.
our organic growth with four acquisitions: Lucida, Cala Homes, Cofunds and the Idol, the latter two being in the digital space.
Our industry is transforming, DEALING WITH RISK PARTNERSHIPS THAT DELIVER automating and speeding up The Government has reduced the For a long term business, public policy processes and increasingly uncertainty presents a risk.
We need UK deficit to 96 billion.
But annual interacting with customers online.
expenditure is running at around the right regulatory and policy 700 billion and tax receipts are only environment to deliver the right Were on an exciting operational products to customers at the right 600 billion.
Austerity alone cant and financial journey: five years ago offset the rising welfare costs of prices.
The Solvency II legislation net cash was 320 million, its now people living longer and needing made progress in 2013, and thanks to over 1 billion: dividends have grown HM Treasurys successful negotiation, more care.
Risks and costs need to by 129% and our share price has be shared differently between the managed to avoid the worst pitfalls, improved tenfold.
And our business government and individuals, who but uncertainties remain.
Weve spent performed well again in 2013. will increasingly have to make better 154 million and need to be sure that Net cash generation was 1 billion, financial provision.
the EUs capital requirements will not earnings 896 million and our total be gold-plated in the UK to the shareholder return for 2013 was 61%.
This happens already in pensions detriment of our customers.
where auto-enrolment has been a The future is just as exciting.
We now have over a million Regulation that enables consumers scale and financial strength.
We matter workplace pension customers, and to access affordable, relevant financial to the broader economy and are a our scale and efficiency has driven advice and products requires a strong socially useful business: in 2013 BITC down costs for savers: in 2013 we partnership between industry, recognised this by awarding us their capped charges for our pensiongovernment and regulators and this top, platinum, rating for our CSR saving customers at 0.5% and is what we want.
We need to keep programme for the third year running.
improved standard annuity prices improving products: delivering better by approximately 11%.
pricing through greater efficiency: and Thank you for having the confidence providing service levels for customers to invest in us.
Risk-sharing, between the government, that are consistent with our culture, individuals and companies needs to brand and values.
Good value mass-market insurance products covering sickness THE STRENGTH OF OUR PEOPLE or redundancy that reduce the costs of Insurance and investment welfare for governments and taxpayers management are technical NIGEL WILSON are an obvious next step.
businesses, but people businesses GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE too.
We employ some of the best and most committed people in financial services.
Were becoming a destination for talent and are ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 7 80038 L&G p004-017.
