Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GROuP CHIeF eXeCuTIVeS ReVIeW We have reshaped, strengthened and simplified our business to create a low risk, efficient retail and commercial bank that is focused on our customers and on helping Britain prosper.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief executive On a statutory basis, the Group reported a profit before tax of 415 million, Summary compared to a pre-tax loss of 606 million in 2012.
Strong performance in In 2013 the Group delivered a strong performance, underpinned by the rapid our core business and reduced non-core losses were the main drivers behind progress we have made on our strategic objectives, many of which we have the improvement which, together with gains on the sale of government now delivered ahead of plan.
Since we set these objectives in June 2011, we securities of 787 million, was partly offset by charges of 3,455 million for have substantially reduced costs and risk, strengthened our balance sheet and legacy issues, principally Payment Protection Insurance PPI.
Our statutory capital base and increased investment in our core franchise, creating a unique result also included the costs of our Simplification programme and competitive position with a low cost of equity.
We continue to be well placed preparations for the TSB disposal together 1,517 million, and losses on to support our customers and the uK economic recovery and to deliver strong asset sales, including those from capital accretive non-core asset disposals, and sustainable returns to shareholders above our cost of equity.
of this progress, we have substantially improved our underlying performance, returned the Group to profitability in spite of additional legacy costs and in Strengthening the balance sheet September the uK government began returning the Group to full private ownership.
We have also confirmed that the Board expects that it will apply to Over the course of 2013 we made further progress in strengthening the the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA in the second half of 2014 to restart balance sheet and reducing risk, while continuing to manage down our dividend payments, commencing at a modest level.
We substantially strengthened our capital position, with our pro forma fully Results overview loaded common equity tier 1 ratio increasing by 2.2 percentage points to 10.3 per cent, despite the additional legacy charges during the year.
We delivered a substantially improved financial performance in 2013.
Group This uplift was driven by capital generation in the core business, as well as underlying profit more than doubled to 6,166 million when compared to management actions including the reshaping of our core business portfolio, 2012, reflecting improved profitability in the core business and a significant the substantial reduction of non-core assets in a capital accretive manner reduction in non-core losses.
and the payment of dividends of 2.2 billion to the Group by the Insurance On an underlying basis, the Group net interest margin increased 19 basis business.
We reduced non-core assets by 34.9 billion, while at the same points to 2.12 per cent, total costs reduced 5 per cent to 9,635 million time releasing approximately 2.6 billion of capital.
and the impairment charge fell by 47 per cent to 3,004 million, more than The Groups funding structure and liquidity position remain robust.
offsetting a fall in other income, which was down 2 per cent, mainly driven by We further reduced wholesale funding by 32.0 billion, representing a the non-core asset reductions made in the year, which overall were capital 19 per cent decrease in the year, with the proportion of funding with a maturity accretive.
As a result, the Group return on risk-weighted assets improved of less than a year at 32 per cent.
We continue to maintain a strong liquidity 137 basis points to 2.14 per cent.
position including 89.3 billion of cash and highly rated, low risk securities.
We made excellent progress in our core business, where we have returned lending to growth in all our banking divisions, and underlying profit rose 24 per cent to 7,574 million.
This growth in profit was largely driven by an 8 per cent increase in net interest income, and a 21 per cent reduction in the impairment charge.
The return on risk-weighted assets in the core business improved by 72 basis points to 3.26 per cent.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 The 4 per cent increase in customer deposits, together with non-core asset reduction, drove a further improvement in the Groups loan to deposit ratio 5% 6.2bn to 113 per cent at the end of 2013 from 121 per cent at the end of 2012, with the core loan to deposit ratio improving to 100 per cent by the end of 2013.
Reduction in costs underlying profit In acknowledgement of the significant progress we have made in improving the Groups capitalisation and transforming its financial profile, the rating agencies Fitch and Standard & Poors upgraded lloyds Banks standalone rating to bbb in September and December 2013 respectively, and affirmed their long-term credit ratings on lloyds Bank at A.
Substantial further progress in our Simplification programme Legacy Our Simplification programme remains central to the successful delivery of Our results and capital position reflect further provisions for legacy issues our strategy, both in terms of realising further cost savings and efficiencies, taken in 2013 totalling 3,455 million which had a material effect on our and in improving the products and services we offer our customers.
We remain committed to resolving these issues, Through Simplification, we have made excellent progress in improving and while treating our customers fairly.
Of these provisions, 3,050 million related rationalising processes, and reducing layers, suppliers and our non-branch to PPI and 130 million related to the sales of interest rate hedging products property portfolio.
The ongoing programme realised approximately to certain small and medium-sized businesses.
0.6 billion in further cost savings in 2013, generating a total of around We increased our provision for PPI by 1,800 million in the fourth quarter 1.5 billion annual run-rate savings since inception and having identified principally based on revised expectations for complaint volumes, uphold further opportunities we are now increasing our target run-rate savings by a rates, and related administrative costs.
Further detail on the provisions for further 100 million to 2.0 billion by the end of 2014.
The total spent on the legacy issues is given in the Summary of Group results on page 45. programme to the end of 2013 was 1.7 billion.
We have now fully automated the collection of maturity instructions from Reshaping the Group to increase our focus term deposit customers, reducing completion time by approximately on the UK and our core customers 85 per cent, substantially reducing error rates and have completed the transfer of 1.7 million mortgage accounts to a single mortgage platform.
We made a number of asset disposals during 2013, including the sales of Similarly, we have made great strides in delayering the organisation, our shares in St. Jamess Place and the announced disposal of our German increasing spans of control and simplifying the Group so that 98 per cent life insurance operation, Heidelberger leben.
We also continued to increase of employees are now within seven layers.
During 2013 we also made our focus on our core uK business and reduce our international presence, significant progress in reducing the number of legal entities, which completing the sales of our Australian and Spanish banking businesses are now down to 929, a reduction of over 40 per cent since the start and have now exited, or announced the exit from, 21 countries or overseas of the Simplification programme in 2011, and the number of Group branches since June 2011.
Following completion of these exits, we will suppliers was further reduced by 14 per cent to 9,066 in 2013, to around half operate in nine countries, achieving our target of operating in 10 countries the level at the start.
Meanwhile we exited 19 non-branch properties in 2013, or fewer by the end of 2014. reducing the overall total to 161.
In november 2013, we announced that we had agreed to sell our asset All of these changes help to put us firmly on the path to being the best bank management business Scottish Widows Investment Partnership SWIP to for customers, enabling better service by making day-to-day tasks easier and Aberdeen Asset Management Aberdeen for a consideration valued at freeing up colleague time to focus on our customers needs.
We also agreed to enter into a long-term strategic relationship with Aberdeen which is expected to result in a stronger asset management partner for the Group and its customers, combining Investing in the business Aberdeens and SWIPs strengths across asset classes once the sale We are reinvesting a significant proportion of the savings realised from completes, which is expected in the first quarter of 2014.
Simplification to further improve processes and the quality of customer We continue to refresh our operating structure and from the beginning interaction through branches, via the telephone and digital channels.
of 2014 our unified Wealth business will be integrated into the Retail In the second half of the year, we relaunched the lloyds Bank brand, building division.
This will allow us to sharpen our focus on delivering value-added on its 250-year heritage of serving the people and businesses of Britain, to Wealth services to eligible retail customers and will represent a key growth take its place alongside our key high street banking brands, Halifax and opportunity.
We have also moved our Business Banking unit, which Bank of Scotland.
The relaunch of lloyds Bank followed the separation services approximately one million small business customers with less of TSB, which has brought another new challenger to the high street.
complex needs, into Retail, allowing us to draw on the collective expertise The Group has received an agreement in principle from the european of Retail and Commercial Banking colleagues to manage these customer Commission to pursue an Initial Public Offering of TSB as planned in 2014 relationships in a way which leverages existing Retail infrastructure, via and to extend the deadline for the completion of the TSB divestment to the branch, telephony and digital channels.
Our Asset Finance business is the foundation of a newly created Consumer We are continuing to develop and grow our Halifax challenger brand, Finance division, which will also include our consumer and corporate including extending its geographical reach into Scotland, and in 2013 credit card business.
Bringing these business units together will increase Bank of Scotland began its first ever national campaign targeting lending management focus and allow us to capitalise on growth opportunities, to small and medium-sized enterprises SMes.
In Insurance, 2014 has continuing our good momentum in asset-backed lending and with the already seen us relaunch the Scottish Widows brand, refining its focus aim of growing our market presence in credit cards.
Consumer Finance will on providing a more secure financial future for our customers and work in close partnership with Retail and Commercial Banking to ensure we demonstrating our continued commitment to be a leader in the continue to offer our customers excellent customer service.
life planning and retirement market.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 14 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GROuP CHIeF eXeCuTIVeS ReVIeW Our strong portfolio of differentiated brands underlines our commitment to service and to helping our customers with the things that really 6% 80,000 matter planning for the future, enabling them to purchase their home and protecting their families as well as supporting uK business.
Brand Increase in SMe lending Mortgages provided revitalisation is being reinforced by an extensive programme of branch to first-time buyers refurbishment and investment in telephony and digital channels.
We have so far refurbished over 1,500 branches since the Strategic Review, creating bright, modern environments incorporating screenless counters.
We have also introduced active management of our banking halls, increased colleague training and extended opening hours at selected branches, enhancing the September 2013 saw the introduction of a new industry-wide service to overall branch banking experience for our customers.
In turn, this has resulted make it easier and quicker for customers to switch their current account.
Key in a further 11 per cent improvement in net Promoter Scores and a fall in lloyds Banking Group brands are taking part in this scheme, which allows Group reportable banking complaints to 1.0 per 1,000 accounts excluding customers to switch their accounts within seven working days.
This level of complaints represents the lowest of any major uK bank, course of the year switch-ins have exceeded switch-outs by approximately with Halifax leading the way amongst our brands with 0.8 complaints per 144,000, particularly driven by switching into our challenger brand, Halifax.
1,000 accounts, and we expect to maintain this industry leading position.
This is testament to some of the product innovations we have implemented, including loyalty schemes such as Halifaxs Cashback extras, and everyday In telephone banking, we launched a number of improvements to our Offers at lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland, recognising and rewarding the automated Interactive Voice Recognition IVR system in 2013, incorporating faith placed in us by our customers to provide a consistent, high quality service.
the latest speech recognition software to get things right first time when customers call us.
With simplified menu structures, increased service In Commercial Banking, we continue to strengthen our client relationships, functionality and improved call routing, nearly two-thirds of all calls are supporting businesses of all sizes from SMes to Global Corporates.
We fulfilled at point of IVR first contact.
have demonstrated our focus to support clients consistently through the economic cycle with net lending to SMes growing by 6 per cent in 2013 Our digital channels go from strength to strength, with active internet despite a market contraction of 3 per cent: committing over 1.3 billion banking users now increased to over 10.5 million and mobile banking to the uK manufacturing sector by the end of September, exceeding our users to more than four million, and over 1.2 billion log-ons in 2013.
We 1 billion target three months early: and providing finance to approximately have now created a new Digital, Marketing and Customer Development 120,000 start-up enterprises, beating our target by 20,000.
In 2013 function to capitalise on our achievements to date, focusing our investment we continued to approve eight out of 10 business loan and overdraft and ensuring our success in Retail is replicated by sharing digital product applications from SMes.
Meanwhile the Hire Purchase and leasing team development across all divisions.
within Commercial Finance achieved record monthly lending levels.
We have In Commercial Banking we continue to strengthen our capabilities and further supported loan growth by launching a partnership to deliver mobile position ourselves for growth.
In 2013, we launched a new Global Transaction card payment solutions to small businesses which is cutting technology costs Banking platform to support clients in payments, liquidity management and and opening up growth opportunities.
working capital financing, thereby deepening our client relationships by For the ninth year running we were awarded the title of Business Bank fulfilling a broader spectrum of their product needs.
of the Year at the FDs excellence Awards, which are supported by the In General Insurance, we have redesigned our claims process to make it Confederation of British Industry and the Institute of Chartered Accountants more efficient and simpler and as a result, the majority of our Home Claims in england and Wales.
customers are receiving their settlements 30 per cent faster.
Customers In Insurance, we have seen excellent growth in our Corporate Pensions area, making a claim are now looked after by a dedicated advisor throughout the stimulated by the market changes as a result of the Retail Distribution Review life of their claim and regular contact is maintained.
and the support we are giving to our customers in managing the transition to auto-enrolment.
We also launched an enhanced annuity product in Supporting our customers both the intermediary and direct channels, expanding our offering, while and the economic recovery enabling our retail bank customers to secure a higher retirement income via a new online comparison tool.
We continue to enhance our market-leading lloyds Banking Group is the uKs largest retail and commercial lender, bancassurance protection proposition as we look to address the uK and in 2013 we continued to deliver on our pledge to help Britain prosper populations protection gap.
In 2013, we addressed the protection needs and support sustainable economic recovery.
We were the first bank to of 200,000 new customers and paid out around 200 million in claims to access funding from the governments Funding for lending FlS scheme, existing customers.
In General Insurance, in the aftermath of the October and are its largest lender, having committed over 37 billion of gross new and December storms, our Home Claims teams worked hard to offer lending with net core growth of 13 billion since the start of the scheme.
seamless service at a distressing time for many of our customers.
We remain committed to passing on the benefits of this low cost funding to our uK customers.
Within Asset Finance, we were pleased to announce a partnership between our Black Horse business and Jaguar land Rover which will see us provide In Retail, we helped more than 80,000 new homeowners to purchase their lending facilities to over 200 motor dealerships to cover vehicle stock and first home, exceeding our target of 60,000 and advancing mortgages personal finance to customers seeking to purchase a car.
Black Horse also totalling over 9.7 billion.
Through our participation in government schemes enabled customers to make payments via mobile devices this year.
Within such as Help to Buy in the Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands now also Wealth, we also now provide better support and faster advice through a launched under the lloyds Bank brand in 2014, we are providing strong newly inaugurated Private Banking client centre while harnessing the latest support for the recovery in the housing market, by facilitating access to customer relationship management technology, halving the time from initial mortgage financing for creditworthy home buyers at up to 95 per cent of contact to customer interview.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 14 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Our 2013 Colleague Survey had the highest ever participation rate, reaching Regulation over 75 per cent.
There were improvements in scores across all key categories 2013 was an important year for the uKs supervisory framework for financial and we compare favourably with other uK companies.
notably the employee services companies, with two new bodies coming into existence in April, engagement Index eeI, which shows the extent to which colleagues feel the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority, motivated to contribute to the success of the Group, and are willing to apply replacing the FSA.
While uncertainty remains in relation to the impact of discretionary effort to help the business succeed, rose to 64 per cent, 16 points many reforms affecting our industry, both in the uK and from abroad, there higher than in 2012.
Meanwhile, the Performance excellence Index PeI, which is now greater clarity on regulatory capital requirements.
Our simplified, low shows how strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed to delivering, risk, uK focused model is closely aligned to the new regulatory landscape, and continuously improving, high quality products and services to customers, and with the reshaping we have undertaken, we are better positioned than rose to 76 per cent, 8 points higher than in 2012.
There are many factors that ever to adapt to the changes we may face in the future and conduct our influence these scores: the ongoing delivery of our strategy, the achievement day-to-day business in a way that puts our customers needs first.
We also of key milestones, together with the recent start of our return to full private continue to work with the relevant authorities on the evolution of regulation ownership, have all contributed to the improvement in engagement.
connected to the Financial Services Banking Reform Act, although we expect the majority of our operations to be within the ring-fence which this I am also delighted to have announced, as part of our Helping Britain Prosper legislation will create when it comes into effect at the start of 2019.
Plan, that we are moving towards a target of 40 per cent of our most senior roles being held by women by 2020.
We do recognise however, that there is more to be done on our journey to being the best bank for customers and Colleagues amongst the best-rated companies in the uK by our colleagues.
Our success relies on the dedication of colleagues, the service they provide I am proud that, amongst many other accolades received during the year, we to our customers and the long-term partnerships they build with them.
Our were named Best Bank uK at the 2013 euromoney Awards and Bank of the stated aim of becoming the best bank for customers would not be possible Year at The Bankers 2013 Awards.
These awards reflect the strong capabilities without their talent and hard work.
I would like to personally thank all and diligence of our people who continue to support the delivery of our strategy.
colleagues for their tremendous efforts that have enabled us to move further and faster towards our goals in 2013.
Dividends I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our Chairman, Sir Winfried In the second half of 2013, the Group commenced discussions with the Bischoff, who will retire from the Group in April 2014.
His stewardship and PRA on the timetable and conditions for resuming dividend payments.
guidance, in a challenging operating environment both from a regulatory Given the progress the Group has made in substantially strengthening its and economic perspective, have been invaluable.
I look forward to working capital position and improving its financial performance, the PRA has now closely with lord Blackwell, who will take over as Chairman from April, on the confirmed that it will consider the Groups applications to make dividend next steps in the evolution of the Group.
payments in line with its normal procedures for other banks.
We are committed to attracting, retaining and developing our people.
Over In the light of this, and subject to a return to sustainable profitability and 51,000 lloyds Banking Group customer facing colleagues have achieved there being no major unexpected changes in the Groups business outlook the Chartered Banker Foundation Standard for Professional Bankers.
This or regulatory requirements, the Board expects that it will apply to the PRA Standard enables bankers to demonstrate to colleagues and customers in the second half of 2014 to restart dividend payments, commencing at a that they have the knowledge and skills to perform their role, that they take modest level.
The Board expects thereafter to have a progressive dividend responsibility for acting ethically and professionally, and that they adhere policy with the aim of moving, over the medium term, to a dividend payout to the Chartered Banker Code of Professional Conduct to deliver the best ratio of at least 50 per cent of sustainable earnings.
Colleague feedback is highly valued and in 2013, Community Bank and Outlook Telephone Banking colleagues made almost 3,000 suggestions, contributing We have made further substantial progress in 2013 on our strategy to be towards a culture of continuous improvement and innovation, enabling us the best bank for customers.
We delivered a significantly improved financial to deliver more tangible enhancements to our customer offering than ever performance while increasing investment in our core franchise and people, before.
Also vital are our Back to the Floor days which take our senior leaders strengthening our balance sheet and capital position, reducing costs and from the wider Group back into the branches and operational centres to risk, and addressing legacy issues.
experience our services and processes first hand, giving them important insights into how improvements are being implemented.
There is still a lot to do and we are not complacent, but the progress we have made means we have a simpler, more efficient, low risk business, which given the additional investments we are making, is well placed to serve our customers and to help Britain prosper.
We therefore remain confident in 11% 40% the Groups prospects, despite continued regulatory uncertainty, and in our Increase in customer 2020 target for senior roles ability to generate strong and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
service scores held by women Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief executive Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
