14 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Overview This has been another significant year of progress for the Group.
We are fast becoming a truly international organisation, and this year we have continued to innovate and build our global reach, delivering against our diversication strategy and reporting a good financial performance.
Today, the Group has a strong, complementary portfolio of global brands, services and products.
Through our offering, we look to partner with our customers, helping drive their, and our, success across different markets, asset classes and geographies.
Capital raising, risk management, intellectual property and technology provide some of the most exciting opportunities for us.
It is these areas in particular that continue to be a core focus for us.
Quality and excellence As a Group, delivering quality and excellence is embedded in all that we Today, the Group has a strong, do.
MillenniumIT, our world-class proprietary technology business, is now providing market infrastructure technology to over 30 companies around complementary portfolio of the world.
Its low cost, high speed, proven technology delivers best in class capital markets technology and, three years since joining the Group, global brands, services and MillenniumIT has more than fullled our expectations.
The successful migrations of Borsa Italiana, Oslo Brs and Johannesburg Stock Exchange products.
Through our offering, in 2012, have enabled us to fully decommission our legacy platform and are textbook examples of how this low cost, exible, resilient technology we look to partner with our is changing the industry.
Locating our technology locally helps support both customers and regulators and we continue to build on our success, customers, helping drive competing for and winning new business, including contracts with HKeX, LME and a new partnership with Bolsa fide Valores fide Lima.
We also their, and our, success across continued to develop our technology skill set through innovation and partnerships and we recently completed the acquisition of a majority different markets, asset classes stake in GATElab, a highly complementary technology business.
Capital raising, The Groups ability to attract companies, domestic and international, small and large, to list on its markets is reected in a number of high prole risk management, intellectual offerings in the past year including Direct Line, Sberbank and esure in London and Brunello Cucinelli and Moleskine in Milan.
The Group has been a property and technology long term advocate of the need for a fundamental rebalancing of our global economy, away from an excess of bank finance and debt, towards a more provide some of the most stable system where equity plays a greater role in funding growth.
Earlier this year, London Stock Exchange announced plans to launch a new High Growth exciting opportunities for us.
segment on its Main Market to meet the needs of fast growing companies.
Acting as a launch pad, this segment will help companies aspiring to seek a It is these areas in particular premium Main Market listing.
The Group warmly welcomed the abolition of stamp duty in the UK on AIM shares in this years budget, and continues to that continue to be a core work with Government and other stakeholders in promoting and supporting policies that will help innovative, high growth, blue chip companies of focus for us.
Private investor demand for access to xed income has been reected in the performance of the Groups retail bond platforms, MOT in Italy and ORB in the UK.
MOT has over 1,100 listed bonds and regularly sees 1 billion of trading a day.
A new professional segment on ExtraMOT, dedicated to the trading of debt instruments issued by both listed and unlisted Italian companies, has provided companies with a exible and accessible source of finance without an overly extensive listing process.
Over 3 billion has been raised on ORB in the three years since it was launched and the new FTSE ORB Index, which is the first performance benchmark for retail bonds trading on ORB, signies the increasing maturity of the market and growing secondary market liquidity.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Chief Executives statement 15 Our xed income platform, MTS, has responded to the regulatory drive to bring In a natural extension to its existing product offering, UnaVista has applied to efficient, transparent access to European xed income markets.
MTS Credit, become a Trade Repository.
With the increased regulatory obligations coming a pioneering new electronic platform for the trading of euro-denominated into force, UnaVista will be able to provide customers with a simple, one-stop non-government bonds, has signed its first prime bank to the service.
MTS reporting solution for both EMIR and MiFID.
also launched a new daily repo index, RepoFunds Rate.
Management In derivatives, our innovative new derivatives market for durum wheat, AGREX, We have further strengthened the Groups executive management team over commenced trading on our IDEM platform.
The Group continues to develop its the past year to reect our increased diversication and international presence.
position as a leading marketplace for Russian index and equity derivatives.
David Warren and Alexander Justham have both joined the Group, bringing The International Board, which we announced last year, has begun trading in a wealth of experience in financial markets to their respective roles as collaboration with our first partner, Singapore Stock Exchange.
The new trading Group Chief Financial officer and CEO of London Stock Exchange plc.
initiative will extend trading hours for the most actively traded securities in Antoine Shagoury also took on the role of COO in addition to his role as CIO, both markets to around 15 hours each day, providing more opportunities and David Lester was appointed Group Director of Strategy.
Mark Makepeace for investment, trading and risk management for participants in London joined the Executive Committee as Group Director of Information Services.
Over time we believe it could enable the development of 24-hour global trading in cash equities.
The Group has also taken steps, reecting the expanding and changing nature of the Group, to signicantly strengthen its audit and risk management Partnership and innovation capabilities with the appointments of a new Chief Risk officer, Diane Ct, The acquisitions we have made over the past four years have helped to and a Head of Internal Audit.
Diane Ct and Ian Axe, CEO of LCH.
Most notably, MillenniumIT, FTSE and more recently join the Executive Committee following the year end.
the purchase of a majority stake in LCH.
Each of these offer long term diversication, heightened opportunities for Outlook and priorities collaboration and strong growth prospects.
The Group has continued to make significant strides forward in the execution of its stated strategy.
The initiatives we have undertaken over the past few We do not believe in a one size ts all model.
Rather, we believe that our years to become more efficient and to diversify our business have laid the offering needs to be tailored for different customers, markets and geographies.
strong foundations on which to build and drive the Group forward.
Our industry This is particularly true in technology where we locate our technology remains subject to widespread structural change, but the strength and breadth infrastructure close to our customers and regulators, delivering cost, oversight of our business make us well positioned to benefit from these changes, as and commercial advantages to both.
This approach differentiates the way we well as the opportunities presented by an improving economic environment.
operate and has partnership and innovation at its core.
We think this offers the In the year ahead, we will remain rmly focused on achieving the expected optimum product and service for our customers, the optimum strategy for our benets from recent transactions and investment in new products, as well business, and the optimum opportunity for us to deliver value for investors.
as continuing to seek new growth opportunities.
Clearnet brings to the Group greater breadth and depth of offering, new Our active engagement with policymakers around the world promoting safe, customers, new skills and expertise, but above all it champions a customer transparent and successful competitive markets is demonstrating the vital preferred model in multi-asset, multi-venue clearing and risk management role that strong capital market infrastructure plays.
The Groups place in services.
The open access horizontal model is unique in our industry and society has never been more relevant, from job creation by improving access promotes customer choice and collateral efficiency, partnership and to equity nancing for SMEs, to the provision of critical risk management collaboration.
The model is structured in such a way as to give regulators and infrastructure through LCH.
It is our belief that strong capital the market enhanced levels of comfort from the greater systemic resiliency markets infrastructure is a bedrock of economic prosperity.
that open access ultimately provides.
Better, more efficient risk management is a key driver of change in our industry and we believe that LCH.
Clearnet The transformational changes we have made to the Group would not have will be the first choice for a host of new and existing trading venues resulting been possible without the enthusiasm and dedication of our staff across the from the implementation of Dodd-Frank in the US and EMIR in Europe: for globe and I thank them for their unrelenting commitment to the delivery of the simple reason that most competitors operate closed, vertical silos.
The coming year will see us consolidate on the progress we have made.
As ever, there is always more to do, but we are optimistic about the I would like to warmly welcome Jacques Aigrain, Ian Axe, the LCH.
Clearnet year ahead and we will continue to focus on building best in class capabilities, management team and staff across the world, to the Group.
We very much extending our global footprint and to developing opportunities, now with look forward to working together.
Clearnet as part of the Group.
We continue to see the benets of the full inclusion of FTSE in the Group.
FTSEs successful track record of winning new business by competing on product attractiveness, service and innovation was highlighted by Vanguards selection of FTSE as the index benchmark provider for six of their international equity index funds.
It marked the largest ever international index benchmark provider switch and underlines FTSEs continued growth as a global brand.
FTSE further Xavier Rolet reinforced its global business development ambitions with a joint venture Group Chief Executive with TMX Datalinx, which will see it become the third largest xed income ETF index provider globally, with over US$1 trillion in assets under management.
