08 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 CEOs performance review Emmanuel Roman Chief Executive Officer Hedge funds rose an average of 9.3% surpassing returns from 2012 and In 2013 we largely completed the 2011 7.4% and -3.1% respectively and just shy of 2010s 10.5% gain.
There were a range of returns across strategies with equity exposure restructuring of our cost base and providing the industrys best return in 2013, mirroring trends in the balance sheet and made progress broader equity market.
Credit strategies faced a difficult 2013 posting their third lowest annual return since 1998.
Performance was dragged indeveloping and building in new down by directional credit strategies underperforming in the second half business areas, although results of the year, however within this universe there were a few segments that provided solid returns.
Macro hedge funds ended the year slightly positive willonly be seen in the long term.
and while managed futures funds had positive returns in the first and fourth quarters this was not sufficient to overcome heavy losses suffered in May and June 2013.
Notwithstanding this progress, conditions for the business in 2013 remained challenging.
Performance, whilst reasonable on a relative basis, was mixed 2013 results on an absolute basis.
Flows were weak in the first half but showed modest Against this backdrop performance in 2013 was mixed amongst Mans signs of improvement towards the end of the year.
The result was a 5% range of strategies.
Discretionary GLG strategies performed well, FRM reduction in funds under management during the year.
fund of funds strategies performed in line with relevant benchmarks and Market overview despite some quant strategies doing broadly well, our flagship AHL trend The first four months of 2013 saw reduced correlation between asset following strategies had a more difficult year.
classes and the reassertion of trends, off the back of the risk rally triggered FUM decreased to $54.1 billion, mainly as a result of net outflows and by the US fiscal cliff being averted, some positive key data points in the furtherde-gearing in our guaranteed products linked to AHL performance.
US and China and a significant shift of investors from bonds to equities.
Excluding guaranteed products, FUM increased by $0.5 billion with an increase in GLG FUM being partially offset by a decrease in FRM and AHL By contrast the period from mid-May to the end of June proved to be a very MSS FUM.
Adjusted profit before tax for the year was up 8% compared to volatile and difficult one for most markets, as news that the Feds assets 2012 with higher performance fees and cost savings being partially offset by purchase programme could be reduced as early as mid-2013 dominated a decline in management fees reflecting the continued shift in the business sentiment.
Markets viewed the announcement as a signal that the climate towards lower margin product.
of historically low rates and Federal support was likely to end earlier than was previously expected.
Investors reacted negatively and the bond market Update on progress against strategic priorities sold-off as investors fide-levered and fide-risked fixed income portfolios.
During the year we have made progress against the strategic priorities Market volatility continued over the summer and into September, driven by setout in last years annual report aimed at positioning the firm for future the perceived likelihood of a premature end to US economic stimulus.
As a growth, whilst controlling costs and maximising the efficiency of our result developed market equities pushed higher, whilst developed market balance sheet.
spreads continued to tighten, US treasury yields increased marginally and emerging equity markets suffered.
These themes continued into the fourth quarter however volatility reduced significantly.
As a consequence risk assets in developed markets performed well overall in 2013, the TOPIX was up 56%, the S&P 500 was up 29.6% and the FTSE 100 was up 14%.
Fixed income markets had a difficult year with bonds and corporate bonds ending the year up 0.2% and down 7.1% respectively.
Strategic report 09 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Performance Deliver strong risk adjusted long-term investment performance AHL and MSS combined creating one centralised investment function for quantitative strategies Mixed absolute performance in quant strategies AHL Evolution strategy up 16.9%, AHL Diversified strategy down 3.1% Reasonable relative performance with AHL beating 2 out of its 3 key peers Strong performance across the majority of GLG strategies on a risk adjusted basis Top quartile performance from our Japan equities strategy which was up 64.6% in 2013 Improved relative performance in the diversified FRM portfolios Investment performance remains the most important factor in our success.
Performance across AHL MSS funds We aim to generate superior risk-adjusted returns for our fund investors through the quality of our research, the talent of our investment managers and the strength of our operations and risk infrastructures.
During 2013 16.9% 30 performance increased FUM by $4.3 billion, a blended return across the business of 7.9%, with particularly strong performance being generated by 20 3.0% our discretionary strategies.
10 AHL MSS 0 At the beginning of 2013, Man strengthened its quantitative capabilities by combining AHL with MSS to form one centralised investment function for -10 quantitative strategies.
By uniting AHLs deep experience in the managed -1.9% -3.1% futures space and MSSs breadth of quantitative investment knowledge, Man -20 AHL Diversied AHL Alpha AHL Dimension AHL Evolution aims to enhance the quantitative research process with the goal of improving products and performance.
Led by Executive Chairman Tim Wong and CEO Credit Metals Energy Sandy Rattray, AHL MSS now manages several systematic portfolios, Agriculturals Bonds Interest Rates including managed futures, quantitative multi-strategy, equity alpha-capture, Stocks Currencies tail protection and sector-focused funds.
Our aim is to create a broad based quant business and have already made progress in this regard, with 34% of Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
AHL MSS FUM now away from the historical core trend following strategies.
Sector attribution shown net of fees: 2013 net performance shown in gures above below bars.
Performance during 2013 was strong for several AHL MSS strategies.
AHL Diversied: Represented by Man AHL Diversied Guernsey USD Shares Class A which is valued weekly: however, for comparative purposes, statistics have been calculated using the best TheAHL Evolution strategy was up 16.9%.
Our MSS TailProtect strategy quality price that is available at each calendar year end, using estimates where a final price is performed well ahead of its relevant benchmark and most other MSS unavailable.
AHL Alpha: Represented by AHL Strategies PCC Limited: Class Y AHL Alpha USD strategies outperformed their benchmarks in 2013: the newly-launched Shares which is valued weekly: however, for comparative purposes, statistics have been calculated using the best quality price that is available at each calendar year end, using estimates where a final Asiaand Continental Europe ETFs performed particularly well.
In contrast price is unavailable.
AHL Dimension: Represented by AHL Strategies PCC Limited: Class B AHL performance was once again difficult for flagship managed futures funds Dimension USD Shares.
AHL Evolution: Represented by AHL Cayman SPC: Class A1 Evolution with trends in risk assets e. g. equities, credit and precious metals being USD Shares.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.
Returns may increase or decrease as a result of offset by reversals in fixed income and currencies, particularly during the currency uctuations.
Assumptions have been applied to the calculation of sector contribution second quarter as can be seen in the chart opposite.
The result was to show contribution net of fees.
The sector contribution is only intended to be indicative.
thatperformance for the AHL Diversified Programme was down 3.1% to 31December 2013 and AHL Alpha, the lower-volatility strategy, was down GLG 1.9%.
The performance KPI for AHL is the AHL Diversified strategy versus 2013 has been a positive year for GLG with good absolute performance three key peer asset managers the target being to beat two of the three across a broad range of our Alternative and Long only strategies.
This peers and as such AHL met the target for 2013. strong absolute performance resulted in GLG recording $155 million of gross performance fees in 2013.
Over the course of the year, our research effort bore fruit.
As an example, our fixed income team refined its models in the second half to deal better Amongst our alternative funds our credit strategies delivered another year with a future rate environment, which is unlikely to echo the steady yield of double digit net returns.
Our equity strategies have delivered solid declines observed over the past few decades.
In addition, research into single digit returns with low volatility and the European Long-Short and new markets continued apace: they remain a key differentiator for European Alpha strategies in particular have seen significant client managed futures strategies and over 70 markets were added to the interest throughout the year.
Some of the stronger performers included Evolution strategy portfolio in 2013. the Euro Distressed strategy 12.4%, the European Long-Short strategy 7.1%, the Asian equities strategy 7.2% and the Market Neutral strategy 10.3%.
10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 CEOs performance review continued Strategic update FRM GLG track record 1 April 1997 to 31 December 2013 FRM had a broadly positive first six months of the year as market conditions improved from 2012: dispersion between assets rose, and investor inflows resulted in more fundamentally driven pricing, particularly in equities.
Both 6,000 Credit Long Short and Equity Long Short managers were among the topperforming styles.
Q3 was a weaker period for performance.
The 5,000 adjustment of the world to higher bond yields resultedin a pause in the return generation of many systematic strategies: managed futures were 4,000 hitparticularly hard, but Statistical Arbitrage also struggled as a result of theshift in the correlation structure.
With the stabilisation of rates in Q4, stronger performance returned across the majority of strategies.
Over the 3,000 year as a whole, the strongest performing strategies were Equity LongShort and Credit Long-Short, closely followed by Statistical Arbitrage.
2,000 Global Macro, both discretionary and systematic, was the weakest strategy.
1,000 Assets under management declined due to a combination of adverse FX movements, structured product deleveraging and client redemptions.
The 0 performance in the diversified portfolios improved, FRM Diversified II was up 7.0%, with some client specific portfolios also above 7%.
Thematic portfolio performance was more mixed, with managed futures performing in line with the industry, however our Statistical Arbitrage portfolio 1 GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite generated positive returns and was up 6.7%.
The KPI for FRM is FRM 2 GLG Long Only Dollar-Weighted Composite Diversified II versus the HFRI conservative fund of fund index, which was Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund not met in 2013 as this strategy carries less equity market beta than other HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index World Stocks fund of fund strategies.
31 12 200831 12 2013 Source: Man database, Bloomberg and MSCI.
There is no guarantee of trading Annualised performance and past or projected performance is not a reliable indicator of future return over Annualised performance.
Returns may increase or decrease as a result of currency uctuations.
cash volatility Sharpe Beta Please note that the HFRI index performance over the past four months is subject FRM Diversified II Fund to change.
World stocks: MSCI World Net Total Return Index hedged to USD.
1 SPC USD Class B 6.00% 2.78% 2.15 0.08 HFRX Global Hedge 1 Represented by the GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite.
GLG alternative strategy dollar-weighted average returns are calculated Fund Index 3.46% 4.34% 0.80 0.19 as the composite performance of the alternative strategy funds and funds that have HFRI FOF Conservative closed, in addition to managed accounts managed in accordance with alternative Index 3.96% 3.01% 1.31 0.12 strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
HFRI FOF Diversified Index 4.73% 3.80% 1.24 0.16 2 Represented by the GLG Long Only Dollar-Weighted Composite.
GLG long only dollar-weighted average returns are calculated as the composite performance of the long only strategy funds and funds that have closed, in addition to managed accounts Source: Bloomberg, HFR Reports, FRM database.
managed in accordance with long only strategies, weighted by the sum of the prior month-end AUM.
1 Represented by FRM Diversified II Fund SPC Class B USD.
The majority of equity and credit strategies performed in line with or Objectives for 2014 exceeded the relevant benchmarks but the atlas macro and emerging markets strategies performed below benchmarks.
The performance KPI Build out quantitative platform to provide a wider range of trend and for GLG is the GLG alternative dollar-weighted composite versus the non-trend following products HFRX, this KPI was not met in 2013, mainly due to the fact that a number Continued focus on research at AHL MSS to build new markets and of GLGs largest and strongest performing strategies are market neutral asset classes by design in contrast to much of the hedge fund industry.
At GLG we continue to look for high-calibre investment talent to We are pleased with the breadth of performance across our long only support the growth of our existing products as well as to support the strategies during the year with almost all strategies outperforming their expansion of our product offering peers.
Our Japan equities strategy continued its long track record of Revamp managed accounts platform within FRM excellent performance and was up 64.6% in Yen terms, more than 10% ahead of the TOPIX benchmark.
Our Global, European and UK equity strategies also performed strongly up between 24% and 30% and our convertible credit strategies also delivered strong returns.
We continue tobuild track records in other long only strategies and as a result we are seeing client interest across a broad range of long only strategies.
Mar 97 Sep 97 Mar 98 Sep 98 Mar 99 Sep 99 Mar 00 Sep 00 Mar 01 Sep 01 Mar 02 Sep 02 Mar 03 Sep 03 Mar 04 Sep 04 Mar 05 Sep 05 Mar 06 Sep 06 Mar 07 Sep 07 Mar 08 Sep 08 Mar 09 Sep 09 Mar 10 Sep 10 Mar 11 Sep 11 Mar 12 Sep 12 Mar 13 Sep 13 Strategic report 11 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Growth Focus on generating high-alpha investment opportunities $1 billion raised in the AHL Evolution strategy in 2013 Asia and Continental Europe ETFs launched Launch of Total Return, US CLO and Global equity strategies at GLG Significant hires at GLG into the Multi-strategy, UK Equity, Financials, Macro and Relative Value teams Launched a number of managed account only diversified portfolios at FRM as well as increasing opportunities inmanaged account infrastructure services Early in 2013, we identified a clear set of growth initiatives on the The growth of the long only business continues to be a key objective for us.
investment management and product side.
These initiatives were: In September we hired Henry Dixon from Charles Stanley to run a UK Undervalued Asset strategy and to take over management of the UK 1.
Building a diversified quant business in AHL equities income strategy.
James Ind joined during the year to lead the 2.
Adding new investment teams in GLG alternatives portfolio management of a value-driven total return strategy which was 3.
Building our long only franchise launched at the end of July 2013.
Our flexible bond strategy is also seeing 4.
Developing our managed accounts platform at FRM client interest into 2014.
We have made good progress against these initiatives in 2013 and during 2013 has seen a number of positive developments at FRM: the successful 2014 we will continue to build on these as well as identifying further integration of two legacy technology systems following the merger last opportunities for growth.
year: the launch of the second phase of our risk and transparency reporting software for the managed account platform, which materially On the quantitative side the marketing of the AHL Evolution strategy has improves the value of the platform to investors: and the launch of a gone well and we reached our target of raising $1 billion in this product number of managed account only diversified portfolios, initially focused with the asset raising coming from institutional investors in all regions of on clients in the Japanese market.
Further capacity has been created in this strategy and as such we will be marketing an additional $750 million of the AHL Evolution Looking ahead to 2014 the main focus will be on offering the resources strategy in 2014.
In September we launched Asia and Continental Europe ofFRM as a service.
Our goal is to work closely with clients in each region ETFs, a series of long only products similar to the Europe ETFs strategy on the services that best fit their needs.
We are seeing increasing interest which has $1.4 billion of assets.
from US institutions who are looking for control and transparency, as wellas financial institutions with the need to fulfil regulatory reporting Looking forward into 2014, we will start marketing the AHL Dimension requirements.
By contrast, we see increasing client interest in Asia for strategy, a multi-strategy quant product which will be targeted at direct co-investment into our existing platform and will focus on direct institutional investors, and are looking to launch a global version of access in this region as a result.
In addition to these initiatives, we continue to look for opportunities to On the discretionary side at GLG we launched a number of new, scalable growthe business through selective acquisitions.
In assessing these investment strategies during the year.
All of these funds saw allocations opportunities, we will remain disciplined on price, structure and cultural fit from clients following their launch and we will seek to build on that to ensure that any proposed transaction represents a sound use of capital.
Objectives for 2014 On the equity side we have added additional teams to the European Start marketing the AHL Dimension strategy and market an additional Long-Short strategy to create further capacity.
A Global Long-Short strategy $750 million of the AHL Evolution strategy which operates a similar investment process to the European Long-Short strategy was launched at the beginning of October 2013 and we have raised Focus on building assets in GLG products launched in 2014 and on over $300 million in this strategy since launch.
Asset raising in the Asia developing long only offering equity strategy launched in 2012 has been slow, however the strategy had Look to offer the resources of FRM as a service to investors who need strong performance in 2013 and with the launch of a UCITS vehicle linked help with either building or maintaining open architecture alternative tothe strategy in December 2013 we expect demand to pick up.
investment programmes A global rates strategy was launched in October and it pursues a Fixed Continue to look at other possible bolt-on acquisitions ensuring that Income Absolute Return strategy and is managed by the Macro and we remain disciplined on price, structure and cultural fit Relative Value Team.
In August we closed a $400 million CLO in the US, our first one since the crisis and we are looking to grow our CLO business during 2014.
12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 CEOs performance review continued Strategic update Distribution Ensure distribution effectiveness Net outflows of $3.6 billion in 2013 compared to $7.3 billion in 2012 26% increase in sales during the year, 13% increase in institutional sales and 42% increase in retail sales Continued restructuring of the sales team and focused hiring of talent Under the QDLP programme selected as one of six hedge funds allowed to market international products toonshoreinvestors in China Continued focus on the US but significant progress may not be seen for some time Net outflows for the year were $3.6 billion compared to $7.3 billion in 2012 Progress has also been made in China, where under the QDLP and excluding guaranteed products net outflows for the year were $2.4 programme we were officially selected as one of six hedge funds allowed billion.
Gross sales were $16.1 billion with 40% of the sales achieved in the to market international products to onshore investors for the first time.
first half and 60% in the second half, driven in particular by strong sales at GLG.
Institutional sales in 2013 were $8.6 billion, 13% higher than in 2012.
The Americas, and the US in particular, remains a key geographical focus We saw a pick up in demand in the retail space with a 44% increase in year for future growth.
Further hires have been made during the year and we on year sales from $5.2 billion in 2012 to $7.5 billion in 2013, the main driver achieved sales of $1.1 billion in 2013 with sales of the European Longof the increase being sales of the Japan Equities strategy to UK retail Short strategy and the US CLO making up the majority of the sales.
Redemptions were $19.7 billion, $18.5 billion excluding potential in this huge market is very significant and the team continues to guaranteed products reflecting fragile investor sentiment and mixed make good progress however we expect it will take time before we see levelsof absolute investment performance across the product range.
We are assessing our capabilities in the mutual fund space and aim to bring a selective number of liquid alternatives strategies Following Christoph Mllers retirement in June, we split the role of Head to the mutual fund market in 2014. of Sales: Tim Rainsford previously Head of European Sales is now in charge of all regions outside the US: whilst Tim Gullickson has assumed Globally we continue to work hard on our consultant relationships the function of Head of Sales in the US, with a focus on institutional andsince the beginning of the year we have received an additional four clients.
Eric Burl COO of the US business is looking after US retail strong buy ratings and positive momentum on seven additional strategies.
A number of other changes have also been made throughout Consultant coverage of Man has increased from 35 products in January the sales team, with the overall objective of making it leaner and 2010 to 116 today and we have maintained 25 strong buy ratings.
From a increasingly focused on institutional clients without losing meaningful retail perspective we are still represented on over 10 global private optionality from a retail perspective.
Europe and the Middle East remains a key market for us with over The new marketing incentive programme is now in place, providing two-thirds of our assets coming from this region and again we have improved alignment with shareholders by rewarding our sales people refocused the sales effort in countries where we believe there to be the based on annual management fees earned, net of expenses, rather than most asset raising potential.
We have hired a new person to run the sales gross sales.
effort in Italy and have restructured the sales team in the Middle East.
Objectives for 2014 In the Asia Pacific region, a region which historically served a number of Focus on making the sales team leaner and increasingly focused on retail investors in guaranteed products, we have consolidated offices and institutional clients without losing optionality from a retail perspective refocused the sales effort.
While we still see significant potential for asset raising in the region, particularly in Japan and Australia, servicing existing Develop further consultant relationships and expand the number of clients and managing future growth can be served from three offices as funds represented on private banking platforms opposed to five.
We have therefore shut down our office in Singapore with Improve coverage and traction in the US by selectively adding quality people relocating to Hong Kong or London and have integrated the two to the institutional sales team sales offices we had in Japan following the FRM acquisition.
In Australia, an office which grew around our guaranteed product business, we are re-focusing the operations to target institutional business, and we have hired Jamie Douglas, previously with JPM and Moore Capital, to head up that office.
Strategic report 13 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Efficiency Cost reduction and maintaining balance sheet efficiency Cost savings announced during 2012 and 2013 total $270 million On track to deliver all of these savings by the end of 2015 Change in regulatory status from Full Scope to Limited Licence agreed with the FCA reducing the Groups capital requirement by around $550 million Repayment of all outstanding debt completed in August 2013 Reductions in loans to funds in the balance sheet Surplus capital of $760 million at 31 December 2013 Cost reduction In May we announced that we were using some of our surplus capital to We continue to be on track to meet the 2015 cost targets on a repay all of our debt and hybrid instruments resulting in annualised constantcurrency basis.
We were ahead of schedule in 2013 with fixed interest and coupon savings of $78 million.
This repayment programme compensation costs of $188 million for the year versus the $211 million was completed on 7 August when the perpetual Tier 1 hybrid was repaid.
Other cash costs were $191 million versus the $219 million target.
Non-compensation expenses have been reduced materially and The remaining surplus capital we have will be used for a suitable buffer significant attention is being given to running the business as efficiently as against the core capital requirement, organic growth requirements and possible.
We reduced the space we occupy in our head office in Riverbank acquisition opportunities.
After assessing these requirements and House during the year to match our requirements and consolidated offices opportunities, distributions to shareholders, whether through dividends in other regions which accounted for 15% of the additional savings orbuybacks, will be considered.
At present we consider that there are announced in August this year.
Headcount has been reduced from 1,876 potential opportunities to deploy surplus capital and so do not intend to at30 June 2011 to 1,115 at 31 December 2013, 532 in front office functions make a determination regarding distributions in excess of our stated and 583 in group business functions.
We seek to remain disciplined, however, in the use of capital whether organically or for acquisitions.
Balance sheet efficiency Our balance sheet remains strong and liquid and in 2013 we made Objectives for 2014 significant progress to improve our capital position and balance sheet Ensure cost reduction programmes remain on track efficiency.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had tangible net assets of $1.1 billion or 58 cents per share, cash of $1.0 billion and over $2.5 billion Completion of outsourcing programme of liquidity.
Maintain focus on cost and balance sheet efficiency In April 2013 we announced a change in regulatory status from being a Full Scope group to a Limited Licence group.
This increased our surplus capital by up to $550 million subject to the FCAs review of a revised ICAAP submitted as part of the change in status.
This review was completed at the end of December and their review did not materially change the Groups capital requirement.
As such the Groups surplus capital at 31 December 2013 was $760 million.
Outlook In comparison to the risk on environment we saw for most of 2013, asset Looking forward, the overall operating environment continues to be price movements at the start of 2014 have clearly represented a swing challenging: whilst flows are better in places, performance the single towards risk off with emerging market assets being hit particularly hard.
most important driver of our success remains mixed.
After a very In this context, our trend following strategies lost money as gains in bonds strong year in equity markets in 2013, it is difficult to have high levels and agriculturals couldnt offset losses in equities.
Most of our long only ofconviction in many asset classes and geographies.
Accordingly strategies are down, however they are still outperforming their weremain cautious in our outlook, endeavouring to generate superior benchmarks.
The market neutral stance of our GLG alternative strategies risk-adjusted returns for our clients whilst maintaining our focus has proved beneficial, with most of the equity and credit funds having onbuilding and developing options for growth and running our positive performance year to date unlike our Macro, Emerging Markets businessefficiently.
The conservative nature of FRMs funds has also proved advantageous with performance amongst the majority of funds either flat or slightly positive in January.
