10 CEOs review T ransforming our business 2013 was a challenging year for our business, but it also marked a turning point as we increased our focus on nationally regulated and to-be-regulated markets, began to roll-out new and refreshed versions of our mobile and desktop products, and commenced the transformation of our technology Hear from Norbert online bwinparty.
Norbert Teufelberger CEO 2013 results Whilst disappointing, this masks good progress on several key objectives: we With further shifts towards regulated increased the proportion of our business frameworks in several markets, we in regulated and or taxed markets having optimised the shape and size of our launched into Belgium and New Jersey: business with the aim of returning to we began the transformation of our growth in 2014.
While focusing on fewer software delivery process with our shift markets would reduce revenues it would to an Agile working methodology: we also allow us to reduce our cost base launched our new poker product: we grew significantly, and we delivered 97m the proportion of our revenue coming of cost savings in 2013 compared with through mobile and touch and introduced our original target of 70m of savings.
our new mobile product for sports betting However, ISP blocking in Greece, poker in Spain.
market declines in France and Italy as well as losses associated with the migration of Total operating profit was 51.9m players to our new technology platform 2012:operating loss of 55.7m reflecting in December 2012, meant that revenues the absence of retroactive taxes and declined by more than we had expected.
lower amortisation costs as well as Total revenue declined by 19% and total the write-back of acquisition fair value Clean EBITDA fell by 35% year-on-year.
provisions following the successful bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 11 settlement of the outstanding disputes.
Having provided 85.7m at the time of the Merger, the settlement now agreed with the authorities is for 1.9m resulting in a writeback of 83.8m and a transfer to creditors of the balance.
Consequently, the Group delivered a profit after tax of 41.1m 2012:loss after tax of 64.7m.
A detailed analysis of our performance in 2013 is covered in the Business and financial review 2013 on pages 42 to 51.
Market backdrop Opting to reduce revenue and downsize our business is not a natural choice for an entrepreneurial enterprise like ours, but it was clear that in order to maximise our bwin extended its sponsorship of MotoGP in 2013 long-term prospects we had to focus our operations on fewer and more sustainable The opportunity additional taxes, the transition to markets a process that initially would fragmented, nationally regulated digital As set out in the investment case on pages result in lower revenues and Clean EBITDA.
gaming markets is inevitable, as are the 4 to 7, despite an increasingly complex Whilst painful to execute, we are now in increasing demands of the modern digital business environment, we believe that a stronger position from which we can consumer.
Our strategy has been set to the market opportunity for real money begin to move forward evidenced by maximise the long-term potential of our gaming through digital channels is set to the sequential revenue growth we have business model in this fast changing and expand.
While the structure and dynamics delivered since the third quarter of 2013. complex environment.
vary for each of our core gaming verticals As we predicted several years ago, sports betting, casino & games, poker The five pillars of our strategy have not the regulatory landscape for online and bingo, we have established leading changed since bwin.
party was first gaming has continued to fragment with positions in most products and in most conceived as a new entity back in the governments ring-fencing their online territories see Markets and regulatory summer of 2010.
As summarised on pages gaming markets.
This development, overview on pages 26 to 37.
16 to 25, each pillar is focused on either together with the introduction of new improving accessibility to our products, We are determined to monetise the national taxes on gaming and increased enhancing the appeal of our products, or opportunity before us by making our complexity, have combined to reduce both.
Our long-term success will be driven products accessible in regulated markets, financial returns.
by our ability to execute against each through as many channels and on as strategic pillar and we have established In 2013, while we were impacted by the many different devices as we can.
But to a series of key performance indicators introduction of ISP blocking in Greece, we be truly successful, we also need to ensure KPIs against which our success and secured regulatory clearance to operate that our products appeal to the largest 17 future progress can be measured see Our in both Belgium and New Jersey.
We do possible audience over the mediumbusiness model and KPIs onpages8 and 9. not anticipate any significant markets term.
These two factors: accessibility and will implement new regulations in 2014, customer appeal define the core drivers Implementing our strategy however several markets are continuing of our business model that is focused on Online operators have adopted different to develop regulatory frameworks driving sustainable growth in revenue and approaches in order to harness the online that may come into force during 2015.
gaming opportunity and our own path In addition, the UK intends to revise its Strategy for growth is different from most.
While many have existing regime as well as introduce sought to embed third-party software The shift towards regulation means that a point-of-consumption tax from into their existing franchise, we have the previous, so-called dotcom approach December 2014. developed almost all of the requisite to online gaming markets: one product A summary of key regulatory developments technological skills and assets in-house.
sports, poker, casino & games or bingo, affecting the Group can be found on pages However, recognising that we do not have one channel worldwide web and one 40and 41. a monopoly on good ideas, we have also domain dotcom, is no longer sustainable.
developed the requisite tools to enable With governments seeking to raise third-party developers to connect to 17 The Group received an E-Licence to offer services in Belgium on 6 March 2013: and a transactional waiver from the Division of Gaming Enforcement in New Jersey on 8November 2013 12 CEOs review our systems through open application Achievements in 2013 Second, the launch of our network in programming interfaces APIs, thereby New Jersey at the end of November 2013 As summarised in the Business and maximising the potential product offering was a key milestone for us in expanding financial review on pages 42 to 51, for our customers.
Our objective is to our presence in regulated markets.
our results last year were below what 18 reach our customers using a flexible, Having secured the leadership position, we had initially expected to achieve.
modular, scalable and highly resilient we remain optimistic that New Jersey While external and some internal factors technology platform: one that provides will continue to grow and become an such as migration losses meant that the easy access to games through traditional, attractive and profitable market for rebasing of our business was more painful as well as new digital channels including us, although as already announced, than we had anticipated, we made solid mobile and social platforms: can we do notbelieve that we will achieve progress against many of the operational easily switch between B2C as well as profitability there until 2015. objectives set out in my review last year B2B business models: and that can be and are now well-positioned to return to Third, innovating our core gaming tailored to meet prevailing regulatory growth.
I do not propose to go through all products and improving the experience requirements and demands that continue of these achievements, but there are three of our customers was another key to vary from market-to-market.
The first version We acknowledge that, to date at least, of our new poker product went live in First, increasing the proportion of we have yet to realise the full potential September but so far has only been our business coming from nationally of what we are building.
However, we are available to our dotcom customers and regulated and or taxed markets was a starting to see what can be achieved the recently opened New Jersey market key objective.
The shift from volume to being able to launch new product labels together representing approximately value saw us reduce or discontinue new through multiple channels quickly and 65% of our total active customer base customer acquisition in 18 countries and at low cost into newly regulated markets inDecember 2013. shift our focus onto the more sustainable is the acid test.
Our early success in New regulated markets.
As explained below, Jersey has proven what is now possible.
whilst we successfully reduced our exposure to territories without nationally Guy Duncan, who joined us as Director of regulated frameworks, a number of The launch of our network Product and Technology a little over a year regulated markets actually shrank in 2013 ago, provides a more detailed overview in New Jersey at the end due to macroeconomic and other factors of our future plans and objectives for of2013 was a key and this affected our overall revenue and technology on pages 38 and 39.
milestone for us Managing key risks The online gaming sector has to contend with continuous regulatory, technological and fiscal change as part of its day-to-day business.
How each of these factors and other specific risks can affect our business, the steps we take to mitigate their impact and how we believe they have changed over the past 12 months are summarised on pages 52 and 53.
Regulatory change remains one of our biggest challenges but we have developed significant experience and invested in the resources needed to manage this risk as well as seize the opportunities that also arise from regulatory change.
While regulation and other external factors are largely outside our control, through a coherent risk management framework we are able to sustain our business model as well as identify new opportunities for future growth.
partypoker became a sponsorship partner of the New Jersey Devils in January 2014 18 Division of Gaming Enforcement February 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 13 Given the challenging market backdrop in Europe, we are pleased with the new products performance to date and plan to enhance our offer and add many more features throughout 2014 that we believe will help to drive additional growth.
During 2014 we plan to roll-out the new product to more countries, increasing its coverage of our total active base.
Our new mobile sports betting product launched into Spain in December 2013 and, once through its initial testing phase, will be launched in other key markets during 2014.
Each of these product enhancements will be complemented by a marked improvement in our digital marketing capabilities, leveraging our extensive international player base.
Each of these initiatives represent important steps towards returning our Our blindfold challenge with Manchester United went viral with 3 million views: see www.
com bwin business to growth.
Things we still need to do In our half year results presentation in Mobile touch August 2013 we talked about addressing Despite having delivered against Second, the explosion in mobile touch what we call technical debt areas of many of our objectives for 2013, there represents a major opportunity for our software and technology set-up were some items that we have yet the Group and we are determined to that need to be improved and updated to complete.
Whilst we made good increase our mobile footprint significantly.
to ensure maximum platform stability progress towards achieving our target Having been held back from releasing and a smooth user experience.
With the technology platform, we still have further cutting-edge mobile products until now demands of many other projects in 2013 work to do and as a result continue to due to other priorities, we believe there we still have work to do in order to reduce run duplicate technologies across our is an opportunity to replicate the success the level of technical debt further and this platforms in France and Italy.
Delays to achieved on mobile touch by several is scheduled to take place during the first the launch of our new poker software operators in the UK, across each of our half of 2014. in dotcom markets until September core markets in Europe as well as the US.
2013, coupled with the launch into New Our new sports betting application for Plans for 2014 and KPI targets for 2015 Jersey in November, meant we were mobile that is built in HTML5 will be rolledFocus on sustainable markets unable to integrate France and Italy out across key markets later this year.
during the year as we had originally Against this backdrop, our plans for 2014 Increase productivity intended.
Both integrations are now are clear: first, we will continue to focus scheduled to take place later this year, on nationally taxed, regulated and to-beNow that we are emerging from the releasing additional synergies in 2015 and regulated markets.
This will include the complex integration of our multiple simplifying our operations further.
US where we want to consolidate our technology platforms, we are determined market-leading position in New Jersey to deliver a marked improvement in Some late changes to design and user as well as secure market entry into other productivity, stability and speed to market experience meant that there were some states that pass the requisite legislation during 2014.
This will be assisted by our delays in launching mobile applications and that represent a significant business transition to the Agile development for our new poker product before the opportunity for us.
For further details on year-end.
However, we are now live in New ourtransition see pages 38 and 39.
Jersey on iOS and Android and expect As part of our desire to increase focus, to launch a number of new features we will look to divest non-core assets including sit n go tournaments and an in order to further reduce complexity HTML5 version of FastForward within the and costs.
Any surplus funds raised from next few weeks.
disposals will be returned to shareholders when appropriate.
14 CEOs review The FIFA World Cup in Brazil is expected to stimulate overall betting volumes in the summer of 2014 We are determined For these three plans, ourKPIs are t For both our US and non-US technology as follows: platforms we are aiming to increase toincrease our significantly the volume of technology t By the end of 2015 we plan to have mobile footprint releases delivered each year and 75% of our net revenue coming from signicantly improve the availability of our services.
nationally taxed and or regulated Having implemented seven major thatrepresents a 19 markets.
Having shifted our tactics platform releases on our non-US major opportunity from volume to value during 2013, we platform in 2013, this will increase to 11 had already reached 53% of net revenue for the Group releases in 2014 and our target is to be coming from these markets in 2013 able to deliver 24 platform releases and and want to continue to build on the 52 gaming-related releases per annum positive start that we have made in New by the end of 2015, all of which will Jersey where our network currently has help to ensure that we deliver on our 20 an approximate 40% market share.
By the end of 2015 we want to continue to command a leadership position Board changes in New Jersey and aim, legislation Back in November 2013, Simon Duffy, permitting, to have launched into at Non-Executive Chairman notified the least one other state: Board of his intention not to stand for re-election to the Board at the t In mobile, we have big ambitions.
The Board wishes to Users that typically use mobile as well thank Simon for his contribution over as desktop devices tend to be higher thepast three years and wishes him value players.
Therefore, we are aiming every success for the future.
As previously to increase the proportion of our gross announced, a process is underway, led gaming revenue that comes through by the Independent Directors, to find mobile and touch devices from 10% in Simons successor.
2013 to 50% by December 2015: and 19 C urrently Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany sportsbetting, Italy, Spain, UK and US New Jersey 20 Division of Gaming Enforcement February 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 15 Share repurchases While New Jersey has yet to reach its Shareholders wishing to receive full potential because of geolocation dividendsin euros rather than pounds Using the authorities granted by and payment processing issues that sterling will need to file a currency election shareholders at the 2012 and 2013 AGMs are continuing to impact all operators, and return it to the Groups registrars on to repurchase up to 10% of the Companys the Group has made a solid start in this or before 2 May 2014.
Further information issued share capital, in 2013 the Company newly regulated market.
Despite the regarding the final dividend is set out in bought back 2,635,677 shares for headwinds of lost revenue from Greece the AGM Notice.
cancellation at a total cost, including and continued pressures in European commission, of 3,513,586.
The Company Norbert Teufelberger poker, based on the Groups performance has purchased 500,000 shares for CEO to date and the planned developments cancellation since the year-end at a total outlined below, we are confident that cost, including commission, of 577,437. we can deliver year-on-year revenue and The total number of bwin.
party shares in Clean EBITDA growth in 2014. issue as at 11 March 2014 was 817,477,478 and the total number of voting rights in Dividend issue was 814,398,097 total number of The Board is recommending a 5% shares in issue minus 3,079,381 shares held increase in the final dividend to 1.80p per by the employee benefit trust in respect of share which together with the interim which the voting rights have been waived.
dividend of 1.80p per share makes a total Current trading, outlook and dividend of 3.60p per share for the year final dividend ended 31 December 2013 2012: 3.44p.
The final dividend, if approved at the Trading in the first ten weeks of 2014 Annual General Meeting, will be payable has been in line with our expectations to shareholders on the register of with average daily net revenue down shareholder interests on 25 April 2014 10% year-on-year primarily due to the the Record Date.
It is expected that tactical shift from volume to value dividends will be paid on 28 May 2014. but up 6% versus the previous quarter and with nationally regulated and or taxed markets representing 56% of net revenue.
While our shift from volume to value means that our year-on-year performance remains down versus 2014, we have achieved sequential growth since the third quarter of 2013, in line withour guidance.
partypoker partnered withthe Philadelphia 76ers in January 2014
