2012 13 has been a successful year for Cable & Wireless Chief Executives review Communications, and brought our business to a key inflection point.
We have set a target of As a Group we achieved structural coherence following our announced divestments of the Macau and Islands US$100million of annual operations a strategy we have pursued since our demerger from Cable & Wireless Group in 2010.
We are now a business focused entirely on one region, costsavings to be achieved pan-America, where we have a great platform from which to build.
This structural clarity allows us to review our operating model and management approach and make changes Tony Rice to create a more unified, effective and cost-efficient Chief Executive business.
The streamlined business will also help us to adapt in the new age of telecoms where data rather than voice is the primary product and customer priority.
We have established a strong foundation from which to grow the business, our challenge is now to deliver.
2012 13 Performance The business performance in 2012 13 was solid, but highlighted the unequivocal shift to a data-centric marketplace.
Mobile data revenue grew by 34% during the year as our customers continued to rapidly migrate on to smartphones.
In contrast our voice revenue declined, particularly in fixed line services.
In Panama the growth of mobile data drove a 3% increase in mobile revenue, despite continued intense competition in the market.
Mobile data made a similar contribution to strong financial performance in The Bahamas, as our 4G network came online.
We also continued to improve efficiency and customer experience in this market.
Our Jamaica business has struggled in the face of mobile competition in recent years, but following positive 2012 13 Highlights US$210 million mobile data revenue in Panama and the Caribbean 17% increase in Panama mobile average revenue peruser 75,000 new mobile customers in Jamaica 06 Cable & Wireless Communications regulatory changes our team launched a terrific fightInvestment back campaign and increased customers by 16%.
Proceeds from the disposals will also give us the financial flexibility to invest in the future of CWC.
Trading conditions in the rest of the Caribbean were challenging, but we continued to enhance the services Such investment will be focused on: we deliver in markets with higher GDP and announced Organic Quality network infrastructure and systems plans to build fibre broadband networks in the Cayman to deliver the best possible customer experience Islands and Barbados.
Inorganic Acquisitions that we can develop into full We also demonstrated our ability to tackle costs during service businesses within our target footprint the year, with the outsourcing of our retail operations Having introduced high speed mobile data networks in Barbados and our network management in Jamaica in our key markets the next frontier is Long Term contributing to a reduced cost base in the Caribbean.
Evolution technology which will enable our customers Performance in our other divisions, Macau and Monaco to easily stream video on their smartphones.
We are in & Islands, was positive, with Monaco Telecom having the early stages of introducing this in The Bahamas and benefited from the elimination of loss-making activities expect to launch a commercial proposition in 2013 14. to post EBITDA 27% higher.
Customer service remains a cornerstone of what we do New operating model and so we will continue to invest in facilities that help us Having unified our business we can now bring our to improve the experience we deliver.
management teams together, including moving We have strict criteria for making investments and our senior management closer to our operations, Return on Invested Capital, which we have broadly and most importantly, closer to our customers.
We maintained at the same level as in 2012 13, is an have announced plans to establish a new corporate important management measure.
We are targeting headquarters in southern Florida, USA.
The Group will improvements in future and key to that will be the remain listed on the London Stock Exchange, but our pricing and bundling of the mobile data bandwidth we key corporate functions will be based in the new HQ supply.
We have made progress on introducing tiered and our management team will take a more operational pricing for mobile data services across our business and approach.
will continue to develop our customer information and This fundamental change to our operating model will billing systems in support of that.
enable us to drive significant cost out of the business.
While we are saying goodbye to many valued colleagues We have set a target of US$100 million of annual cost through our disposals, these are exciting times for CWC.
savings to be achieved over the next two years.
The We have a unified business, clear strategy and strong savings will come through productivity improvement sense of determination to enact the changes which will and the realisation of synergies as we unify the business.
transform our Group and deliver long-term growth.
This will improve our cash flow and margins, particularly Tony Rice in our Caribbean business.
Our operating margin in the Caribbean is currently 24% and we have set a target of raising it to above 30% in the medium term.
Mobile data H aving introduced high speed mobile data networks in our key markets the next frontier is Long Term Evolution technology which will enable our customers to easily stream video on their smartphones.
We are in the early stages of introducing this in TheBahamas and expect to launch a commercial proposition in 2013 14.
Our pan-America opportunity Our strategic priorities We have positioned our business to grow in a Our strategic priorities include pursuing organic region with increasing demand for mobile data and inorganic growth opportunities whilst and broadband.
improving the productivity of our business.
For more information 08 For more information 13 Annual report 2012 13 07 Our pan-America opportunity We want to be the leading full service telecoms provider in the pan-America region.
Our rationale for concentrating onpan-America is five-fold: 1 There is a growing demand for data Around the world telecoms customer behaviour is changing.
Customers are buying smartphones and tablets and using applications with increasingly enriched forms of entertainment and information.
Networkspeeds and capacities are increasing, enabling customers todownload richer content like pay TV and streamed video.
As a result of these trends, the appetite for data services, particularly mobile data, will continue to increase.
Worldwide data traffic is growing strongly Petabytes month 26% Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR 110,282 87,331 69,028 54,812 43,441 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Methodology especially mobile data in Latin America Terrabytes month 72% CAGR 480,840 304,239 179,361 96,617 54,907 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Tra c Forecast Update 08 Cable & Wireless Communications 2 Full service operators are best placed to meet the demands of customers and operators CWC operates networks which provide a full set of telecoms services fixed line, mobile, broadband, pay TV, enterprise, social telecoms and carrier.
Full service operators are well placed to provide customers with the best mobile dataexperience and coverage, as we are able to utilise a combination of mobile, fixedand sub-sea cable networks.
Our fibre broadband networks are a platform to reach other customers, and provide new services pay TV for consumers, managed services for enterprises and social telecoms for governments.
Forecasts indicate that there will be strong growth in demand for data products across all our customer segments.
Forecast global demand increases 2012-2016 Business Government Consumer broadband Consumer TV over Mobile data tra c CAGR CAGR CAGR broadband CAGR 21% 53% 60% 76% Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Methodology Annual report 2012 13 09 Our pan-America opportunity continued 3 The pan-America region has significant growth potential US$689bn GDP 84m Population 74m Mobile phones 14m Internet users Source: CIA World Factbook.
Countries included: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Costa Rica, Cuba, Curaau, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Nicaragua, Panama, Puerto Rico, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Martin, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Maarten, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks & Caicos, US Virgin Islands 10 Cable & Wireless Communications 4 We are well positioned to be the provider of choice in pan-America We are the leading operator in 10 out of 16 mobile markets 15 out of 16 broadband markets and all 15 xed line markets we serve.
We are investing in high capacity, reliable networks.
High speed mobile data servicesareavailable in six marketsand we have upgradedourcore networks inTheBahamas and St. Vincentand Our network of the Grenadines.
22sub-sea and four overland cable systems carry data traffic from the internet to our customers.
Annual report 2012 13 11 Our pan-America opportunity continued 5 With strong potential synergies Having focused our business on a single region we are now improving our productivity by creating a unified operating structure, simplifying the way we deliver services and reducing network costs.
We have set ourselves a target of reducing our cost base by US$100 million over the next two years.
We plan to establish a new headquarters within the region in which key corporate and operational functions will be co-located.
Pan-America Potential to realise significant value US$100m two year cost saving target Network efficiencies New operating model Property rationalisation Lower headcount Administrative savings Florida Key e Bahamas CWC operations Turks & Caicos Cuba Dominican British Virgin Republic Cayman Islands Haiti Islands Anguilla Jamaica Antigua St. Kitts & Nevis & Barbuda Montserrat Guatemala Dominica Honduras St. Vincent and the Grenadines Barbados El Salvador St. Lucia Grenada Nicaragua Trinidad & Tobago Panama Costa Rica 12 Cable & Wireless Communications
