Chairman & CEO Statement Sir Bill Gammell and Simon Thomson Our strategy is to focus on value creation and value realisation.
Cairns vision is to create an exploration led and sustainable cash generative oil and gas business offering shareholders exposure to material capital growth potential.
In particular, we seek to secure frontier or overlooked exploration opportunities, on appropriate commercial terms, which offer significant hidden value potential.
Cajun Express drilling unit 04 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chairmans Introduction Corporate Overview Cairns net cash of US$1.25bn as at 31 December As announced on 3 March, I intend to retire from Our strategy is to focus on value creation and 2013 provides the necessary funding to meet planned the Board following the AGM on 15 May and value realisation.
The FDP I am delighted that Ian Tyler will take over as approval by DECC for the Kraken development in non-executive Chairman.
When Ian was originally Cairns vision is to create an exploration led and November 2013 means reserves have been booked brought onto the Groups Board, as part of Cairns sustainable cash generative oil and gas business and discussions are well advanced to secure debt long term succession planning, Cairn was aware of offering shareholders exposure to material capital finance for this project.
Upon receiving FDP approval Ians abilities as chairman and his extensive listed growth potential.
In particular, we seek to secure for Catcher we will similarly book Catcher reserves company experience.
As a shareholder, I am frontier or overlooked exploration opportunities, and progress debt financing to fund its development.
confident that Ian will be an excellent leader of on appropriate commercial terms, which offer the Board and ensure its continued effectiveness.
As the development plans progress, our revised valuation of the Kraken asset exceeds its carrying In addition, Dr James Buckee has decided not to During 2013, Cairn delivered on its strategic goal value in the financial statements of US$300m, stand for re-election at the AGM.
I would like to of positioning the Group for future growth: although there has been a fall in value of the Catcher thank Jim for his valuable contribution to the Board i. we commenced a multi-well frontier exploration assets to US$250m due to revisions to the cost and during his tenure as a non-executive director.
programme which offers investors substantial resource estimates which results in an impairment.
growth potential: and Deferred tax credits on both assets have also led ii.
we advanced two main pre-development to an impairment of goodwill.
The impact of the projects, Kraken and Catcher, the former to impairments and tax credits result in a net charge project sanction, the latters draft FDP was of US$218m.
See the Financial Review for submitted to DECC early 2014. further details.
The combination of future cash generating assets In January 2014, Cairn received a request from within a balanced exploration portfolio means we the Indian Income Tax Department to provide are well placed to fund future exploration activity information in relation to the year ended 31 March and to repeat the cycle of creating, adding and 2007.
The correspondence indicates that the realising shareholder value.
request for information is in respect of amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which Our multiple frontier and mature basin exploration seek to tax prior year transactions under legislation wells over the coming months are targeting close applied retrospectively.
While the interactions with to 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent bn boe of mean the Indian Income Tax Department continue, Cairn un-risked gross prospective resource within a total has been restricted from selling its shares in CIL of unrisked Yet to Find prospect potential in excess valued at US$1.0bn as at 31 December 2013.
By building a growing prospect and matter is addressed further in the Financial Review.
lead inventory, from which to select and high grade prospects for drilling, we aim to offer shareholders Discover more on the Indian Income Tax situation: 39 Financial Review P39 and How We Manage Risk P42-49 material potential growth opportunities over the long term.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Chairman & CEO Statement Continued In line with value realisation and the Groups The JM-1 well Cairn WI 37.5%, Operator drilled An appraisal well on the Spanish Point gas disciplined approach to managing its balance sheet, to evaluate Upper Jurassic and Middle Jurassic condensate discovery offshore West of Republic Cairn announced in October 2013 it would return objectives reached a total depth of 3,711m TVDSS of Ireland Cairn 38% WI, Operator and a 3D up to US$300m to shareholders through a share and has been plugged and abandoned without testing.
seismic survey on acreage nearby are both repurchase programme.
This maximum cash return planned to commence Q2 Q3 2014. effectively represented the aggregate of the In the Upper Jurassic section, the well has confirmed proceeds realised from the sale of the Groups 6% the presence of heavy oil over a gross interval of One exploration well is planned to commence on the WI in the North Sea Mariner Field and the capital 110 metres m as originally tested in the 1968 MO-2 Cap Boujdour Contract Area in 2014 with Kosmos expenditure allocated to that development.
well, some 2km from the JM-1 well.
Reservoir quality Energy operator and the Moroccan National Oil and the oil gravity in the Upper Jurassic across the Company ONHYM Cairn 20% WI subject to The Board agreed to review the buy-back Cap Juby structure require further evaluation by government approval.
programme on a quarterly basis and has decided Cairn and its joint venture partners Office National to suspend the share buy-back programme until Des Hydrocarbures et Des Mines ONHYM Mature Basin Exploration and the position with regard to the shareholding in and Genel Energy.
Work is ongoing to correlate Development: UK and Norwegian CIL is resolved.
To date 25,180,201 shares for an the core and log data from JM-1 with other wells North Sea aggregate consideration of US$94.7m have been on Cap Juby to evaluate the extent of moveable Over the last two years, the Group has built an repurchased as part of the buy-back programme.
hydrocarbons and how any further assessment attractive business and acreage position in the North The total number of voting rights in Cairn, as at should be conducted.
Importantly, this is an area which provides an 17 March 2014 is 578,189,219. active market place for asset trades as evidenced The Middle Jurassic objective was encountered by the various swaps, farm-ins and divestments the Frontier Basin Exploration: with limited primary porosity and evaluation of Group has completed during the last year, with such Atlantic Margin well logs and side wall cores continues.
Cairns frontier Atlantic Margin exploration strategy is focused along the multiple play types related to The two well exploration programme offshore In the UK, the Kraken and Catcher development the breakup of the former supercontinent Pangea.
Senegal Cairn 40% WI, Operator is expected to projects are a key part of the portfolio, acquired to Our current portfolio includes exploration acreage start in April after drilling operations are completed provide cash flow following first oil production in offshore Morocco, Senegal, Ireland, Mauritania in Morocco.
In Norway, the Group has built a strategic and Greenland.
position around its Skarfjell discovery Cairn WI The first exploration well will be located on the 20%, including other discoveries and prospects Offshore Morocco, we operate two exploration North Fan Prospect in 1,427m water depth.
This well which offer the potential for a hub and satellite permits and are also a non-operator partner in will be immediately followed by a second exploration development scheme in the future.
well targeting a Shelf Edge Prospect in 1,100m of water.
These will be the first deep water 1,000m The strategic intention is to use free cash from these Our first well in the programme was the offshore wells drilled in Senegal and only the second and third future developments to fund future exploration Morocco, FD-1 well Cairn 50% WI, Operator, deep water wells along this underexplored part of programmes.
which was plugged and abandoned in December the margin.
The well established a working hydrocarbon system with a thermogenic source rock, however, the anticipated target reservoirs were not encountered.
Over the last two years, the Group has built an attractive business and acreage position in the North Sea.
Importantly, this is an area which provides an active market place for asset trades as evidenced by the various swaps, farm-ins and divestments the Group has completed during the last year, with such activity set to continue.
06 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
