Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Strong net client cash flows across the Group totalling 15.5 billion, 6% of opening FUM.
Our strong net client cash flows across all Foundation sector and Nedbank has added This has been a year our businesses demonstrate the strength of a further 529,000 customers in its retail banking of profitable business our client offering and this has translated into unit this year.
Old Mutual South Africa OMSA excellent profit growth of 15% to 1.6 billion gross sales increased 11% to R118 billion, growth and strategic on a constant currency basis, and flat on Nedbank saw an increase in average interest delivery by Old Mutual.
Gross sales were up 17% earning assets of 7% to R594.7 billion and to more than 25 billion, with funds under non-interest revenue growth was 11.8%.
management FUM up 19% to 293.8 billion.
Our second strategic priority is to become Group return on equity RoE at 13.6% Africas financial services champion, and remained well within the 12% to 15% we we have set aside up to R5 billion to help us have set as a target.
Despite the short-term headwinds Equity markets in our largest markets of South facing the emerging markets, we are convinced Africa, the UK and US performed strongly in that the structural growth drivers of the young, the year with the JSE All-Share up around 18%, growing population allied to a more stable the FTSE100 14% higher and Standard & political environment and growing wealth Poors 500 up 30%.
However, the year saw a driven by natural resources present a sizeable further weakening of the rand against sterling, opportunity for retail financial services.
We resulting in the Groups business results being now have more than 1.9 million customers in affected on a reported currency basis, with the Africa, outside of South Africa, and our focus average rand rate declining during the period is to build scale businesses in West and East by 16% against sterling.
Africa, based around regional hubs in Lagos and Nairobi.
We bought the Oceanic Life and as confidence returns property and casualty businesses in Nigeria, After a challenging few years, we saw which are now operational and trading under confidence and growth begin to return to the the Old Mutual brand.
We bought Provident UK economy, and the US continuing on its Life Assurance in Ghana and the integration path to recovery, with a corresponding rise in of this business into the Old Mutual Group is equity markets.
Growth slowed somewhat in progressing well.
In East Africa, subject to the South Africa with economic activity affected conclusion of the relevant closing conditions, by labour disputes in the extractive industries, we bought a majority stake in Faulu, a highly but the International Monetary Fund IMF regarded micro-lender with more than expects growth to increase this year to 2.8% 400,000 customers.
The customer profile of from 1.9% in 2013.
Concern over South Africas Faulu is very similar to that of our South African current account and budget deficits combined Mass Foundation business, and we have with an expectation of tapering by the US started cross-selling credit life to the Faulu Federal Reserve led to the rand depreciating customer base and are exploring ways of by 27% against sterling and 24% against the adapting other parts of our Mass Foundation US dollar by the year-end.
The sub-Saharan product suite for use in Kenya.
African markets where we operate saw Julian Roberts significant growth again in the year with We have now committed approximately GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE estimated GDP growth of 6.2% in Nigeria, R700 million in acquiring these businesses, 7.9% in Ghana and 5.9% in Kenya IMF.
and are actively exploring a number of and Old Mutual continues its transformation to focus on growth I a m delighted with For the past five years, our focus has been to simplify our Group and return Old Mutual to a the way Old Mutual strong position from which to deliver long-term growth.
With this having been substantially has performed this achieved, we are focused on growth and in 2013 set out four strategic priorities to achieve year.
We are making good progress in excellent progress executing these priorities.
We said that we would expand in the fastest against our strategic growing markets in South Africa and we have objectives.
built our customer base and increased sales significantly during the year.
Old Mutual has gained 280,000 customers in the Mass 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Improved collaboration between Old Mutual, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal.
attractive options to ensure that we can rapidly build scale in these key markets.
A strategy to take advantage Nedbank is expected to complete its acquisition of a 36.4% stake in the of growth opportunities: Mozambican bank Banco nico in Q1 2014 for $24.4 million and has the opportunity to In South Africa align OMSA, exercise its right to acquire 20% in ETI.
Nedbank and Mutual & Federal to As we build across Africa and as we cement our position in South Africa we will continue to become the leading and most trusted seek ways in which Old Mutual, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal can work more closely financial services group together and leverage off their individual 1 strengths and capabilities.
This initiative is already resulting in significant cross-selling In Africa build an African financial opportunities.
For example: Nedbank Financial Planners delivered gross flows of services champion, while continuing R4.3 billion to the South African Retail Affluent division and Retail Affluent sold R600 million to grow in other emerging markets of Mutual & Federal products.
Collaboration is key to our future growth and we intend to implement incentive plans for the executive 2 management of Old Mutual Emerging Markets OMEM, Nedbank and Mutual & Old Mutual Wealth transform to Federal which will reward them for driving revenue, cost and capital synergies between build the best retail investment business the three businesses.
In addition, reflecting the in the UK importance of the insurance and banking businesses to South Africa, at the request of the Regulator, in 2014 we will be activating a 3 new top Board in the country to oversee risks, capital and strategy for the South African part of the Group.
US Asset Management continue We explained our plans to grow Old Mutual to improve and grow our multi-boutique Wealth and we have set a pre-tax AOP target asset management business for the business of 300 million in 2015, for which we are on track.
In the UK, we are aiming to become the leading retail investment business 4 and have put in place building blocks to achieve this: we have strengthened the talent base in Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI : have Responsible business in each of our signed an agreement for IFDS to provide us markets become the recognised financial with one of the most flexible platforms on the market: widened our product proposition services leader in responsible business including launching WealthSelect: and have announced that we will acquire one of the UKs largest financial adviser networks, subject to 5 regulatory approval, as a bolt-on acquisition.
We intend to proceed with an initial public offering of a minority interest in the US Asset Management USAM business in 2014, subject to market conditions.
The purpose of the offering is to enhance USAMs financial and operating flexibility to deploy capital to continue Our vision, values and strategy on to grow and develop further its multi-boutique p10-17 asset management business.
We expect that this offering will broaden USAMs access to capital to pursue future growth initiatives across its Old Mutual plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report net interest income and disciplined expense business, including collaborative investments segment maintained its growth path with gross management.
Non-interest revenue saw in affiliate growth and further penetration of sales up 14%, primarily due to a larger adviser growth of 11.8% to R19.4 billion and net non-US markets through its global distribution force, and profits were also up by 14%.
We interest income increased by 7.8% to platform, as well as strategic partnerships with maintain a tight grip on the quality of the new R21.2 billion.
The credit loss ratio for the year high quality boutique asset management firms business we are writing, for example, by was 1.06%, up slightly from last year 1.05% with complementary investment products.
enhancing new business submission standards which was expected given the economic and have introduced various retention initiatives.
while remaining financially strong climate, more conservative provisioning and and cash generative Gross Corporate sales were up 17% mainly a single large impairment recorded by the We have a strong balance sheet with a low due to excellent growth in single premium business banking division.
Nedbank remains level of indebtedness.
Old Mutual Investment Group well capitalised with the Basel III commonour 1.7 billion debt repayment programme OMIG saw good flows into equity boutiques, equity Tier 1 ratio at 12.5%.
through the purchase of 176 million of however sales as a whole declined 7% against outstanding debt.
The Group, excluding 2012 which was a particularly strong year.
while the environment remains Nedbank, had gross IFRS debt of 1.3 billion challenging for Property & Casualty Old Mutual Finance, our 50% joint venture, at 31 December 2013.
We continue to generate The tough conditions we have seen for continues to have a conservative approach strong cash returns which give us the ability Property & Casualty insurance continued into to lending and we have maintained collection to continue to invest for growth and remain the second half of 2013, as the industry in rates on our active portfolio of more than strongly capitalised while maintaining South Africa as a whole suffered from 90%.
We maintain a tight focus on unsecured a progressive dividend.
weather-related losses in the last quarter, credit and have strict underwriting criteria.
drought conditions affected our Agriculture Emerging Markets continues its underwriting results in the first half, and a In Africa excl.
SA, we saw excellent growth in growth trajectory continued soft market especially in motor.
covered sales, up 17%, as we secured large The Emerging Markets business as a whole These conditions contributed to a disappointing corporate deals in Namibia, growth in Retail saw good growth in the year, with gross sales underwriting loss of R437 million.
Gross written Affluent sales in Kenya and the inclusion of up 9% to R165 billion.
NCCF improved by premiums grew by 16.6% in the year, with Nigeria for the first time.
Non-covered sales 52% to R24.7 billion, with FUM up 16% to strong growth of 36.7% in the Corporate & decreased by 14%, mainly due to the exclusion R838 billion.
Pre-tax AOP on an IFRS basis Niche segment due to the new Treaty Inwards of Kenya broker flows in 2013 and lower was up 12% to R8.9 billion.
In iWYZE, we saw solid growth in institutional sales in Namibia.
gross written premiums of 10.8% and a OMEMs successful performance was In Latin America and Asia, profits were up significant improvement in the claims ratio.
underpinned by a focus on understanding and 80% boosted by favourable exchange rates, meeting our customers needs.
We introduced The new management team has a clear plan a reallocation of central expenses and the new offerings in our markets, including: the to address the challenges that the business first time inclusion of AIVA profits in 2013.
Old Mutual Wealth proposition in South faces.
We are confident that following the Africa, which was launched in September Overall Emerging Markets non-covered implementation of the plan we will meet and in its first six months of operations reached sales for the period were flat at R116 billion our published targets but acknowledge that R1 billion of FUM: XtraMAX, a structured reflecting the reclassification of Asia sales it will take time for this to come through in investment product in South Africa: a mobile from non-covered to covered and the strong the business financial results.
By 2016, we phone operated transactional money account performance of the comparative period.
expect this business to have a sustainable in Namibia: and a personal pension plan in top 2 position in the South African market: We have set out a number of clear targets for Kenya.
We also boosted the number of agents to have built significant operations in the the Emerging Markets business.
In Kenya, we now have major markets in Africa: to maintain an to grow our customer base to at least 9 million approximately 600 agents: since acquiring RoE of 15% to 20% through the cycle: and by 2015, maintain our RoE target between AIVA in Latin America, we have recruited a with an underwriting margin of 4% to 6%.
20% to 25%, and have the profits from Africa further 460 agents: in the Mass Foundation excl.
SA, including Property & Casualty, Old Mutual Wealth delivers business we have grown our adviser numbers reaching 15% of South African profits by 2015. operational growth and strategic to 4,160 from 3,750 last year.
Product As part of our plan to achieve this, we are transformation innovation and customer service remain exploring a number of options in both East It was a significant year for Old Mutual Wealth critical for the success of our business and will and West Africa which will allow us to build with the changes following the implementation continue to be a key focus for our employees.
the scale that we believe we need in these of the long awaited Retail Distribution Review In Old Mutual South Africa, strong sales across key markets.
RDR, with significant progress made in the the business were largely driven by product strategy to build the leading retail investment Nedbank produces another year innovation.
In Retail Affluent, non-covered sales business in the UK, and developing new of increased profit were up 22% due to strong demand for our customer propositions, all alongside a strong Nedbank produced another set of excellent Galaxy and unit trust products, and covered operational performance.
Profits were up 11% results, with headline earnings up 15.9% to sales increased by 9%, with a particularly strong on the prior year to 217 million.
The 2012 R8.7 billion driven by good revenue growth, performance in single premium sales, up 28%, total included additional exceptional impairments increasing at a slower rate than largely into XtraMAX.
The Mass Foundation policyholder tax benefits of 22 million and 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Double digit growth in each of our main businesses.
transparent and affordable financial products 13 million of profit from the now sold Finnish structure and management team and this year are at the heart of a strong and thriving business.
Excluding these items, the underlying all businesses will be rebranded from Skandia society, and that is what we seek to provide to profit was up by 36%, from 160 million.
Our products and services Gross sales for the year were up 24%, with A key pillar of our strategy was to strengthen are key to a sustainable economy, and often all core businesses contributing to the uplift.
We have serve the lower income groups of society.
NCCF was up 15% on the prior year as we brought in a new UK equities team and will saw strong sales on the UK Platform, by look to strengthen our teams in other asset In our markets we support economic OMGI, and through our International classes where necessary.
We have launched a development and society as a whole in a business.
As a result of the strong NCCF and new proposition to the market WealthSelect, number of ways.
In South Africa, we signed an an uplift in equity markets, FUM increased by which provides financial advisers with the most R80 million deal that will fund the development 13% to 78.5 billion.
comprehensive range of portfolio and operations of four low-fee independent management solutions in the market.
During schools over the next five years and are set to In the UK, the Platform recorded NCCF of the year we continued to embed Wealth reach 4,100 pupils.
This deal is the third of its 2.4 billion, which was a particularly good Interactive, our cross-border international kind for the Schools Investment Fund, a fund performance given the challenging start platform, and we signed an outsourcing established by the Public Investment Corporation to the year with the introduction of RDR.
arrangement with IFDS which will transform PIC, the Government Employees Pension Confidence amongst advisers has returned our platform into one of the most flexible in the Fund GEPF and Old Mutual to address the and we have seen good sales across the market, with associated transformation costs shortage of quality affordable schools in collective investment products and ISA of approximately 140 million over the next South Africa.
In all our businesses we work products, leading to a strong fourth quarter.
three years after 20 million of costs have through our employees and directly with FUM on the Platform now stands at already been incurred.
community partners to support projects and in 27.3 billion, up 21% on the prior year, and 2013 we spent 16.1 million across the Group contributing to the increase in profits from We have announced that we are purchasing in community investment programmes.
2 million last year to 13 million in 2013.
Intrinsic Financial Services Limited Intrinsic, Importantly, gross new business sales on the one of the largest adviser networks in the UK We are committed to monitoring, managing Platform into OMGI funds were 16% at the with 3,000 advisers, both restricted and and reducing our environmental impact and end of 2013.
The Platform was recognised independent.
We believe that the provision of as part of this we will be adopting nonas the Best Platform at the Professional advice is of fundamental and growing financial targets that support our Responsible Advisers Awards.
importance in the retail financial services Business strategy.
These will be communicated market and that restricted advice will become in our Responsible Business report to be Our International cross-border business had more dominant in time.
The purchase of published at the beginning of April.
NCCF of 0.5 billion, up 150% on the prior Intrinsic is a critical part of our strategy of and ensuring we are always focused year, predominantly due to new product creating a leading wealth management on the customer launches and improved sales in South Africa.
business that combines financial advice, We can only be successful with the continued Sales in Hong Kong and Europe were also investment solutions and high quality asset support and trust of our customers.
Ensuring much improved and sales in Latin America management to deliver first class outcomes that we treat them fairly and provide them with have developed well with the acquisition of for our customers.
the products, returns and service levels they AIVA, which saw some large single premium and US Asset Management expect from an institution to which they entrust business towards the end of the year.
maintains its momentum their savings is critical.
It is why we spend We have strengthened the OMGI asset The excellent first six months of 2013 continued significant resources making the customer the management capabilities in UK equities and into the second half of the year translating into central focus of our company.
We have made this, combined with continued strong investment profit and margin growth and sustained significant progress in this regard, in particular performance, led to NCCF for the year of positive NCCF.
Profits at $174 million increased in enhancing our customer insights and 0.7 billion, up from 0.3 billion in 2012.
NCCF by 21% on the prior years reported result and improving and expanding our product range.
from UK third parties reached 1.3 billion, NCCF at $16.3 billion, represented 7.8% of the against 0.1 billion in 2012.
We saw further In the past year we have taken a number of opening FUM, with our Global Distribution Nordic outflows, which were anticipated further steps by, for example, improving our team accounting for approximately a quarter following the sale of the Nordic business in proposition: through the launch of Old Mutual of NCCF.
Net flows were highly diversified with 2012, totalling 1.0 billion.
We expect the Wealth in South Africa and enhancing our six out of our eight affiliates recording positive final 200 million of Nordic outflows in 2014. distribution in Kenya via the acquisition of or flat flows.
FUM stands at $257.4 billion, We continue to look to broaden our investment Faulu.
We have made our products more 23% higher than the prior year due to a styles where appropriate.
accessible by: expanding Old Mutual combination of the strong net flows and Finances branch footprint to 225 and by positive market movements.
In 2012, we outlined our plans for transforming launching new world solutions such as Old Mutual Wealth into the leading retail We are playing our part in the Nedbanks app suite and the I-invest mobile investment business in the UK and we have communities where we operate unit trust savings product in Kenya.
We have taken a number of significant strides in this We recognise that we have an impact on improved the customer feedback capability in respect.
It is now operating under one reporting the societies in which we operate.
Secure, each geography where we are present, and Old Mutual plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report we have seen a steady improvement in our Operating Officer of the African Development Net Promoter Score, which is a customer Bank and Managing Partner of the African loyalty metric.
business of Actis Capital, an emerging markets investment firm.
Ms Cruz was previously while building a strong, responsible Co-President for Institutional Securities and culture within Old Mutual Wealth Management at Morgan Stanley with Embedding the right culture and values in the responsibility for running major revenue organisation is similarly important.
As part of generating businesses there, including this process, senior management are formally overseeing their securities risk management assessed to ensure that they demonstrate the and information technology.
She also founded Companys desired values and a proportion and ran her own investment management firm, of their remuneration is dependent on this.
Ms Ighodaro is currently a partner with Actis.
Before joining Senior management receive specific feedback Actis she was Head of West Africa for the via a 360 degree process to understand their Commonwealth Development Corporation.
strengths and where they need to develop in terms of these behaviours.
Our leadership Dr Moyo is a member of the Group Audit development programmes help to develop the and Remuneration Committees: Ms Cruz mindset and skills needed.
For employees at is a member of the Risk and Remuneration all levels we have training and recognition Committees: and Ms Ighodaro is a member schemes focused on instilling the behaviours of the Audit Committee.
These form part of our induction of new employees and we ask every Bongani Nqwababa resigned as an person each year via a culture and values survey independent non-executive director of the to describe the values and behaviours they see Company on 6 January 2014. in the way the Company operates.
We use this Philip Broadley, Group Finance Director of feedback to identify actions to continually Old Mutual since November 2008, has notified align the way we do things with our values.
the Group of his intention to leave in 2014.
Our strong cash generation and Mr Broadley has played a critical role in the capital position supports a 16% transformation of Old Mutual and leaves increase in dividend a much simpler and more resilient business, The Board has considered the position in focused on meeting customers needs and with respect of the final dividend for 2013 and a clear strategy for growth.
We are currently is recommending the payment of a final conducting a thorough internal and external dividend for 2013 of 6.0p per ordinary share search for Mr Broadleys successor.
or its equivalent in other applicable currencies.
South African empowerment Based on this recommendation the full-year We continue to transform our business in ordinary dividend would be 8.1p, a 16% increase South Africa, with Old Mutual South Africa on the prior year.
No scrip dividend alternative and Nedbank maintaining their level 2 will be available in relation to this dividend.
accreditation for B-BBEE using the new Dividend policy Financial Sector Code.
The Board intends to pursue a progressive Outlook dividend policy consistent with our strategy, We have a clear strategy and clear priorities having regard to overall capital requirements, which we are focused on achieving.
While liquidity and profitability, and targeting a the external environment is likely to remain dividend cover in the range of 2.0 to 2.25 times uncertain, and in particular the impact of the IFRS AOP earnings in future.
Interim dividends movement of the rand on our reported results, will continue to be set at about 30% of the we believe that the long-term structural growth prior years full ordinary dividend.
trends in Africa and strong demand for banking, Board changes protection and savings products remain intact We were pleased to welcome Dr Nkosana and will continue to drive sustainable and Moyo, Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro to the profitable growth for Old Mutual.
Board as independent non-executive directors.
Dr Moyo is the Executive Chairman of the Mandela Institute for Development Studies, and was previously Vice President and Chief 9
