A s h s t : g e s t n e o t e m a p r t t t a S i s n m d n a i e o s g t i e e d n l m U i u e b n t : 46 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength Managing risk to generate competitive advantage Our strategy and operating principles Prudential retains material risks only where consistent with our risk appetite and risk-taking philosophy, Balanced metrics and that is: disclosures B They contribute to value creation: B Adverse outcomes can Focus on Disciplined be withstood: and customers & capital allocation distribution B We have the capabilities, expertise, processes and controls to manage them.
Proactive risk management For more information on Prudentials strategy and operating principles Our strategy page 16 s a provider of financial management and internal control that support W e generate shareholder value services the management Prudentials compliance with statutory and by selectively taking exposure of risk lies at the heart of our regulatory requirements are defined.
to risks that are adequately Abusiness, and effective risk rewarded and that can be Risk governance management capabilities represent appropriately quantified Unaudited a key source of competitive and managed.
Our Group Risk Framework requires that all advantage for the Group.
We generate our businesses and functions establish shareholder value by selectively processes for identifying, evaluating and taking exposure to risks that are managing the key risks faced by the Group.
adequately rewarded and that can The framework is based on the concept of be appropriately quantified and three lines of defence comprising managed.
We retain material risks risk-taking and management, risk control Pierre-Olivier Boue only where consistent with our risk and oversight and independent assurance.
Group Chief Risk Officer appetite and risk-taking philosophy, Primary responsibility for strategy, that is: i they contribute to value performance management and risk control creation: ii adverse outcomes can lies with the Board, which has established be withstood: and iii we have the the Group Risk Committee to assist in capabilities, expertise, processes and providing leadership, direction and controls to manage them.
oversight in respect of the Groups The control procedures and systems significant risks, and with the Group Chief established within the Group are designed Executive and the Chief Executives of each to manage rather than eliminate the risk of of the Groups business units.
failure to meet business objectives.
They Risk taking and the management can only provide reasonable and not thereof forms the first line of defence and absolute assurance against material is facilitated through both the Group misstatement or loss and focus on aligning Executive Committee and the Balance Sheet the levels of risk-taking with the and Capital Management Committee.
Risk control and oversight constitutes Group Risk Framework the second line of defence, and is achieved Our Group Risk Framework describes our through the operation of the Group approach to risk management, including Executive Risk Committee and its provisions for risk governance arrangements: sub-committees which monitor and keep our appetite and limits for risk exposures: risk exposures under regular review.
These policies for the management of various risk committees are supported by the Group types: risk culture standards: and risk Chief Risk Officer, with functional reporting.
It is under this framework that the oversight provided by Group Risk, Group key arrangements and standards for risk Compliance and Group Security.
U n i t e e t a d f : r o a e K i c l s i u e A n s c g c d a o m : Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks Strategic report facing our business and our capital strength Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 47 Group Risk has responsibility for We define and monitor aggregate risk Capital requirements: the limits aim to establishing and embedding a capital limits based on financial and non-financial ensure that: management and risk oversight framework stresses for our earnings volatility, liquidity a The Group meets its internal economic and culture consistent with our risk and capital requirements as follows: capital requirements: appetite that protects and enhances the Earnings volatility: the objectives of the b The Group achieves its desired target Groups embedded and franchise value.
limits are to ensure that: rating to meet its business objectives: Group Compliance provides verification of and compliance with regulatory standards and a T he volatility of earnings is consistent c Supervisory intervention is avoided.
informs the Board, as well as the Groups with the expectations of stakeholders: management, on key regulatory issues b The Group has adequate earnings and The two measures used are the EU affecting the Group.
Group Security is cash flows to service debt, expected Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital responsible for developing and delivering dividends and to withstand unexpected requirements and internal economic capital appropriate security measures with a view shocks: and requirements.
In addition, capital to protecting the Groups staff, physical c Earnings and cash flows are managed requirements are monitored on both local assets and intellectual property.
properly across geographies and are statutory and future Solvency II regulatory consistent with funding strategies.
Risk appetite and limits We also define risk appetite statements The two measures used to monitor the Audited and measures ie limits, triggers, indicators volatility of earnings are EEV operating The extent to which we are willing to take for the major constituents of each risk type profit and IFRS operating profit, although risk in the pursuit of our objective to create as categorised and defined in the Group EEV and IFRS total profits are also shareholder value is defined by a number Risk Framework, where appropriate.
of risk appetite statements, operationalised appetite statements and measures cover through measures such as limits, triggers Liquidity: the objective is to ensure that the most significant exposures to the and indicators.
These appetite statements the Group is able to generate sufficient Group, particularly those that could impact and measures are approved by the Board cash resources to meet financial obligations our aggregate risk limits.
The Group Risk on recommendation of the Group Risk as they fall due in business as usual and Framework risk categorisation is shown in Committee and are subject to annual review.
Group Risk Framework risk categorisation Category Risk type Definition Financial risks Market risk The risk of loss for the Groups business, or of adverse change in the financial situation, resulting, directly or indirectly, from fluctuations in the level or volatility of market prices of assets and liabilities.
Credit risk The risk of loss for the Groups business or of adverse change in the financial position, resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors in the form of default or other significant credit event eg downgrade or spread widening.
Insurance risk The risk of loss for the Groups business or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, resulting from changes in the level, trend, or volatility of a number of insurance risk drivers.
This includes adverse mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency and expense experience.
Liquidity risk The risk of the Group being unable to generate sufficient cash resources or to meet financial obligations as they fall due in business as usual and stress scenarios.
Non-financial risks Operational risk The risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from personnel and systems, or from external events other than those covered by business environment risk.
Business Exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the environment risk fundamentals that drive the businesss overall strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
48 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength continued Our risk appetite framework forms an Key risks ii Interest rate risk integral part of our annual business Market risk Audited planning cycle.
The Group Risk Committee i Investment risk Long-term rates have declined over recent is responsible for reviewing the risks Audited periods in many markets, falling to historic inherent in the Groups business plan and In Prudential UK, investment risk arises lows.
Products that we write are sensitive for providing the Board with input on the from the assets in the with-profits fund.
to movements in interest rates, and while risk reward trade offs implicit therein.
This risk impacts the shareholders we have already taken a number of actions This review is supported by the Group interest in future transfers and is driven to fide-risk the in-force business as well as Risk function, which uses submissions by predominantly by equities in the fund re-price and restructure new business business units to calculate the Groups as well as by other investments such offerings in response to historically low aggregated position allowing for as property and bonds.
The funds interest rates, persistently low rates may diversification effects between business large inherited estate estimated at impact policyholders savings patterns units relative to the aggregate risk limits.
8.0 billion as at 31 December 2013 and behaviour.
31 December 2012: 7.0 billion can Interest rate risk arises in our UK Risk policies absorb market fluctuations and protect business from the need to match cash flows Audited the funds solvency.
The inherited for annuity payments with those from Risk policies set out specific requirements estate is partially protected against falls investments: movements in interest rates for the management of, and articulate the in equity markets through an active may have an impact on profits where risk appetite for, key risk types.
durations are not perfectly matched.
As policies for credit, market, insurance, In Asia, our shareholder exposure to a result, we aim to match the duration of liquidity, operational and tax risk, as well equities relates to revenue from unit-linked assets and liabilities as closely as possible as dealing controls.
They form part of the products and, from a capital perspective, and the position is monitored regularly.
The Group Governance Manual, which was to the effect of falling equity markets on its with-profits business is exposed to interest developed to make a key contribution to with-profits businesses.
rate risk as a result of underlying the sound system of internal control that In Jackson, investment risk arises in guarantees.
Such risk is largely borne we are expected to maintain under the UK relation to the assets backing the policies.
by the with-profits fund but shareholder Corporate Governance Code and the Hong In the case of the spread business, support may be required in extremis.
Kong Code on Corporate Governance including fixed annuities, these assets are In Asia, exposure to interest rate Practices.
Group Head Office and business generally bonds.
For variable annuities risk arises from the guarantees of some units confirm that they have implemented the business, these assets include equities as non-unit-linked investment products.
necessary controls to evidence compliance well as other assets such as bonds.
In this This exposure arises because it may not be with the Group Governance Manual.
case the impact on the shareholder comes possible to hold assets which will provide from value of future mortality and expense cash flows to match exactly those relating Risk culture fees, and additionally from guarantees to policyholder liabilities.
While this Unaudited embedded in variable annuity products.
residual asset liability mismatch risk can We work to promote a responsible risk Shareholders exposure to these be managed, it cannot be eliminated.
culture in three main ways: guarantees is mitigated through a hedging Jackson is exposed to interest rate risk programme, as well as reinsurance.
Further in its fixed, fixed index and variable annuity a By the leadership and behaviours measures have been undertaken including books.
Movements in interest rates can demonstrated by management: re-pricing initiatives and the introduction of influence the cost of guarantees in such b By building skills and capabilities variable annuities without guarantees.
products, in particular the cost of to support management: and Furthermore, it is our philosophy not to guarantees may increase when interest c By including risk management through compete on price: rather, we seek to sell at rates fall.
Interest rate risk across the entire the balance of risk with profitability and a price sufficient to fund the cost it incurs to business is managed through the use growth in the performance evaluation hedge or reinsure its risks and to achieve an of interest rate swaps and interest rate of individuals.
The remuneration strategy at Prudential The Jackson IFRS shareholders equity is designed to be consistent with its risk and US statutory capital are sensitive to iii Foreign exchange risk appetite, and the Group Chief Risk Officer the effects of policyholder behaviour on Audited advises the Group Remuneration the valuation of GMWB guarantees.
We principally operate in Asia, the US and Committee on adherence to our risk Jackson hedges the guarantees on its the UK.
The geographical diversity of our framework and appetite.
variable annuity book on an economic businesses means that we are inevitably basis, and thus accepts variability in its subject to the risk of exchange rate Risk reporting accounting results in the short term in fluctuations.
Our international operations Unaudited order to achieve the appropriate economic in the US and Asia, which represent a An annual top-down identification of our result.
In particular, under Prudentials significant proportion of our operating top risks assesses the risks that have the Group IFRS reporting, the measurement of profit and shareholders funds, generally greatest potential to impact the Groups the Jackson variable annuity guarantees is write policies and invest in assets operating results and financial condition.
typically less sensitive to market denominated in local currency.
Although The management information received by movements than the corresponding this practice limits the effect of exchange the Group Risk Committees and the Board hedging derivatives, which are held at rate fluctuations on local operating results, is tailored around these risks, and it also market value.
However, depending on the it can lead to significant fluctuations in our covers ongoing developments in other key level of hedging conducted regarding a consolidated financial statements when and emerging risks.
A discussion of the key particular risk type, certain market results are expressed in UK sterling.
risks, including how they affect our movements can drive volatility in the We retain revenues locally to support operations and how they are managed, economic result which may be less the growth of our business, and capital is follows below.
held in the local currency of the business Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks Strategic report facing our business and our capital strength Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 49 to meet local regulatory and market The shareholder-owned debt and loan agreements between the individual Group requirements, accepting the balance sheet entities and relevant counterparties in place portfolio of the Groups asset management translation risks this can produce.
operations of 2.0 billion as at under each of these master agreements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising Our exposure to derivative 31 December 2013 is principally related to in an overseas operation supports Group Prudential Capital operations.
Prudential counterparty and reinsurance capital or where a significant cash counterparty credit risk is managed using Capital generates revenue by providing remittance is due from an overseas bridging finance, managing investments an array of risk management tools, subsidiary to the Group, this exposure is including a comprehensive system of and operating a securities lending and cash hedged where we believe it is economically management business for the Prudential limits.
Where appropriate, we reduce our optimal to do so.
We do not have appetite exposure, purchase credit protection Group and our clients.
for significant shareholder exposures to Further details of the composition of our or make use of additional collateral foreign exchange risks in currencies arrangements to control our levels of debt portfolio, and exposure to loans, can outside the local territory.
Currency be found in the IFRS financial statements.
borrowings, swaps and other derivatives are used to manage exposures.
ii Group sovereign debt and bank Insurance risk Audited debt exposure Credit risk Audited The processes of determining the price 1 Audited represented 15 per cent or of our products and reporting the results Sovereign debt We invest in fixed income assets in order to 10 billion of the debt portfolio backing of our long-term business operations match policyholder liabilities and enter into shareholder business at 31 December 2013 require us to make a number of reinsurance and derivative contracts to 31 December 2012: 15 per cent or assumptions.
In common with other mitigate various types of risk.
44 per cent of this was rated industry players, the profitability we are exposed to credit and counterparty AAA and 92 per cent investment grade of our businesses depends on a credit risk across our business.
We employ 31 December 2012: 38 per cent AAA, mix of factors including mortality a number of risk management tools to 92 per cent investment grade.
At and morbidity levels and trends, manage credit risk, including limits defined 31 December 2013, the Groups total persistency, investment performance, on an issuer counterparty basis as well as holding in continental Europe shareholder unit cost of administration and new 1 on average credit quality, and collateral sovereign debt was 531 million.
78 per cent of this was AAA rated We continue to conduct research The Group Credit Risk Committee 31 December 2012: 79 per cent AAA into longevity risk using data from our oversees credit and counterparty credit rated.
Shareholder exposure to the substantial annuity portfolio.
The risk across the Group.
Eurozone sovereigns of Italy and Spain is assumptions that we make about future 54 million 31 December 2012: expected levels of mortality are i Debt and loan portfolio 52 million.
We do not have any sovereign particularly relevant in our UK annuity Audited debt exposure to Greece, Cyprus, Portugal business.
The attractiveness of Our UK business is primarily exposed or Ireland.
transferring longevity risk via reinsurance to credit risk in the shareholder-backed Our bank exposure is a function of our and other external solutions is regularly portfolio, where fixed income assets core investment business, as well as of the evaluated.
These are used as risk represent 33 per cent or 26.8 billion hedging and other activities undertaken to management tools where it is appropriate of our exposure.
Credit risk arising from manage our various financial risks.
Given and attractive to do so.
48.0 billion of fixed income assets is the importance of our relationship with our Morbidity risk is mitigated by largely borne by the with-profits fund, banks, exposure to the banking sector is a appropriate underwriting and use of although shareholder support may be key focus of management information reinsurance.
Our morbidity assumptions required should the with-profits fund provided to the Group risk committees and reflect our recent experience and become unable to meet its liabilities.
expectation of future trends for each UK business is exposed to a lesser extent The exposures held by the shareholderrelevant line of business.
to 7.2 billion of fixed income assets in backed business and with-profits funds in Our persistency assumptions reflect our unit-linked business.
sovereign debt and bank debt securities recent experience for each relevant line of The debt portfolio at our Asia business at 31 December 2013 are given in Note business, and any expectations of future totalled 18.6 billion at 31 December 2013.
C3.3 b of the Groups IFRS financial persistency.
Persistency risk is mitigated Of this, approximately 66 per cent was in statements.
by appropriate training and sales processes unit-linked and with-profits funds with and managed proactively post sale.
The remaining iii Counterparty credit risk appropriate, allowance is also made for the 34 per cent is shareholder exposure and is Audited relationship either assumed or historically invested predominantly 71 per cent in We enter into a variety of exchange traded observed between persistency and investment grade bonds.
and over-the-counter derivative financial investment returns, and for the resulting Credit risk arises in the general account instruments, including futures, options, additional risk.
of our US business, where 30.3 billion of forward currency contracts and swaps fixed income assets back shareholder such as interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, Liquidity risk liabilities including those arising from fixed cross-currency swaps, swaptions and Audited annuities, fixed index annuities and life credit default swaps.
Our parent company has significant insurance.
Included in the portfolio are All over-the-counter derivative internal sources of liquidity which are 2.3 billion of commercial mortgagetransactions, with the exception of some sufficient to meet all of its expected Asian transactions, are conducted under backed securities and 1.8 billion of requirements for the foreseeable future residential mortgage-backed securities, of standardised International Swaps and without having to make use of external Derivatives Association Inc. master which 0.9 billion 52 per cent are issued funding.
In aggregate the Group has by US government sponsored agencies.
agreements and we have collateral 2.1 billion of undrawn committed 50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength continued facilities, expiring between 2015 and The European Union EU is third-country equivalence, are expected 2018.
In addition, the Group has access to developing a new prudential regulatory to be subject to supervisory judgement liquidity via the debt capital markets.
We framework for insurance companies, and approval.
There is a risk that the effect also have in place an unlimited commercial referred to as Solvency II.
The Solvency II of the measures finally adopted could be paper programme and have maintained Directive, which sets out the new adverse for us, including potentially a a consistent presence as an issuer in this framework, was formally approved by the significant increase in the capital required market for the last decade.
Liquidity uses Economic and Financial Affairs Council to support our business and that we may and sources have been assessed at the in November 2009 although its be placed at a competitive disadvantage Group and at a business unit level under implementation was delayed pending to other European and non-European base case and stressed assumptions.
The agreement on a directive known as financial services groups.
We are actively liquidity resources available and the Omnibus II which, once adopted, will participating in shaping the outcome subsequent Liquidity Coverage Ratio are amend certain aspects of the Solvency II through our involvement in industry regularly monitored and we have assessed Directive.
The new approach is based on bodies and trade associations, including these to be sufficient.
the concept of three pillars minimum the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial capital requirements, supervisory review Officer Forums, together with the Operational risk of firms assessments of risk, and Association of British Insurers and Unaudited enhanced disclosure requirements.
We are exposed to operational risk Specifically, Pillar 1 covers the Having assessed the requirements through the course of running our quantitative requirements around own of Solvency II, an implementation business.
We are dependent on the funds, valuation rules for assets and programme was initiated with dedicated successful processing of a large number liabilities and capital requirements.
Pillar 2 teams to manage the required work across of transactions, utilising various legacy provides the qualitative requirements for the Group.
The activity of the local and other IT systems and platforms, risk management, governance and Solvency II teams is coordinated centrally across numerous and diverse products.
controls, including the requirement for to achieve consistency in the We also operate under the ever-evolving insurers to submit an Own Risk and understanding and application of the requirements set out by different Solvency Assessment which will be used requirements.
We are continuing our regulatory and legal regimes by the regulator as part of the supervisory preparations to adopt the regime when including tax, as well as utilising a review process.
Pillar 3 deals with the it comes into force on 1 January 2016 and significant number of third parties to enhanced requirements for supervisory are undertaking in parallel an evaluation distribute products and to support reporting and public disclosure.
of the possible actions to mitigate its business operations.
A key aspect of Solvency II is that the effects.
We regularly review our range Our IT, compliance and other assessment of risks and capital of options to maximise the strategic operational systems and processes requirements are intended to be aligned flexibility of the Group.
This includes incorporate controls that are designed to more closely with economic capital consideration of optimising our domicile manage and mitigate the operational risks methodologies and may allow us to make as a possible response to an adverse associated with our activities.
Although use of our internal economic capital outcome on Solvency II.
we have not experienced a material failure models if approved by the Prudential Over the coming months we will or breach in relation to our legacy and Regulation Authority.
remain in regular contact with the other IT systems and processes to date, In November 2013, representatives Prudential Regulation Authority as we we have been, and likely will continue from the European Parliament, the continue to engage in the pre-application to be, subject to computer viruses, European Commission and the Council stage of the approval process for the attempts at unauthorised access and of the European Union reached an internal model.
In addition, we are cyber security attacks.
agreement on the Omnibus II Directive, engaged in the Prudential Regulation We have an operational risk which is currently expected to be Authoritys Individual Capital Adequacy management framework in place that adopted in early 2014.
As a result, Standards Plus ICAS regime, which facilitates both the qualitative and Solvency II is now expected to be is enabling our UK insurance entities to quantitative analysis of operational risk implemented as of 1 January 2016, leverage the developments made in exposures.
The output of this framework, although the European Commission and relation to the Solvency II internal model in particular management information on the European Insurance and for the purpose of meeting the existing key operational risk and control Occupational Pensions Authority are ICAS regime.
assessments, scenario analysis, internal continuing to develop the detailed rules Currently there are also a number incidents and external incidents, is that will complement the high-level of other global regulatory developments reported by the business units and principles of the Solvency II and which could impact the way in which we presented to the Group Operational Omnibus II Directives, which are not are supervised in our many jurisdictions.
This information also currently expected to be finalised until These include the Dodd-Frank Act in the supports business decision-making mid-2015.
US, the work of the Financial Stability and lessons-learned activities, the ongoing There is significant uncertainty Board on Global Systemically Important improvement of the control environment, regarding the final outcome of this Insurers G-SIIs and the Common and determination of the adequacy of process.
In particular, certain detailed Framework for the Supervision of our corporate insurance programme.
aspects of the Solvency II rules relating to Internationally Active Insurance Groups the determination of the liability discount ComFrame being developed by the Global regulatory risk rate for UK annuity business remain to be International Association of Insurance Unaudited clarified and our capital position is Supervisors IAIS.
Global regulatory risk is considered a key sensitive to these outcomes.
Further, the The Dodd-Frank Act represents a risk and is classified as a business effective application of a number of key comprehensive overhaul of the financial environment risk under the Group Risk measures incorporated in the Omnibus II services industry within the United States framework risk categorisation.
Directive, including the provisions for that, among other reforms to financial Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks Strategic report facing our business and our capital strength Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 51 services entities, products and markets, insurance groups.
The framework is Capital management may subject financial institutions designed to develop common principles Regulatory capital IGD designated as systemically important for supervision and so may increase the Audited to heightened prudential and other focus of regulators in some jurisdictions.
Prudential is subject to the capital requirements intended to prevent or It is also currently expected that some adequacy requirements of the European mitigate the impact of future disruptions in prescriptive requirements, including Union Insurance Groups Directive IGD the US financial system.
The full impact of group capital requirements will be as implemented by the Prudential the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses is included in the framework.
A revised draft Regulation Authority in the UK.
The IGD not currently clear.
However, many of its ComFrame proposal was released for capital surplus represents the aggregated provisions have a delayed effectiveness consultation in October 2013.
The IAIS surplus capital on a Prudential Regulation and or require rule making or other will undertake a field testing exercise from Authority consistent basis of the Groups actions by various US regulators over 2014 to 2018 to assess the impacts of the regulated subsidiaries less the Groups the coming years.
quantitative and qualitative requirements borrowings.
No diversification benefit is In July 2013, the Financial Stability proposed under ComFrame.
Board announced the initial list of nine is expected to be implemented in 2019.
Our capital position remains strong.
insurance groups that have been We have continued to place emphasis on designated as G-SIIs.
This list included Risk factors maintaining the Groups financial strength Prudential as well as a number of our Unaudited through optimising the balance between competitors.
The designation as a G-SII Our disclosures covering risk factors can writing profitable new business, is likely to lead to additional policy be found at the end of this document.
conserving capital and generating cash.
measures being applied to the designated We estimate that our IGD capital surplus group.
Based on a policy framework Risk mitigation and hedging is 5.1 billion at 31 December 2013 released by the IAIS concurrently with Unaudited before taking into account the 2013 final the initial list, these additional policy We manage our actual risk profile against dividend, with available capital covering measures will include enhanced our tolerance of risk.
To do this, we our capital requirements 2.8 times.
This enhanced maintain risk registers that include details This compares to a capital surplus of supervision is intended to commence of the risks we have identified and of the 5.1 billion at the end of 2012 before immediately and will include the controls and mitigating actions we employ taking into account the 2012 final development by July 2014 of a Systemic in managing them.
Any mitigation dividend, albeit this was calculated on Risk Management Plan under supervisory strategies involving large transactions a different basis.
oversight and implementation thereafter such as a material derivative transaction The movements in 2013 mainly and by the end of 2014, a Group involving shareholder business are subject comprise: Recovery and Resolution Plan and to review at Group level before Net capital generation net of market Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
movements mainly through operating G-SII regime also introduces two types of We use a range of risk management and earnings in-force releases less capital requirements, the first, a Basic mitigation strategies.
The most important investment in new business, net of tax Capital Requirement, designed to act as of these include: adjusting asset portfolios of 2.1 billion: and a minimum Group capital requirement to reduce investment risks such as and the second, a Higher Loss Absorption duration mismatches or overweight Subordinated debt issuance of requirement for conducting noncounterparty exposures : using derivatives 1.1 billion: traditional insurance and non-insurance to hedge market risks: implementing offset by: activities.
The IAIS released a reinsurance programmes to manage consultation paper on the Basic Capital insurance risk: implementing corporate The impact of the Thanachart Requirement in December 2013 and we insurance programmes to limit the impact acquisition cost, net of IGD will participate in the field testing of the of operational risks: and revising business contribution, 0.3 billion: proposals expected in the first half of plans where appropriate.
Reduction in respect of Jackson IGD 2014.
We are monitoring the of 1.2 billion, as described below: development of, and the potential impact of, the framework of policy measures and Reduction in the shareholders interest engaging with the Prudential Regulation in future transfers from the UKs Authority on the implications of this with-profits fund asset allowance designation.
The IAIS currently expects as discussed below of 0.2 billion: to finalise the Basic Capital Requirement Final 2012 dividend of 0.5 billion and and Higher Loss Absorption proposals interim 2013 dividend of 0.3 billion: by November 2014 and the end of 2015 respectively.
Implementation of the External financing costs and other regime is likely to be phased in over a central costs, net of tax, of 0.6 billion: period of years with the Basic Capital and Requirement expected to be introduced Negative impact arising from foreign 5.1bn between 2015 and 2019.
The Higher Loss exchange movements of 0.1 billion.
estimated IGD capital surplus covering Absorption requirement will apply capital requirements from January 2019 to the insurance IGD surplus represents the accumulation of groups identified as G-SIIs surpluses across all of our operations based in November 2017. on local regulatory minimum capital ComFrame is also being developed requirements with some adjustments, 2.8 by the IAIS to provide common global pursuant to the requirements of Solvency I. times requirements for the supervision of 52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength continued The calculation does not fully adjust the Groups IGD surplus.
One such expected to come into force on 1 January arrangement allowed the Group to capital requirements for risk nor does it 2016.
Therefore our economic capital capture the true economic value of assets.
recognise a proportion of the shareholders results are based on outputs from our interest in future transfers from the UKs Global regulatory developments, such as Solvency II internal model.
Although the Solvency II and ComFrame, aim to ensure with-profits business and this remained Solvency II and Omnibus II Directives, in place, contributing 0.4 billion to the IGD that the calculation of regulatory surplus together with draft Level 2 Delegated evolves over time into a more meaningful at 31 December 2012.
We are phasing this Acts, provide a viable framework for the out in two equal steps, reducing the credit risk-sensitive measure.
calculation of Solvency II results, there There is broad agreement that taken to 0.2 billion from January 2013 remain material areas of uncertainty and in and we expect to take zero credit from ultimately it would be beneficial to replace many areas the Groups methodology and the IGD regime with a regime that is more January 2014. assumptions are subject to review and In addition to its strong capital position, risk-based.
Solvency II aims to provide approval by the Prudential Regulation such a framework and is expected to be on a statutory Pillar 1 basis, the total credit Authority, the Groups lead regulator.
We reserve for the UK shareholder annuity implemented on 1 January 2016.
The do not expect to submit our Solvency II structure of the Group and the approach funds also protects its capital position internal model to the Prudential Regulation in excess of the IGD surplus.
This credit we have taken to managing our risks, with Authority for approval until 2015, and a sizeable credit reserve in the UK annuity reserve as at 31 December 2013 was therefore the economic capital position 1.9 billion.
This credit risk allowance book, a strong inherited estate in UK disclosed below should not be interpreted with profits and the relatively low risk represents 47 per cent of the bond portfolio as output from an approved internal model.
nature of our asset management and Asian spread over swap rates, compared to At 31 December 2013 the Group has an 3 operations, together with a high level of 40 per cent as at 31 December 2012. economic capital surplus of 11.3 billion 2012: 8.8 billion and an economic IGD surplus, means we have positioned ourselves well for future regulatory Stress testing solvency ratio of 257 per cent 2012:215 per cent before taking into developments and stresses to our Unaudited business.
Our economic capital surplus, As at 31 December 2013, stress testing of account the 2013 final dividend.
Between full year 2012 and full year based on outputs from our Solvency II our IGD capital position to various events internal model, is shown below.
has the following results: 2013, the Group economic capital surplus increased by 2.5 billion from 8.8 billion An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in Unaudited to 11.3 billion.
The total movement over equity markets from 31 December 2013 the year was equivalent to a 42 percentage In March 2013, we agreed with the PRA to levels would reduce the IGD surplus by amend the calculation of the contribution point increase in the Group economic 50 million: 2 solvency ratio, driven by: Jackson makes to the Groups IGD surplus.
Until then, the contribution of Jackson to A 40 per cent fall in equity markets Model changes of 0.1 billion: a positive the reported IGD was based on an comprising an instantaneous impact to Group surplus arising from intervention level set at 75 per cent of US 20 per cent fall followed by a further a number of modelling enhancements Risk Based Capital Company Action Level.
20 per cent fall over a four-week period and refinements: Post this change, the contribution of would reduce the IGD surplus by Operating experience of 2.1 billion: Jackson to IGD surplus now equals the 250 million: surplus in excess of 250 per cent of generated by in-force business, new A 100 basis points reduction subject to business written in 2013, the beneficial Company Action Level.
This is more in line a floor of zero in interest rates would with the level at which we have historically impact of management actions taken reduce the IGD surplus by 50 million: during 2013 to fide-risk the business, reported free surplus, which had been set and at 235 per cent of Company Action Level, and small impacts from non-market assumption changes and non-market and which has been raised to 250 per cent Credit defaults of 10 times the expected in the first half of 2013 to align with IGD.
In level would reduce IGD surplus by experience variances over the year: and the absence of an agreed Solvency II 600 million.
Non-operating experience of approach, we believe that this change We believe that the results of these stress 0.9 billion: mainly arising from positive makes the IGD surplus a more meaningful tests, together with our strong underlying market experience during 2013. measure and one that is more closely earnings capacity, our established hedging Offset by: aligned with economic reality.
The revised programmes and our additional areas of IGD surplus calculation has no impact on financial flexibility, demonstrate that we Other capital movements of 0.6 billion: the way that the US business is managed or are in a position to withstand significant a reduction in surplus from the regulated locally.
The impact of this deterioration in market conditions.
acquisition of Thanachart Life and the change, when it was introduced in March We also use an economic capital preparation for sale of the Japanese 2013, was a reduction in IGD surplus of assessment to monitor our capital life business, the negative impact of 1.2 billion.
requirements across the Group, allowing exchange rate movements, an increase We continue to have further options for realistic diversification benefits, and in surplus from new subordinated debt available to manage available and required continue to maintain a strong position.
This issuances and a reduction in surplus capital.
These could take the form of assessment provides valuable insights into due to dividend payments in 2013. increasing available capital for example, our risk profile.
through financial reinsurance or reducing These results are based on outputs from our current Solvency II internal model, required capital for example, through the Economic capital position mix and level of new business and the use assessed against a draft set of rules and Unaudited with a number of key working assumptions.
of other risk mitigation measures such as Following provisional agreement on the hedging and reinsurance.
A number of such Further explanation of the underlying Solvency II Omnibus II Directive on methodology and assumptions is set out options were utilised through the last 13 November 2013, Solvency II is now financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 to enhance in note II of Additional unaudited financial Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks Strategic report facing our business and our capital strength Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 53 information.
By disclosing economic capital Capital allocation information at this stage, the directors of Unaudited Prudential plc are seeking to provide an Our approach to capital allocation is to indication of the potential outcome of attain a balance between risk and return, Solvency II based on the Groups current investing in those businesses that create interpretation of the draft rules.
In order to efficiently of the capital position based on the allocate capital, we measure the use of, Solvency II internal model will be reported and the return on, capital.
annually going forward, and will evolve to We use a variety of metrics for reflect changes to the Solvency II rules, measuring capital performance and ongoing refinements to our internal model profitability, including traditional calibrations, and feedback from the accounting metrics and economic returns.
Prudential Regulation Authority on Capital allocation decisions are supported Prudentials approach to implementing by this quantitative analysis, as well as this new capital regime.
background of uncertainty, it is possible The economic framework measures risk that the final outcome of Solvency II could adjusted returns on economic capital, a result in a fall in the Group solvency ratio, methodology that ensures meaningful relative to the results shown above.
Capital utilisation, return on capital and new Stress testing business value creation are measured at At 31 December 2013, stress testing the product level as part of the business the economic capital position gives the planning process.
following results and demonstrates the Groups ability to withstand significant deteriorations in market conditions: An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by 0.3 billion but increase the economic solvency ratio to 260 per cent: An instantaneous 40 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by 1.0 billion but increase the economic solvency ratio to 258 per cent: A 100 basis points reduction in interest rates subject to a floor of zero would reduce surplus by 1.3 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 225 per cent: A 100 basis points increase in interest rates would increase surplus by 0.8 billion and increase the economic solvency ratio to 284 per cent: and A 100 basis points increase in credit spreads would reduce surplus by 1.3 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 254 per cent.
Notes 1 Excludes Groups proportionate share in joint ventures and unit-linked assets and holdings of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
2 Jackson previously reported IGD on an intervention level set at 75 per cent of US Risk Based Capital Company Action level CAL.
In March 2013 it was agreed with the PRA that going forward Jacksons IGD will be reported on an intervention level set at 250 per cent of CAL.
3 The methodology and assumptions used in calculating the economic capital result are set out in note II of Additional unaudited financial information.
The economic Solvency ratio is based on the Groups Solvency II internal model which will be subject to Prudential Regulation Authority review and approval before its formal adoption in 2016.
We do not expect to submit our Solvency II internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval until 2015 and therefore these economic capital disclosures should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved internal model.
