Introduction Chief Executives statement Key events The clients and staff of Taylor Young Investment Management moved across to our systems and London office in early 2013 following our acquisition of the business at the end of 2012.
This has been a successful acquisition, bringing across a net 367.4 million of funds under management and eight new investment management colleagues.
Our Newcastle and Lymington offices, opened at the start of 2013, are now fully operational and are working hard to build their client bases.
The roll-out of our new asset allocation modelling software across Rathbone Investment Management commenced in late 2013.
This exciting tool enables each of our investment managers to analyse any number of their Performance clients portfolios and actively compare them to model strategies.
The ability to make this comparison quickly Our 2013 performance was, as always, affected by the and conveniently should significantly improve the efficiency markets.
There were several periods of uncertainty but of managing portfolios, allowing more time to be spent markets generally improved throughout the year and ended communicating with existing clients as well as gaining relatively high, having a positive impact on our fee and new ones.
This positive market sentiment also One of the reasons for the share placing at the benefited our net organic growth rate, which is again above end of 2012 was to enable us to expand our loan book.
Client loans now total almost 90 million, up 37.0% from We achieved a key milestone when our total funds the end of 2012.
As well as a welcome solution for clients, under management exceeded 20 billion in April and this has helped to offset continued low interest income from by the year end this had increased to 22.0 billion.
our charity team grew their funds under management to We continue to develop our marketing initiatives 2.7 billion by the year end: their funds under management and our support of English Lacrosse in particular.
This has have doubled over the last five years.
resulted in favourable publicity for Rathbones.
Another area of significant growth was our unit trust business where funds under management increased 38.5% to 1.8 billion.
2014 has also started positively with Retirement significant inflows into the Income and Global Opportunities funds in particular.
On 2 December 2013 we announced that I will be retiring at Costs increased during 2013, due to investment the end of February 2014.
I joined the group in 1999 as the and higher variable awards, which are performance related.
finance director, taking over as chief executive at the end of We continue to invest in our systems and expect this to 2004.
This has been a fascinating and challenging period, deliver benefits in the coming years.
We are also spending characterised by unstable markets.
Over this period the more money on our research process and anticipate business has grown from 5 billion of funds under expanding the number of people dedicated to this area.
This achievement is entirely Profit before tax of 44.2 million in 2013 was up down to the people who work for Rathbones, and I will miss 14.8% 2012: 38.5 million.
Given this increase and the them all as I move to a plural career.
Philip Howell will take improving economic picture, the board has decided to on the role of chief executive a year after he joined as my increase the final dividend by 1.0p, making the total dividend deputy.
Having spent the last year working with Philip I for the year 49.0p 2012: 47.0p.
believe he is the ideal person to lead Rathbones in the future.
I wish him and everyone at Rathbones well.
Thank you all for your support over the last 15 years.
Regulation Andy Pomfret Regulation remains a key issue for all financial services firms.
Chief Executive Although we consider our banking licence is an important differentiator amongst our peers, we are subject to two 19 February 2014 regimes, which results in a significant increase in the time and cost of dealing with our regulators.
European legislation is also increasingly impacting the UK wealth management and banking sectors.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Although this section is titled strategic report, as noted on page 70 for the purposes of Chapter 4A of the Companies Act 2006, the full strategic report comprises the following sections: chairmans statement: chief executives statement: our business: strategy and key performance indicators: risk management: Rathbones performance: segmental review: financial position: liquidity and cash flows: and corporate responsibility report.
6 Our business 12 Strategy and key performance indicators 14 Risk management Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 5
