24 Our focus will be determined by where our customers need us, and where we can serve their needs better than anyone else.
Since 2009 RBS has cleaned up the worlds We hold many excellent market leading Chief Executives largest bank balance sheet by removing positions across the bank and, despite more than 1 trillion in assets.
This was a the distractions of our recovery, there are review remarkable achievement, born of absolute areas where we have started to excel for our necessity, but delivered with exceptional skill.
But this remains an inconsistent picture and the returns in our strongest Ross McEwan These skills now need to be deployed on a businesses can often be diluted by weaker Chief Executive task of equal magnitude: creating a stepparts of the franchise, the price of past change in the customer service and financial misconduct and an uncompetitive cost base.
The hardest part of our financial restructuring is now complete, We are clear on our purpose as a bank: and we now need to use our strengths and to serve customers well, but we are yet to capabilities to make RBS an example for operate in a way that means we can really everything that should be right with banking.
Delivering on our purpose will mean running the bank differently.
Since taking up post in October, I have listened extensively to our customers and To meet more of our customers needs we our staff.
It is clear to me that people have must earn more of their trust.
This starts not given up on us.
Our customers tell me we with improving the things that matter most to have good people with good intentions.
But customers, and then rewarding their loyalty.
they also tell me they are frustrated by the There are too few rewards for customer loyalty way we work.
in banking and we need to change this.
Loyal and rewarded customers are the basis for the The potential for RBS is tangible, we have higher quality earnings we intend to deliver.
points of brilliance, but these are masked by a heavily damaged reputation, very high Change wont happen overnight, but we cost base and a structure that reflects the are clear where we can improve and our bank we are leaving behind, not the one we progress will be evident quarter-by-quarter.
We have already started calling out the barriers to our ambition.
Chief Executives review 25 The opportunity cost of our current approach For the full year, we reported a pre-tax loss Cost and Complexity: There was a is clear.
We have an 18% share of the GB of 8.2 billion.
The loss includes 3.8 billion necessary complexity to running an main current account market but less than of legacy litigation, conduct and regulatory organisation with a 2.2 trillion balance sheet, half our customers have a mortgage with us.
costs and 4.8 billion of impairments and as ours was five years ago, but this need The same is true in different forms across all other losses relating to the establishment of has reduced as we have scaled the bank our businesses and paints a clear picture of RBS Capital Resolution RCR.
dramatically down over recent years.
I know this frustrates our need to simplify our structure and cost base people, all of whom want to prove the worth of Looking at underlying performance, total to match.
this bank through better service to customers.
income was down 2.3 billion for the year, primarily reflecting lower revenues from RBS remains a complex bank.
We can be The lack of connectivity for customers is the re-sized Markets business while costs hard to do business with, costly to operate, a by-product of our own complexity.
Too were only down 0.5 billion pushing the and complicated to work in.
We have seven many customers are forced to bank around cost:income ratio towards the worse end of customer-facing divisions as well as RCR us: adapting their behaviour to fit with our our peer group at 67%.
and central functions, many of which are processes.
Its frustrating for them and value duplicated across divisions.
Across this we destructive for us.
Returns varied across our businesses, but have hundreds of internal committees.
These only UK Retail and Wealth delivered returns are costly barriers to interaction between our Our customers rightly demand that we are above the cost of equity.
That said, the bank people and with our customers, meaning we competitive, in every setting and in every continued to make progress despite our lose out too many times on the opportunity to sector.
We currently carry the cost base of a financial performance.
serve them with more products and services.
global financial services group when in fact we are now largely a UKbased bank.
Our Our business milestones included completing This complexity shows in our cost:income operating model means our customers and the run-down of another 29 billion of Nonratio, which reaches 73% when fully loaded shareholders end up paying for parts of the Core assets ahead of plan and taking to include the bank levy and restructuring business that cost too much and deliver too the total reduction since Non-Core was costs.
Reducing costs and divesting little in their interests.
established to 230 billion setting up the businesses in the bank will inevitably result RCR unit and reducing risk-weighted assets, in reduced staff levels.
We do not yet have This needs to change.
and hence our risk profile, by 66 billion, on a detailed plans for implementation and fully loaded Basel III basis.
as always we will deal with such matters RBS needs a strategy that will address the sensitively, talking to our staff before weakness in our performance for customers, We also cancelled the 8 billion Contingent communicating any such changes.
so that we can provide acceptable returns to Capital Facility with HM Treasury, reduced our our shareholders.
The business review I have stake in Direct Line Group to 28.5% in line Trust and Reputation: Behaviour and conducted has revealed our key challenges, with our commitment to the EC and we are performance influence the perception of but it has also given us a clear path to improve in advanced discussions to restructure the worth.
RBS carries huge reputational discount the bank.
due to the extent of bad headlines the bank attracts.
This carries through into our customer On every dimension our opportunity to It is clear that the underlying performance and investor interaction and can only be improve the relative and absolute performance over the last year underlines the need for us to solved by a sustained improvement in the of the bank is significant.
It is my job to make shift the emphasis from restoring the balance quality of our earnings and meaningful change sure our strategy for customers translates into sheet to recharging our performance.
in the way we deal with customers.
Why we must change Our customers like and trust the people 2013 Financial performance Capital: The capital plan we announced in they deal with, but not the bank itself.
We This bank has had an extraordinary five years.
November outlined a number of concrete can change this by moving more of the Cleaning up a 2.2 trillion balance sheet whilst actions to place the bank on a sure footing.
appropriate decision making and process addressing the many failings of the past has Among them, the creation of RCR and the management closer to the people who deal carried a very heavy cost, which shows in flotation of Citizens Financial Group will allow with customers.
us to target a Common Equity Tier 1 capital position of 12% or greater by the end of 2016.
Performance: Great companies know that Even by recent standards, 2013 was a difficult quality service goes hand-in-hand with year.
Regulatory fines, wide-ranging customer The capital plan has been designed to allow disciplined management: they chase down complaints, technology problems and public us to focus without distraction on improving costs intelligently so they can invest more for questioning of our integrity all weighed heavily, our operating performance.
They prioritise and invest with and bring into sharp focus the job we have relentless focus on the areas that deliver the at hand.
We will do what it takes to reach and maintain strongest, most sustainable returns.
26 RBS has earned credibility for the execution of Only 30% of our people today deal directly Ahead of results, we announced that we would our financial restructuring.
The same discipline with the customer.
By 2017 more than half will take an additional 2.9 billion of charges for and focus is now needed on our day-to-day deal directly with the customer and all our litigation and conduct related matters.
While operating performance to better deliver for people will be measured against our success these charges were in our future capital plan, the customer.
The costs that subdue our in improving customer advocacy.
provisions were recognised in 2013 and performance need to be intelligently removed reduced our fully loaded Basel III Common and redirected towards activities that enhance Our focus will be determined by where our Equity Tier 1 ratio to 8.6% at the end of 2013. our earnings.
customers need us, and where we can serve their needs better than anyone else.
So how do we get to our 12% 2016 target?
Our new strategy This will primarily be due to the successful We now have a strategy to deliver a The UK is our home market and our strongest run-down of RCR and the IPO of Citizens, as sustainable bank with a clear ambition: we market.
It is also our biggest advantage.
Our well as further targeted risk-weighted asset want to be number one for customer service, corporate customer trade flows mean we need reduction, which will continue to be the main trust and advocacy, in every one of our a strong European and US presence, so this drivers of our plan to deliver our 12% target by chosen business areas by 2020. is where we will be.
Our UK clients rely on the end of 2016. inward investment, so well retain a presence Our ambition aims to deliver a bank that is in Asia.
Citizens Financial Group: The cornerstone more trusted than others in the UK.
We will of the capital plan is the IPO of Citizens earn the trust of customers by serving them Our three customer businesses will cover Financial Group in the United States.
We have better than any other bank.
Personal & Business Banking, Commercial & appointed advisers and this is on schedule for Private Banking, and Corporate & Institutional later this year.
Quality service leads to repeat business and Banking.
Across the businesses we will have customer advocacy.
Repeat business and one management team, working to one joinedRCR: The creation of RCR from 1 January higher advocacy leads to sustainable income.
2014 originally identified 38 billion of third We wont compromise on this logic.
party assets that were highly capital intensive.
The businesses will be built on franchises that This represented 5% of our funded balance The bank will be structured to deliver this can be number one for customers.
We have a sheet but used up 20% of our capital.
ambition by organising around the needs of family of brands across the bank and will use our customers.
these to deliver on our ambition.
Mainly as a result of the increased impairments we have taken and significantly We will collapse seven operating divisions Not every business in our current structure higher levels of disposals in Non-Core than into three customer businesses that can will be best placed to deliver on our strategy.
had been forecast, the opening balance is understand our customers needs and provide Technology investment will enable some to 29 billion of third party assets and 65 billion appropriate, consistent services far better improve service at a rate that outpaces the of risk-weighted asset equivalents RWAe.
than we can across current silos.
market, but others will not.
This reduction in assets has also resulted in a corresponding decrease in the banks funding Our support functions will be smaller, For those activities where we cant see a clear requirements.
more expert and dedicated to helping the path to being number one, we will review on businesses succeed for customers.
We will the basis of fix, close or dispose.
These will UK branch divestment: To meet our ECrun highly disciplined and well managed become clear as each of our three businesses mandated branch divestment, the Williams & conduct and risk functions to maintain safety defines its new customer franchises over the Glyn brand will return to the high street via an and soundness.
IPO over the coming years.
To achieve this we signed a deal with a consortium of investors This will be a highly effective bank and The three businesses of the go-forward bank led by Corsair Capital and Centerbridge in the medium term we will aim to deliver have been designed against a number of Partners in September 2013.
The business will a cost:income ratio including bank levy, goals.
Firstly, they will better serve customer require separation from RBS and this process restructuring charges and, from 2015, the EU needs than the existing operating divisions.
resolution fund charge of around 55%, falling Secondly, they will help eradicate duplication in the long term to around 50%.
of cost in both the front and back office.
Ulster Bank: The thinking behind every Thirdly, they will position us to deliver a aspect of our new strategy applies to our The frontline of this bank is where well stand sustainable return on equity in each business.
business in the island of Ireland.
Accountable, trusted professionals will staff the perimeter of the bank and drive it Update on capital plan Consumers and businesses across the forward.
They will be supported by simple, We announced in November that we will target island of Ireland deserve a better banking effective processes on a sound technology a fully loaded Basel III Common Equity Tier service.
To achieve this, however, we must platform.
1 ratio of 12% or greater by the end of 2016 change the way we currently organise our which will principally be delivered through the business in the Irish market place.
We took Capital Resolution Group.
the first major step at the end of 2013 when we Chief Executives review 27 announced our intention to remove 9 billion we need to reward our existing shareholders Serving customers of the worst credit risks from the Ulster Bank for their patience and attract new ones based We exist to serve customers.
We earn their balance sheet.
Our second step is focused on our potential and performance.
trust by focusing on their needs and delivering on improving customer experience and excellent service.
Measure 1: Customer We will target the best Net Promoter Score Working together As outlined in November, we are reviewing our in the market in the long term in each of our We care for each other and work best as business to make it viable and sustainable into chosen business areas.
The most trusted one team.
We bring the best of ourselves to the future.
In this regard we are accelerating bank in the UK in the long term.
work and support one another to realise our our strategy for the bank to improve service to potential.
our customers, reduce costs and simplify our Measure 2: Efficiency operating model.
We will aim to deliver a cost:income ratio Doing the right thing including bank levy, restructuring charges We do the right thing.
We take risk seriously Our bank in Northern Ireland will benefit from and, from 2015, the EU resolution fund and manage it prudently.
We prize fairness a closer integration with our personal and charge of approximately 55% in the medium and diversity and exercise judgement with business franchises in the rest of the United term, falling in the long term to around 50%.
There are meaningful synergies On the same basis, we target a reduction in in terms of investment, costs and customer our costs to approximately 8 billion in the Thinking long term experience from doing this.
It is essential medium term.
We know we succeed only when our customers if we are to provide a more appealing and and communities succeed.
We do business in compelling service to our customers in Measure 3: Returns an open, direct and sustainable way.
Northern Ireland under the Ulster Bank brand.
Our overall targeted return on tangible equity RoTE will be approximately 9-11% in the These values are the basis for how we lead, In the Republic of Ireland we will continue to medium term.
Our long-term RoTE target is how we reward, how we make decisions and explore further opportunities to transform our 12% plus.
how we treat our customers and each other.
We have a range of options but we They are not yet etched in stone, but become are now clear on the goal: we will build on our Measure 4: Capital strength stronger the more they are tested.
They are position to be a compelling challenger bank to We will target a CET1 capital ratio, on a fully core to us succeeding as a bank.
loaded Basel III basis, of 12% or greater by the end of 2016.
Our targeted leverage ratio, Conclusion Our customers in the island of Ireland need to on the same basis, will be 3.5-4% in the medium RBS isnt just any bank.
Few, if any, know that we are committed to providing them term and 4% or above in the long term.
comparisons do justice to the scale of the with a great everyday banking service.
We will turnaround that RBS required.
finalise our plans in the coming months but These simple measures mean we will strike a this is about a change in business strategy not permanent balance between the needs of our Weve got to a point of safety and soundness a withdrawal from the market.
through a steady focus and patient determination.
There will be more things from These moves are designed to position the How well do business our past that come back to haunt us, but they bank to do more for our customers and The scale of the challenge we have faced will be fewer in number.
consequently reward our shareholders for over the last few years taught us a simple their patience.
fundamental lesson: you cannot succeed at Over time, with steady focus and disciplined your customers expense.
This is why last year delivery, the new RBS will emerge.
The Measures that matter we agreed a very simple purpose for the bank: businesses we operate will be highly effective We will only succeed in delivering our goals to serve customers well.
and relentless in their pursuit of delivering if everyone who works in the bank is clear on service that makes us number one for the measures that matter.
It is too easy to be Our future is not about us, its about our customers.
distracted by measures that flatter progress customers.
These words greet our employees on things that ultimately dont count towards as they walk into our offices every day.
They We will be simple to do business with, free our ambition.
have come to represent a shorthand for what from distractions and supported by a strong went wrong, but also what we need to get right.
The measures we use must have credibility with customers and the wider public if we Although we remain in the shadow of our The outcome will be a bank that is truly trusted are to regain trust.
And they must focus the past conduct failings, we have a clear and by customers.
bank relentlessly on improving returns for universal set of values that bind the bank shareholders.
It is abundantly clear to me that together.
