18 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT STEPHEN HESTER WE BELIEVE RSA CAN BE A STRONGLY Group Chief Executive PERFORMING COMPANY WITHIN ITS INDUSTRY AND WE HAVE PUT IN PLACE DETERMINED ACTION PLANS TO ACHIEVE THAT GOAL.
We believe RSAs core businesses to be set ever higher.
RSA cannot achieve its competitively strong and capable of good objectives without a strong capital position.
They are managed by skilled Our customers, rating agencies and and dedicated staff whose services will be regulators demand this, as we must demand essential in the years ahead.
I have found it of ourselves.
Without such strength, and nothing since joining that leads me away the discipline to sustain it, the company from the view that, with the right focus cannot succeed.
Business and strategic and strategy, RSA can achieve its potential.
decisions become constrained and So our mission is clear.
There is suboptimal, and the companys potential significant change to bring about, and through will not be realisable.
that we must manage RSA with clarity, We work for our Shareholders.
Our job determination and effectiveness.
Our goal is to set a disciplined strategic framework is to make the Groups business attractive, within which our potential can best be sustainable and as valuable as it can be.
We need to operate crisply and We operate across three dimensions: effectively within that framework to build Customers are our lifeblood.
Serving them the best performing businesses that we well is our purpose.
Across RSA our are capable of.
We need to communicate May I say firstly that I am greatly encouraged businesses are in good shape based on clearly what we are doing and why, and by, and appreciative of, the welcome the confidence and trust of the 19 million to ensure it represents the best long-term extended by the Board and the wider RSA customers we serve.
But we aspire to path to shareholder value.
We are in the difficult position of both keep improving, and our industry is tough, asking shareholders for significant funds and competitive and evolving.
To improve and Our 2013 results announcing poor results for 2013.
I therefore to succeed is a constant battle.
It will require At a normalised level our 2013 results show want to offer you my initial views on RSA, a tighter focus on what we do best: a more the capabilities and potential of the core its strengths and weaknesses, as well as give disciplined and effective use of technology: businesses we must build on.
On 8.7bn you a sense of how I see the way forward.
a tougher approach to cost efficiency: and net written premiums, the combined ratio There is no shrinking away from hard a greater focus on improving the returns was just 99.6% with an underwriting profit truths or the action that must be taken.
on capital across more of our business lines.
But that would be a ratio of 96.8% Good work has been done in setting up and a 309m underwriting profit adjusting the strategic review we report on.
There We are in a capital intensive, regulated out the issues in Ireland, above trend is strong backing from the Board and within industry.
After the worlds economic weather and reserving actions in the year.
the company for the path ahead.
shocks of 200809, the capital bar is being RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 19 The operating results in 2013 are poor However, this self-help, while extensive, returned to shareholders through other overall.
RSAs problems in Ireland and is not enough.
Further disposals at this time means.
The pace with which dividends return weather issues across the Group hit hard would take too long and be uncertain as to to this target range will be determined by the but are recognised and action has been taken.
value, especially were we to be perceived pace and success of execution of our recovery Our businesses in Canada, Scandinavia and as distressed sellers.
They would also risk plans, by markets and by the evolution of Latin America are leaders in their respective value damage from loss of capital diversity capital requirements from rating agencies markets and offer the potential for good and heavier weighting of legacy liabilities and regulators.
Any 2014 interim dividend, returns and premium growth.
In the UK, in the remaining group.
so soon after the proposed rights issue we have the opportunity and need to improve We reluctantly concluded we must proceeds are received, is likely to be modest.
our performance and have already started ask shareholders, via a rights issue, for a Our action plan this journey, although there is more to substantial sum to augment the self help The key ingredients of our plan are therefore: do in this tough competitive market.
and complete our capital plan.
This issue, Low interest rates are set to restrain Group which has been fully underwritten on a 1.
Tighten the strategic focus of the Group investment income for some time.
And standby basis by our banks, at 775m so we can concentrate on performing our spread of smaller market activities is an represents c. 20% of our market value as at sustainably well in core businesses.
investment distraction too wide for success.
This money is needed to get our 2.
Reset the quantity and quality of capital We have also taken some significant capital position to a strong place, anticipatory strength the Group works with, and the non-cash charges at the year end to recognise of industry capital trends and allow our action disciplines that will sustain it.
This requires the facts of the situation we now deal with.
plan for the business to be constrained by focus and transparency on risk profile as There is some goodwill from past acquisitions value and not by capital distress.
It is needed well as on the capital that supports it.
Our UK business to protect shareholders existing investment spent heavily on capitalised technology in RSA and to allow the actions we plan 3.
Improve business performance and the between 2006 and 2011 which has not to make the most of our future value.
Groups ability to sustain it.
This means produced the scale of improvement targeted The actions already taken, together underwriting, portfolio, expense and and needs to be partly written down.
with the proposed rights issue which is distribution actions.
It means technology Prudent management dictates that we lower fully underwritten, will increase our capital actions and people actions too.
the discount rate on long-tail liabilities.
surplus on an Insurance Groups Directive Together, these actions represent a fast The Towers Watson review of our overall IGD basis to an estimated 1.3bn and on and determined reset of RSAs direction reserves has confirmed that they fall within an Economic Capital ECA basis to an and finances.
However, it is likely to take a range of reasonable best estimates.
Ongoing action, including a few years to get the whole of the Group disposals, will improve this further.
Our capital position performing as we would like.
In the earlier There is no single capital measure that A new strategic focus part of that period there are likely to be other captures what we need to achieve.
But across RSA will be operated with discipline and adjustments to strategy and finances as the the various ratings, internal and regulatory effectiveness to serve customers well, and overhaul deepens and takes hold, not least measures, we simply do not have enough build shareholder value from a strong capital in terms of reorganisation programmes tangible equity to properly support our platform across its main core businesses.
This is partly due to 2013 setbacks These are in the UK and Ireland, Scandinavia, We currently hope to achieve returns and partly to rising regulatory standards.
Our geographical in the 1215% range on tangible equity over But it also reflects a business that over some spread will reduce considerably outside the medium-term on an equity base that years has become gradually undercapitalised this core Group over the next few years.
rises still further as a result of completing and overleveraged, and has suffered from There will also be business lines within the the actions we have outlined.
weakened tangible equity with acquired core group which we adjust significantly.
RSA in the future goodwill, software expenditure and high We target business where we can sustain Our strong and shared ambition is to see dividends relative to profits earned.
In the leadership positions with customers whilst RSA as a resilient and valuable company, future, we intend to maintain stronger capital earning better than cost of capital for performing consistently at its best.
We are metrics targeting at least median comparable shareholders.
We value diversity and balance a leading, international insurer.
provided it does not come at the expense do business we will do it well, and be known We are taking strong action and already of those core disciplines and provided our for our service and appeal to customers.
in 2014 improvement has come from a Group has the resources and capitalisation Our finances will be solidly based and 550m Adverse Development reinsurance to succeed with the business we take on.
provide a resilient platform from which to policy taken out, the sale and leaseback We will consider further options as do business, and with a strength all can trust.
of our Swedish headquarters and the sale the Group stabilises.
If there are sensible Our business needs to operate well of most of the equities in our investment alternatives to further reduce legacy risks or relative to comparable peers and make portfolio.
Selected business disposals are otherwise create value we will examine them.
returns in excess of the cost of the increased underway and we have a target for 2014 of The impact of the 2013 results is that a tangible capital we will employ.
We will keep 300m of proceeds from these.
There will final dividend cannot be justified.
We regret working until that is achieved.
be other smaller non-core disposals this.
However, we are clear that dividends thereafter and a tougher regime throughout are an important component of shareholder the Group of capital discipline, including returns for companies in the general significant portfolio reductions where target insurance industry, and RSA will be managed risk return metrics are not reached.
We are with that goal in mind.
Looked at in this early sharply increasing our focus on expenses stage of RSAs recovery actions, a mediumand aim to improve expense ratios across term goal of paying out 4050% of earnings the business with associated restructuring in dividends seems sensible.
Should unused Stephen Hester costs for implementation to come.
surplus capital still develop this can be Group Chief Executive
