2 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executives Statement 013 will be remembered as one of the most significant years 2in our history.
Quite apart from the strong performance in all aspects of our business, it was also a year in which we became a wholly independent FTSE company for the first time, having attracted a number of new institutional shareholders as the Lloyds Banking Group LBG sold their 57% holding in us.
As well as thanking Lloyds for their support in recent years, I would like to thank our existing shareholders who have increased their holdings in us.
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome our new shareholders and thank them for investing in us.
It was also a year in which we made some important decisions for the future, affecting our back office infrastructure and our distribution capabilities.
I comment further on both these initiatives later in this statement.
Against this backdrop, and with the benefit of improved sentiment for investments, I am very pleased to report another david bellamy record year that saw our funds under management increase by Chief Executive 9.5 billion to a new record high of 44.3 billion.
As I have said previously, there is a reassuring consistency about our business, which is most clearly demonstrated by the sustained growth in our funds under management over the last five years.
Over this period of changing economic and market conditions, funds under management have grown by a compound 22% p. a. through new business and investment performance to 44 billion at the end of 2013. new business and Funds under management New single investments of 7.2 billion were 22% higher than 2012, with clients choosing to invest broadly evenly across our life, pension and unit trust ISA investment tax wrappers.
Alongside those new investments, our Partners once again did an excellent job of looking after clients and this is demonstrated by the continued strong retention of existing funds enabling us to report net inflows of 4.3 billion, up 28% on the previous year.
As I mentioned above, those net inflows, together with very healthy growth in most equity markets, enabled us to report growth in funds under management of 27% to 44.3 billion.
Clients net InFlOw OF Funds At the heart of this sustained growth is the importance we place on maintaining long lasting relationships with our Partners and 4.3 billion clients and serving them well.
2012: 3.35 billion We are very clear that if we do this well, we will maintain our strong retention record and attract new clients and investments through referrals and introductions.
That was further evidenced last year Funds undeR management by the introduction of over 45,000 clients to St. Jamess Place.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 the st. Jamess Place Partnership We also regularly seek feedback from our clients and Partners.
In 2013, alongside the impressive financial results, we continued For example, each year we commission the independent research to attract high quality advisers to join us.
The near 10% increase specialists, Ledbury Research, to conduct a review amongst a in the size of the Partnership to 1,958 was very encouraging and random sample of clients.
Whilst there is always room for bears testimony to the outstanding reputation that we have built improvement, the results of their latest review, carried out at the for both the quality of our client proposition and the level of end of 2013, were very encouraging with clients reporting higher support and development our Partners receive.
Increasing the levels of overall satisfaction, levels of service, communication and number of Partners and providing them with the tools and advocacy relative to both the feedback given in previous years and support to deliver high quality outcomes for clients is one of the the wider marketplace.
key drivers to our achieving our long term growth objectives.
Such research, together with the direct contact we maintain with Whilst we are confident that we can continue to attract clients, reassures us that our clients value the importance we established high quality advisers, we are conscious of the fact that place on looking after their wealth through our distinct approach very few companies are investing in the development of new to investment management.
In recognition of this, we have invested in our new Academy programme.
Re-launched in 2012, we saw a further Investment management 60 students join the Academy last year, bringing the total to over Over the last 12 months, the slowly improving economic 100.
Alongside them, we also saw 40 Next Generation students backdrop and the continued low interest rates have been key to sons and daughters of existing Partners begin their careers with the growth in investment markets in the UK, US and Europe, us via the Academy.
If all goes according to plan, we can expect albeit at the expense of savers in traditional bank and building around 50 or so students to graduate as either Partners or society accounts.
advisers during the course of the next year.
We also aim to attract a further 50-60 new entrants to the Academy during In the UK, the combination of economic policy and, in 2014 and are planning to expand the programme through the particular, of keeping interest rates low for so long, appears to be introduction of regional based Academies, the first of which will finally bearing fruit, with signs that the economy is improving.
begin in Manchester later this year.
The key indicators on growth and employment are looking more positive now than at any time in the last five years.
We now offer the most comprehensive geographic access to wealth management advice in the UK.
Notwithstanding the fact that we Stock markets in the major economies performed strongly last remain very focused on our UK business, we see an opportunity to year, with the FTSE 100 index up 14% in capital growth, 19% expand our services overseas to the expatriate community.
This is with dividends reinvested.
Slightly higher growth was seen in the an area that we have been exploring for some time and I am pleased US and Europe, enabling investors in equities to enjoy improved to confirm that we are close to completing the acquisition of a returns as companies continue to return to stronger growth and well-respected adviser business, which has an existing team of profitability: the main exception being the lower growth seen in advisers in Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai specialising in the stock markets of the emerging economies and the Far East.
That provision of financial advice to members of the expatriate said, the Japanese stock market had an excellent year, making community in the Far East.
This is an exciting development for us significant gains, albeit these were offset somewhat by the that we believe sits perfectly with our comprehensive investment weakness of the currency.
approach and, subject to regulatory approval, the acquisition should be finalised in the first few months of 2014.
Against this backdrop, St. Jamess Place equity based and managed funds also did very well last year, providing strong back-office administration double-digit returns for the majority of our clients who were In 2013, we embarked on one of the most significant invested in them.
The general sentiment toward investment today developments in our back office for some time.
The first step is far more positive than it has been for a number of years and, combines our two major back offices under one management, and at a time when access to trusted advice is increasingly in short that was completed at the start of 2014.
IFDS, which already supply, I believe our Partners are very well positioned to provide administers our unit trust and ISA business, has now taken on the highly personalised advice to investors on how best to achieve management of the team in Craigforth who administer our other their investment objectives.
The second step will be to put in place one unified, client-centric computer system that will be available to all the back-offices, enabling them to deliver improved service and improved efficiency for the business.
4 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executives Statement continued Financial Performance Partners and employees I am pleased to say that the businesss financial performance has The strength and continued growth of the business is due in no been very positive in 2013. small part to the hard work and dedication of our Partners, their staff and all of our employees and administration support teams.
On an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis, profit before shareholder tax increased to 190.7 million 2012: On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank everyone 134.6 million.
connected with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to these results and for their continued enthusiasm, dedication and Our European Embedded Value EEV basis operating profit for commitment.
2013 was 462.7 million 2012: 365.9 million reflecting good growth in new business and a strong positive experience variance.
the st. Jamess Place Foundation The St. Jamess Place Foundation has always been an important The Chief Financial Officers Report and Financial Review, on part of the Groups culture and we were delighted to celebrate pages 12 to 33, provide a comprehensive presentation of the the 21st anniversary of the Foundation in 2013 by raising a financial results for the year.
further 4.5 million, enabling us to support over 600 charitable projects.
This was very much a collective effort by the whole SJP dividend community, including employees, Partners, suppliers and others Leading on from these profit results, we continue to see a connected to SJP.
I would like to thank them all for helping to growing cash result, a trend that is expected to continue with the raise such an impressive sum.
Further details of our CSR increasing maturity of funds under management.
activities are set out on pages 39 to 45.
Consequently, given our ongoing confidence in the profile of the Outlook future cash emergence, we announced at the time of our interim I am confident that the growth we achieved in 2013, in both new results a 50% increase in the 2013 interim dividend and indicated investments and Partner numbers, bodes well for the continued that the full year dividend would be increased by a similar momentum in our business and for future growth in line with our amount.
I am therefore pleased to confirm the underlying cash result was up 67% to 139.9 million and, in line with this statement, we are pleased to confirm the 50% increase in the final dividend of 9.58p per share, bringing the full year dividend to 15.96p per share.
Furthermore, given our ongoing confidence in the cash David Bellamy emergence going forward, we anticipate a dividend increase in Chief Executive the range of 30 to 40% in 2014.
Beyond that, we fully intend to 24 February 2014 continue with a progressive dividend policy, growing the future dividend in line with the underlying performance of the business.
The final dividend for 2013, subject to approval of shareholders at our AGM, will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 April 2014 and, as with last year, a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP continues to be available for shareholders.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
