6 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Group Chief Executives review 2013 was a challenging year In 2013 Standard Chartered faced marginpressures in anumber of key businesses and markets.
Regulatory requirements and the bank levy putupward pressure oncosts.
Various factors drove a sharp increase in unsecured loan impairment.
A much more negative sentiment towards emerging markets affected valuations and transaction ows inWholesale Banking.
We also had to take a goodwill impairment on our business in Korea, given the severity of the challenges facing us and the industry as a whole in thatmarket.
As a result, we slipped from our trajectory of record income andprots, posting lower income and profits for the first time inover a decade.
Our share price fell, reecting both our own performance and investor sentiment towards our markets.
This is not what we aspire to achieve.
As the challenges have mounted, and our momentum slowed, we have been taking action to mitigate the impact and adapt to the changing environment.
Some of the steps we have taken are tactical, such as putting even tighter controls on spend and headcount, Peter Sands and fide-risking certain portfolios.
However, the more fundamental changes relate to our strategy and how we are Group Chief Executive organising ourselves and deploying our resources to deliver thesustainable, profitable growth and returns that drive 2013 was not a great year.
We are making shareholder value.
changes to adapt to the new realities.
Opportunities in our markets Wehave a strong balance sheet, great Investor sentiment towards emerging markets turned sharply sour from May 2013, and remains negative.
At least as far as client relationships and superb capabilities.
ourmarkets are concerned, we believe this is a short-term phenomenon, and that the longer-term attractions of Asia, Africa and the Middle East remain compelling.
In fact, we expect our markets to do rather better in 2014 thanthey did in 2013, with aggregate GDP growth rising from2.8 per cent to 3.5 per cent.
The underlying drivers of economic growth across the emerging world demographics, urbanisation, rapid growth in the consuming middle class and investment in infrastructure remain very strong.
By 2030, Asiaalone will add just over 2.2 billion people to the middle class, taking its share of the global total to 66 per cent.
When I talk to our clients, it is clear there is some disconnect between the dynamics of global financial markets and the drivers of the real economy.
Our clients see much, if not most, oftheir growth coming from the emerging world and particularly from Asia.
They see a robust recovery in the US and even a weak recovery in Europe as huge positives for Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
It may make perfect sense for investors to rebalance theirportfolios to capture the rebound in the West, but the resultingnegative impact on emerging market indices and valuations risks disguising the fundamental attractiveness ofthese markets.
Strategic report Group overview 7 Challenges in our markets Broader challenges While we are fundamentally positive about our markets, we In addition to issues specic to our markets, we face some arenot complacent, nor blind to the challenges.
Some of our broader challenges.
One is the ongoing torrent of regulatory markets face difficult political and social transitions that could change.
The Basel III agenda is nearing completion, which is have a significant impact on business confidence.
India aconsiderable achievement, and one we welcome, but this andIndonesia face important elections this year, which will risks being undermined by a profusion of unilateral initiatives determine the pace of future reforms and GDP growth.
What the global economy needs also concerned about the tensions between China and Japan now is consistency and stability in the international in the South China Sea.
However, in our view, China poses less risk than many A second big challenge, which affects the entire industry, is to Westernanalysts believe.
We dont underestimate the rebuild trust and credibility.
Put bluntly, society expects more of challenges China faces in shifting its economy from a us.
We must raise the bar on conduct, so that every employee resource-intensive, export-driven growth model to a more looks to comply with the spirit, not just the letter, of the laws and sustainable and balanced model in which consumption and regulations in everything we do.
services play a much bigger role.
Nor do we underestimate In 2013 we launched a multi-pronged programme to address thetask of taming excessive credit expansion, reining in the this challenge.
We have increased substantially the resources shadow banking sector and moving to full interest rate we devote to conduct issues.
We have invested in systems to liberalisation.
However, many of these issues, not least the enhance our controls and reduce the risk of manual errors.
We nature of shadow banking, are often misunderstood, and have re-launched our Group Code of Conduct the Code, deliberate acts of policy are sometimes misinterpreted as requiring every member of staff to complete mandatory problems.
China will encounter adjustment strains as it in-depth training and personally commit to the Code.
We have reshapes its economy and financial markets, but these are also sharpened the way we link performance assessment and unlikely to knock the country off a growth rate of around reward to personal values and behaviours.
We recognise that 7 per cent.
The new leadership is rmly in charge and seems we havent got everything right in the past and that we still have capable and determined to push ahead with ambitious reforms.
a lot of work to do in this area.
We are determined to make The shape of our business in China reects our assessment doing the right thing an imperative for everyone in the Group.
We are investing for growth, but we have no That is what our brand promise Here for good is all about.
exposure to the so-called trust sector or to municipal A third challenge is technology.
As a fundamentally digitisable government investment vehicles.
Our lending to commercial industry, every aspect of banking can be transformed by real estate and Chinese banks is highly selective.
This is as much an opportunity as a threat.
Through Some of the countries in our footprint are being directly technology-driven innovation, we can empower our clients, cut challenged by the impact of the tapering of quantitative costs and improve risk management, reinventing every aspect easingon currency and bond markets.
Underlying structural of the business.
The trick is to make it happen to our advantage, weaknesses have been exposed by the shift in sentiment.
rather than have it happen to us.
However, in terms of foreign exchange reserves, and the ability to finance balance of payments deficits, countries like India and Indonesia are in a far better place than they were at the time of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s.
8 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Group Chief Executives review continued Sharpening our strategic focus Client relationships At our annual strategy Board in June 2013 we took stock of our The five strategic aspirations crystallise what we want to strategy, asking tough questions about the growth potential in achieve.
Our strategy revolves around client relationships, our markets, our ability to win market share and the impact of notproducts or transactions.
We believe that we have scope amore challenging regulatory and market environment.
Since todeepen our client relationships further, particularly by capital and investment spend were going to be even scarcer focusing on the next 500 clients.
We could also do more to resources, we wanted to sharpen our focus, get clear on what builddeeper relationships with our smaller corporate, private we should be investing in and where we should cut back.
This is one of the key reasons why weare reorganising our business, combining Wholesale and Our answer, which we set out in November 2013, was to go Consumer Banking to create three client segment groups and tothe core of what we are all about.
We bank the people and five product groups, under the leadership of Mike Rees, with companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth effect from 1 April 2014. across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
This is the essence of who we are.
We are not trying to bank everybody, but we do For example, we are creating a Commercial Banking want to bank those that are making things happen.
We are segmentwhich will make it much easier to focus on the focused on investment, trade and wealth, and we are sticking needsof mid-sized corporate clients.
These are a huge part tothe markets we know well: Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
ofthe economies in which we operate up to 60 per cent andrepresent a rapidly growing component of the banking From this core statement, we built an overarching framework revenue pool.
Yet, up to now we have failed to make the most that links our strategy to our performance, the way we run the ofthis opportunity: we have fragmented our efforts between bank, and our immediate priorities: Wholesale and Consumer Banking, and generate less than Five strategic aspirations that esh out how we will grow 10 per cent of our total income from these clients.
Now we will thecore take a much more integrated approach.
Through targeting high-growth and exporting industries and being more efficient Five tests that we are applying to more peripheral businesses in our on-boarding, we will grow our client base.
By leveraging to ensure we reinforce the core our network and full product capability, we will make ourselves A significant reorganisation of our regions, business and more relevant and deepen relationships with our clients.
And functions, to ensure alignment to the strategy and streamline when these clients get bigger, we will transition them up to the way we work ourCorporate and Institutional client segment, which is much easiernow that we are organised as one global business.
Our exed financial framework, which now comprises five metrics, including both positive jaws and capital accretion.
Grouping our Commercial clients with our Private Banking We will use this to explain our performance and ensure that business will facilitate cross-referral.
The new Commercial weare balancing the imperatives of near-term delivery against segment will start with around 50,000 clients, mainly longer-term strategic progress entrepreneurial, family-owned groups.
These are a perfect target market for Private Banking, yet up to now only a few Finally, our five priorities for 2014.
These are used to set havebecome Private Banking clients an obvious opportunity.
personal and team objectives across the Group, ensuring that everybody is marching to the same tune Strategic report Group overview 9 Wealth Trade The scale of the Private Banking opportunity across our We are already a top two trade bank by SWIFT data, and our markets is enormous.
Today there is some $10 trillion of assets goal is to be number one.
We continue to win market share, with under management AUM from high net worth individuals in trade assets up by 21 per cent in 2013, against market growth Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
By 2017, this number will more of around 6 per cent.
Of course, trade income was affected by than double.
We start with a very good platform, with $58 billion the sharp fall in margins, but we are well placed to benefit as in AUM, good product capabilities, experienced relationship margins stabilise.
managers and a network of advisory and booking centres.
We are taking advantage of the shift towards companies using However, we can scale up and enhance our offer, making more the renminbi RMB for trade and payments.
From virtually effective useof our client franchise and network.
A great nothing in 2009, some 16 per cent of Chinas trade, just over example is the Africa to London corridor, which we are superbly $731 billion, is now settled in RMB.
By 2020 this will more than positioned to serve, given our extensive African footprint and quadruple to over $3 trillion.
Highlighting the pace at which the London advisory and booking centre.
RMB is being internationalised, the Standard Chartered RMB The greater emphasis we are putting on Private Banking is just Globalisation Index, which measures the different aspects of one element of the way we are stepping up our efforts in the offshore activity, went up 84 per cent in 2013, and our own Wealth Management arena.
Given the pace of individual wealth international RMB payment ows were up 122 per cent.
In accumulation across our markets, and the relatively early stage December 2013, we launched RMB clearing in London via a of market development, there is a huge opportunity to provide joint venture with Agricultural Bank of China, and in February our retail and private banking clients with wealth management 2014 we executed the first RMB cross-border sweeping products and services.
Wealth Management is already a transaction for a company based in the new Shanghai substantial business for us, generating income of $1.3 billion FreeTrade Zone.
in2013, but this is only the beginning.
In order to create the capacity to achieve our strategic Our aspiration is to more than double Wealth Management aspirations, we need to sharpen our focus.
Therefore, we AUM by 2020 to $300 billion.
We are elevating Wealth havebeen systematically subjecting those businesses that Management from being a product group within Consumer areunderperforming, or less aligned to our core strategy, Banking to sit alongside our well-established Wholesale tovetests, asking tough questions about their strategic Banking product groups, such as Corporate Finance, relevance, alignment with Here for good, and sustainable Transaction Banking and Financial Markets, which are all economics.
As a result, we are exiting or reconguring a muchbigger.
It is also important to be more selective about the clients withwhom we build relationships.
We are exiting or reshaping relationships, both big and small, which offer no prospect of attractive returns, making clear to our clients that to be sustainable, our relationships have to be economically attractive for both sides.
This has made for some tough conversations.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Group Chief Executives review continued Korea Our financial framework We are continuing to take action on our most underperforming In November 2013 we set out what we described as our exed or problematic businesses, above all Korea.
Our business financial framework the metrics we would aim to deliver over inKorea had an extremely challenging 2013, with profits the next couple of years.
These are aspirations, and we dont beforethe goodwill deduction down $530 million to a loss of expect that we will always be able to deliver against all of them, $12 million.
Much of this was due to a sharp fall in Consumer but they provide a sense of what we are setting out to achieve.
Banking performance, given elevated levels of impairment up We do not expect to deliver double-digit income growth over 66 per cent and income falling by 12 per cent, partly as a result the next couple of years, given various pressures, not least of selective fide-risking of the unsecured book and the charge Korea.
However, we havent abandoned double-digit growth we have taken on the prospective sale of two small subsidiaries.
Given the scale of the opportunities Weak underlying trading performance was exacerbated by a in our markets, and the pace at which the demand for banking one-off tax-related charge of $54 million, and the non-repeat services is growing, we still believe this is a stretching, but ofproperty sales, which contributed $74 million in 2012. realistic, aspiration.
Against this, one positive factor was the continued strength of Of course, we are not going to compromise our risk appetite our network income relating to Korean clients, a significant and orstrategic discipline to chase rapid growth.
If market growing revenue stream of over $200 million.
circumstances only support somewhat slower growth, that We were not alone in encountering difficulties in Korea.
Sixofthe seven major banks saw income and profits fall by To protect earnings momentum in an environment of slower double-digit rates, and average return on equity was below income growth, we are shifting from a stance of growing costs 3per cent, the lowest for a decade.
broadly in line with income, to ensuring that costs grow more As the sixth-largest player, we cannot entirely escape the slowly than income.
In other words, shifting from neutral cost dynamics of the industry as a whole, but nor can we tolerate income jaws to positive jaws.
This will be challenging, given underperformance, since it creates a drag on the performance inationary and regulatory pressures, the bank levy and the of the Group as a whole.
Therefore, we are continuing to take measures we are taking to constrain RWA growth.
We must action on multiple fronts.
There is no silver bullet, but we are also create the capacity to keep investing for growth.
This shrinking the businesses, while very selectively investing to means we must generate several hundred millions of dollars of support the areas of most opportunity.
In 2013 we reduced productivity benets every year.
We did this in 2013 and intend risk-weighted assets RWA in Korea by 7 per cent, and in to keep doing so.
We are simplifying the Delivering positive jaws should help us achieve our aspiration structure, selling our small consumer finance and savings ofdouble-digit earnings-per-share growth, even at lower than banksubsidiaries, and will reduce the number of legal entities double-digit rates of income growth.
This in turn will help us from nine to three.
We are reducing costs as fast as we can, continue to improve returns on equity.
We already deliver with staffnumbers down by nearly 400 year on year.
We are returns above our cost of capital, and will continue to look to consolidating the branch network, down by 24 during 2013, improve returns, while also paying out a good level of dividends, aswe increasingly interact digitally with our clients.
We are as we have done consistently up till now.
redeploying capital in Wholesale Banking from locally oriented clients towards clients that can benefit from our network.
We In November 2013 we also introduced our fifth metric, of are also selectively fide-risking the unsecured book in Consumer growing profits after taxation faster than RWA.
We have broadly Banking and putting greater emphasis on Wealth Management.
funded our RWA growth through retained earnings, and we are in a strong position in terms of capital ratios.
Yet, given the As a result of these actions our business in Korea will be smaller, ongoing uncertainty about regulatory expectations, we think it more profitable and more focused on where we can play to our makes sense to manage for a positive capital trajectory to give strengths.
However, given the constrained context, we cannot us greater exibility and resilience.
achieve this transformation as swiftly as we would like, and Korea will continue to be very challenging during 2014.
Strategic report Group overview 11 Our 2014 priorities Outlook Our priorities for 2014 ow naturally from our strategic 2013 was not a great year for Standard Chartered, and 2014 aspirations and financial framework: willinevitably have its own challenges, but we are very clear onwhat we have to do.
We are making changes to adapt to First, to deliver profitable and capital accretive growth.
We have a strong balance sheet, great client disappointing performance in 2013, we are determined to get relationships and superb capabilities.
back to delivering the kind of results our investors expect from us.
This wont happen automatically or overnight.
Given the Our outlook for 2014 is one of modest growth.
Market and weakness of our performance in the fourth quarter of 2013, trading conditions are more volatile and difficult than a year ago.
weanticipate that the first half of 2014 may prove challenging.
While current performance momentum is ahead of the second However, we are confident that the actions we are taking will half of last year, performance in the first half of 2014 will remain give us the platform to deliver sustained and profitable growth.
challenged both at an income and profit level.
Second, to make tangible progress on our five strategic I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees for aspirations.
The reorganisation of our business will make their hard work, commitment and professionalism during 2013. adifference, enabling us to put sharper focus on the key Iwould particularly like to thank Richard Meddings for all he has strategicpriorities, optimising the deployment of capital and done in his 11 years as a Group Executive Director, including investment spend.
seven by my side as Group Finance Director.
I would also like tothank Steve Bertamini for his leadership in transforming our Third, to innovate, digitise and simplify in order to improve Consumer Banking business over the past five years.
To deliver positive jaws and keep investing for growth simultaneously, we have to be delivering Finally, I would like to thank our investors for their support significant productivity improvements every year.
That requires through these turbulent times.
constant innovation, a bias towards digitising everything we can, and a relentless focus on simplifying and streamlining the way we work.
Again, the reorganisation will help, as we strip out duplication and drive greater standardisation.
Fourth, to raise the bar on conduct, demonstrating that we are Here for good.
Peter Sands Finally, to accelerate the next generation of leaders.
Group Chief Executive Thereorganisation gives us a real opportunity to do this.
