14 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Chief Executives statement Our investment portfolio has continued to deliver double digitgrowth.
Our investment portfolio has continued to Our commitment to CD&R IX is a recent example deliver double digit growth and a considerable ofthis fund selection process.
CD&Rs investment outperformance of the wider market.
Looking at the strategy is built around a model that from the outset portfolio as a whole, the earnings of the underlying is focused on operational improvement through companies have shown good growth in aggregate utilising the combined skills of operating partners, over the year.
The significant operational and who themselves are former CEOs or senior corporate strategic initiatives instigated by the management leaders, and traditional private equity executives.
teams to ensure future value creation are now well This partnership of private equity and operational developed and are expected to begin to bear fruit in skills runs right through the deal process, from the coming 12 to 24 months.
origination through to due-diligence and post investment value creation stages with the operating Our portfolio is maturing and has been highly cash partners playing a very central role.
The fund will generative allowing us not only to deleverage, but focus on the industrials, business services, healthcare also to return a significant amount of capital to and consumer retail sectors, building a portfolio of shareholders.
During the year we have also made 12 to 15 companies with European companies 250.6 million of commitments to three leading expected to represent about 20% to 25% of the private equity managers.
The commitments to the fund.
From a geographic diversification and Fifth Cinven Fund and Permira V were made in the portfolio construction perspective the commitment first half with the third commitment, to Clayton to CD&RIX offers an attractive portfolio fit with Dubilier & Rice IX, made in December 2013. bothCinven and Permira.
The fund investment team continue to spend a considerable amount of time mapping both the US and European markets to ensure that SVG Capital Our strategy is underpinned commits to what we believe are the best private equity managers over the coming years.
Going by disciplined capital forward, we believe that the exceptional returns allocation and we believe from private equity investments are going to be harder to achieve and it will be the groups that can we have the beginnings of demonstrate that they have createdvalue through operational improvements and strategic change that a well diversified portfolio will outperform the widermarket.
of leading private equity investors.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 15 We will continue to add a select number of top Webelieve the strategic alliance will continue to performing managers to the portfolio over the generate value for shareholders and the team remain 28.9% coming 12 to 24 months in addition to making focused on growing funds under management.
total return on the select co-investments.
However, the pace of the investment portfolio Our strategy is underpinned by disciplined capital build out of the co-investment portfolio will be allocation and we believe we have the beginnings dependent onsuitable opportunities relative to other ofa well diversified portfolio of leading private equity uses of capital, due-diligence and overall portfolio fit.
investors, laying the foundations for future NAV The sale of 50.1% of SVG Advisers to Aberdeen Asset growth.
TheCompany ends the year with significant Management completed during the year, creating cash balances and we expect the portfolio to 151.1m aleading private equity investor, Aberdeen SVG, continue to be cash generative in the medium term.
of capital returned to with significant growth potential.
For much of the We remain focused on maximising shareholder shareholders over the year latter half of the year the team has been focused returns through disciplined capital allocation and are onintegrating the two investment teams and well placed to capitalise on potential opportunities as investment process, which is now complete.
Lynn Fordham Chief Executive 14 February 2014
