Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 5 5 5 5 5 Chief Executives review Darren Shapland Chief Executive 1.
Modernising the estate The success of our self-help activities We are part way through a three year programme of refurbishing in improving Group performance the UK store estate, introducing an updated store design, with a new, more contemporary feel, in which it is easier for customers during the period was particularly to shop.
This has involved improving natural light, updating encouraging, demonstrating that a signage, developing new layouts, replacing floor coverings and upgrading in-store lighting.
focus on factors within our control We have focused on the 357 larger out-of-town stores of the estate, can yield good results.
those circa 8,000 sq ft and above, of which 244 are circa 10,000 sq ft, including a bed department.
This excludes 22 of our stores trading While we expect trading conditions under the Storey Carpets brand.
The typical spend per store is around 55k, with post-refurbishment to remain challenging, we are sales showing an increase of around 10% compared to the unconfident this combination of selfinvested estate, resulting in an average payback of about one year.
As some of these stores have now passed their first anniversary, it help initiatives will underpin the has been encouraging to see they are continuing to show sales positive momentum of the Group.
growth above that of the un-invested estate.
Within this programme there were 57 smaller-scale refreshes of As the Chairman notes in his statement, the Group grew underlying newer stores which did not need a full refurbishment but required profits and generated cash during the year, with an encouraging some updating to align them to the latest look.
These typically cost increase in UK retail store like-for-like sales and a significant around 20k per store.
improvement in gross profit percentage year-on-year.
In the Rest To date, we have completed 186 modernisations, representing over of Europe, trading conditions in the Netherlands remained difficult 50% of this group of larger out-of-town stores, and the customer whilst progress has been made in the recovery plan for the Republic response has been very positive.
We aim to complete the of Ireland.
refurbishment of the remaining larger out-of-town stores over the The improvement in the Groups performance this year has been next two years.
driven, in large part, by the success of our programme of self-help At the same time as modernising the larger out-of-town locations measures, a number of which were accelerated on conclusion of the we have also been looking at our smaller format stores.
We have 47 review completed immediately following my appointment as Chief stores on high streets and a further 16 concessions sites, which tend Executive in May 2012.
The results from this package of initiatives to be between 2,000-4,000 sq ft in size.
We have trialled a sample have been very encouraging and further potential exists in the only format in two stores, with a special smooth flooring area and ongoing roll-out over the next two financial years.
extended ranges of roll stock samples, plus a dedicated area for The programme is concentrated on six elements, each of which is premium branded carpets within our range.
While we are still discussed in more detail below: refining the proposition, the results have been strong enough to support a plan to modernise the stores in this format.
Modernising the estate Our last group of stores are the mid-size locations of around 2.
Adjusting the store portfolio 4,000-8,000 sq ft, of which we have 36.
Again we have trialled a new 3.
Enhancing our range of floor coverings and services format, with the focus on sample only with a small takeaway range.
Optimising digital as part of a multi-channel offering The results have been encouraging and we are looking to finalise the elements of this mid-size format by October 2013.
Developing our bed proposition Following the success of the UK plan, we have also commenced 6.
Delivering a step change in service a similar refurbishment programme in the Rest of Europe to adapt to changing customer preferences.
By the end of the year, we had refurbished six stores with positive initial results.
Although trading conditions in this business remain challenging, we are planning a further four store refurbishments in the first quarter of this financial year, prior to assessing the potential for a further roll out.
uk 6 6 Business review continued Chief Executives review continued 2.
Adjusting the store portfolio stores by the end of July 2013.
Alongside this, we have introduced a At the end of April 2013 we had 478 stores trading in the UK new range of engineered wood, which is also being rolled out over and during the last 12 months we opened 11 stores and closed 23. the same time period.
We continue to believe this category will This net reduction is primarily the result of completing detailed provide an area of growth, supported by the strength of our value catchment analysis which identified a small number of overlaps, and service proposition.
where having more than one store in a town was not beneficial to In the Rest of Europe, we have adapted displays to broaden the profit or cash flow.
The new stores have been smaller than the estate colour choice on our most popular roll stock ranges and introduced average.
These are primarily high street stores located in the Greater LVT to all stores.
In addition, we have introduced a distressed wood London area, where there is a high concentration of potential collection along with sisal and sea grass, the latter two under the customers who currently do not have easy access to a Carpetright branding of Natural Collection.
We have been encouraged by the early trading results and see potential for a further 10-15 of these opportunities.
Optimising digital as part of a We continue to take a robust view at lease renewal, which provides multi-channel offering an opportunity to secure lower rental cost for future years.
In the Our customer research indicates that the nature of our product period we achieved an average rent reduction of over 10% on the means that the vast majority of customers prefer to visit a store to current rent payable in respect of leases which were renewed and make their purchase, to give them the opportunity to see and touch exited seven poor performing stores.
Within the next five years their choice of floor covering.
However, the internet is playing an 20% of the estate has lease renewals scheduled.
ever-increasing role in pre-purchase behaviour, becoming a vital research tool for many customers and the rapid growth of smart In the Rest of Europe we had 142 stores trading as at the end phone and tablet use also underlines the importance of having an of April 2013.
During the last 12 months we opened three stores effective and integrated digital proposition.
We now have 13 stores operating a sample only with a small takeaway range format, which has the benefit of lower We continued to develop and improve our online presence operating costs without negatively affecting customer choice.
By the end of the year, on a weekly basis we were This format allows us to reduce fixed occupancy costs by either achieving an average of over 87,000 unique visitors to our website, a sub-letting or handing back space to the landlord, hence 21% increase on the same period last year and this has produced a increasing profit.
corresponding increase in appointment leads.
Some of the increase is attributable to an enhanced search engine optimisation 3.
Enhancing our range of floor coverings programme and increased investment in pay-per-click.
The ability and services to track attributable sales has given us encouragement to invest more In the current economic environment our customers are looking in this area this year.
This initiative, alongside widening the range of harder than ever for value before making their purchase.
Based on available samples, has helped to increase the volume of sample our experience, we are adapting our ranges and promotional activity requests by 70%.
We have also continued to focus activity in to continue to offer the best prices across a broader flooring improving our conversion to sales ratio, through a call centre selection, to strengthen our product authority as market leader and manned by knowledgeable colleagues and by improved maximise our market opportunity.
In the UK, in line with broadening our appeal to more affluent In the Rest of Europe, we are developing a process for appointment customers, we introduced a selection of branded carpets at very leads and samples and improving the compatibility of our websites competitive prices, such as Brintons, Ulster and Westex, and sisal on mobile devices.
We expect to have this operational by the end of and sea grass ranges to the majority of stores during the period.
results have been encouraging, generating incremental sales.
Developing our bed proposition Analysis indicates that more of our customers are choosing to have Beds provide an important complementary revenue stream, in their carpet fitted for them, rather than doing it themselves.
As a our UK business, to our core floor coverings offer and we believe consequence, we are seeing a higher proportion of our pay and take this category has significant further growth potential.
We have roll stock which was traditionally taken home by the customer established a compelling offer with a typical in-store range of from the store on the day of purchase being fitted for the between 25-35 beds available at market leading prices, backed up customer.
The trend has enabled us to introduce samples of these by a good home delivery service.
At the end of April 2013 the offer products, enabling us to offer a wider selection, particularly in a Sleepright by Carpetright was trading from 271 stores 2012: 272 number of smaller stores.
The business delivered an increase in sales of 10.4% in the A further area of opportunity is to develop our smooth flooring year as a whole, with 5.6% in the first half and 15.2% in the second selection in the UK, building on our extensive knowledge and half, giving an indication of the momentum being achieved.
Beds success in this market in continental Europe, where it has now represent 6.7% of total UK sales revenue 2012: 6.1% and traditionally made up a much greater proportion of the sales mix.
10.8% of the sales mix in those stores where it is available.
Our The roll out of our stocked laminate offering has continued and is biggest opportunity is now in building customer awareness that we now in over 340 stores, alongside a laminate sample range available sell beds and, to support this, we are increasing our investment in in all stores.
In addition, we introduced a competitive Luxury Vinyl marketing activity focused on this area.
Tile LVT offer into 300 stores, with plans to extend this to over 440 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 7 7 By building on the lessons learnt in the UK we have looked to order rapidly.
Later this year, we are switching to a new transport replicate the bed proposition in the Netherlands, albeit adjusted fleet, which will reduce our fuel consumption and enable us to to reflect the needs of the local consumer.
We have opened bed increase the proportion of products under centralised distribution.
departments in two stores as a trial and are rolling this out to four The latter will free up time in store, to be invested in improving our more stores by the end of July.
These will be evaluated by the end customer service.
In the majority of instances, the last contact point the customer has with Carpetright is with the flooring fitter.
Delivering a step change in service recommend the use of one of 1,284 fitters who have been In an environment where customers service expectations continue independently assessed and validated.
To monitor the performance to rise, we believe there is an opportunity to drive our customer of the fitter, customers are contacted after the fitting to seek service standards higher and make them a real competitive comments on their experience.
This allows our store managers advantage.
This view is supported by externally conducted market to track individual performance and identify areas for improvement.
Based on this research, during the year, we introduced We are looking to improve the robustness of this process by new point of sale and price tickets to improve the transparency of introducing automation in the capture of the customer comments.
In addition, we invested in training to develop our We offer all our recommended fitters access to an independent store colleagues to enable them to provide even better service to assessment and have broadened the numbers of disciplines to our customers.
support the expansion of our range into laminate and LVT.
Mystery shopper visits provide a robust measure of our performance, enabling recognition of the best stores and identifying Outlook those where corrective action is needed when we have fallen short Historically, trends in UK housing transactions and mortgage of our expectations.
Starting in late Summer 2012, we increased the approvals have been useful lead indicators of consumer demand in frequency of these visits with every store now getting at least one our sector, bearing a positive correlation with floor covering sales.
Simultaneously, all store colleagues received Both of these indicators have recently shown some early signs of training on selling and service standards and we have increased the improvement, although this is from a very low base and it remains bonus and incentives for those who achieve the required standard.
premature to call a wider recovery in the economy.
As more customers place a premium on their time, we have seen a The success of our self-help activities in improving Group growth in the number of customers who would like to make their performance during the period was particularly encouraging, purchase decision in their own home.
This trend underlines the demonstrating that a focus on factors within our control can increasing importance of the role of the estimator in visiting yield good results.
customers homes, providing a selected range of flooring and While we expect trading conditions to remain challenging, we are measuring room s. We are currently evaluating how we can confident this combination of self-help initiatives will underpin the optimise this resource to provide a market leading service in this positive momentum of the Group.
area and, as a start, have commenced a programme of mystery shopper evaluation of our current performance and increased our training in this area.
Darren Shapland Our cutting and distribution centre at Purfleet provides a market Chief Executive leading cut-to-measure service to our stores, together with short lead times.
This gives our store colleagues the ability to sell with the confidence of meeting our customers expectation of fulfilling their www.
uk 8 8 Business review continued Business objectives and strategies Business objective and strategies The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term sustainable growth in earnings per share and cash flow.
We aim to achieve this through the following strategies: Strategy KPI Definition Modernising the estate Introducing a new format with a more contemporary Number of stores in The number of stores trading at the end of the feel in which it is easier for customers to shop.
new format year in the new format.
Adjusting the portfolio Managing our store base to exploit opportunities which The number of stores trading at the end of Number of stores deliver better overall profitability.
Store gross area, including both selling and Store space 000 sq ft warehouse space space occupied by sub tenants is excluded.
Enhancing our range of floor coverings and services Calculated as this years net sales divided by last Ensuring we continually improve and develop our years net sales for all stores that are at least 12 flooring product ranges to provide consumers with a Like-for-like sales % months old at the beginning of the financial year.
market leading product choice which offers great value, Stores closed during the year are excluded from backed up by excellent customer service.
both years calculated in local currency.
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales Gross Profit % calculated in local currency.
Optimising digital as part of a multi-channel offering Participation of sales Net sales completed online and those in stores originated from online leads that are attributable to online leads.
Extending the reach of Carpetrights brand by developing our online presence.
Developing our bed proposition Developing a bed proposition as a complementary Sales participation of beds Net sales of beds as a proportion of total sales.
revenue stream to our core floor coverings business, offering consumers a wide choice at competitive prices.
Simplifying our processes and a focus on cash management To provide the flexibility to offer competitive prices and improve our service, we have a programme of activity to Operating costs expressed as a percentage of net simplify and reduce the cost of processes, alongside a Costs as % of sales sales calculated in local currency.
focused approach to cash management.
Net debt Value of net debt at year end.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 9 9 Performance Business 2013 2012 2011 2010 An extensive programme of refurbishment has resulted in 186 UK 186 32 n a n a stores now trading in the new format.
Initial stores modernised and format being refined.
6 n a n a n a Europe We have opened 11 stores and closed 23.
UK 478 490 539 561 We have opened three stores and closed three.
Europe 142 142 140 142 The reduction in stores numbers has resulted in a corresponding UK 4,153 4,270 4,514 4,626 decrease in square footage.
Whilst store numbers are static, we have returned 4k sq ft of Europe 1,566 1,570 1,558 1,580 surplus space to landlords.
Against a back drop of a challenging consumer environment, self-help activities have delivered sales growth throughout 2.2% 0.2% 6.0% 4.2% UK the year.
The deterioration of customer confidence in the Netherlands has had a significant impact, partially offset by the success of the Europe 11.0% 1.2% 4.0% 6.2% recovery plan in the Republic of Ireland.
Good progress made on increasing gross profit through a 61.5% 58.9% 62.2% 61.9% UK combination of better sourcing and promotional planning.
Continued focus on better sourcing and promotional planning.
57.2% 57.0% 57.1% 58.5% Europe We have continued to develop and improve our online presence, UK 5.2% 3.9% 2.1% n a focusing activity on our conversion to sales ratio.
The development of the proposition has increased both sales and 6.7% 6.1% 5.1% 3.5% UK mix participation.
We have reduced our store cost base by 0.9% through reduction in the number of stores and successful rent UK 58.7% 58.2% 57.7% 55.0% negotiations.
This was offset by an increase in advertising supporting self-help activities.
Underlying costs decreased by 2.2% reflecting tight management control and a focus on achieving efficiencies.
This was partially offset by the expected increased occupancy costs following the 56.7% 52.5% 53.3% 51.6% Europe sales and leaseback of four Belgian properties at the end of the previous financial year.
The cash generative nature of the business provided the funding for the store modernisation programme and an overall reduction 10.2m 19.1m 65.7m 71.3m Group in net debt.
