Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for the CEO and any future executive director Currently the Company operates with one executive director, the CEO.
This policy applies to the CEO, but would also be applied to any other executive director appointed by the Company.
Purpose and link to Operation and Maximum Performance measures strategy claw-back opportunity Base salary Base salary is set at Base salary is reviewed The Committee has Not applicable.
market competitive annually and fixed for agreed to increase the levels in order to recruit 12 months.
CEOs salary, with effect and retain an executive from 1 January 2014, by director of a suitably 6.3% to 268,000 per high calibre.
Year-on-year, salary The level of pay reflects increases for any a number of factors executive director will not including individual exceed 10% per annum experience, expertise other than in times and pay appropriate to of abnormal inflation the position.
or other exceptional circumstances, in which case the increase will not exceed 20%.
Benefits in Offering marketAn executive director The maximum benefit Not applicable.
kind competitive level of may be eligible to receive that can be offered or benefits-in-kind to a range of benefits paid to an executive help recruit or retain an including some or all of: director is: executive director of a private medical suitably high calibre.
private medical insurance for the insurance provided executive director on a family basis: and their family: death in service death in service insurance of insurance: 4 times base business-related salary : expenses.
business-related Where benefits are expenses.
sourced through third party providers, the expense will reflect the cost of the provision of the benefits from time to time but will be kept under review by the Committee.
Pension Offering marketThe CEO currently The maximum cash Not applicable.
competitive levels receives a cash payment, payment in lieu of of guaranteed cash equal to 10% 8.7% to pension contributions is earnings to help recruit 31{December 2013 of 10% of base salary.
or retain an executive base salary, in lieu of director of a suitably pension contributions.
50 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Operation and Maximum Performance measures strategy claw-back opportunity Discretionary The purpose of the The CEO is eligible to The maximum cash Please see Note 1 on bonus bonus arrangements is receive a discretionary bonus payable to any page 52 for details of the to incentivise the CEO to bonus of up to 20% of executive director is 20% performance measures maximise the Companys basic annual salary.
subject to the CEOs performance and its Committee will review discretionary bonus.
the CEOs performance against the performance criteria to determine the appropriate level of bonus payable in respect of the preceding year.
The Committee may reduce any bonus payment that would otherwise be payable in order to comply with the FCA Remuneration Code.
One-year The purpose of the The CEO is eligible to The maximum cash Please see Note 1 on performance bonus arrangements is receive a bonus of up bonus payable to any page 52 for details of the bonus to incentivise the CEO to to 30% of base salary executive director is 30% performance measures maximise the Companys by reference to the of base salary.
subject to the CEOs performance and its performance of the one-year performance return to shareholders Company over the bonus.
Long-Term The purpose of the The CEO is eligible to The maximum cash Please see Note 1 on Bonus bonus arrangements is receive a bonus of up bonus payable to any page 52 for details of the to incentivise the CEO to to 50% of base salary executive director is 50% performance measures maximise the Companys by reference to the of base salary.
subject to the CEOs performance and its performance of the Long-Term Bonus.
Company over the previous three financial years.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 51
