Chairmans and Chief Executives report share 2012: 13.2 pence, an increase of 9.1%, marking the 39th consecutive year of rising dividends at Witan.
This includes the fourth interim dividend of { 4.5 pence declared in February 2014 and payable on 28 March 2014.
Over the past 5 years, despite the market gloom which initially followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, Witan has achieved an NAV total return of 104%, compared with the 82% returns from our benchmark over this period source: Datastream.
It is encouraging to report a healthy level of outperformance over the longer term, alongside the strong results achieved in 2013.
The returns were driven by widespread Harry Henderson | Chairman outperformance by our investment managers as well as the bene t of employing gearing, during a year of improving investor con dence and rising stock markets.
Although this recovery in con dence is welcome, it is prudent to note that the rise in equity markets has reduced the safety margin previously provided by low valuations.
The forthcoming corporate reporting season will be important in con rming whether the growth that equity investors have anticipated is being realised.
The investment markets in 2013 Equity markets performed very well in 2013, helped by the absence of the crises and persistent disappointments that had characterised the previous two years.
Economic growth was weak during the first part of the year but improved, encouraging equity markets to factor in better times Andrew Bell | Chief Executive in 2014.
In the US, the economy sustained close to 2% growth, improving during the year despite a sharp tightening of scal policy.
The UK avoided a Summary triple-dip recession and the earlier second dip In 2013 Witan delivered a net asset value NAV total was revised away by more uptodate economic return of 29.4%, 8.7% more than our benchmarks gures and began to see stronger growth.
Japans total return of 20.7% and 8.6% more than the 20.8% economy responded positively to the devaluation return on the FTSE AllShare index of UK shares.
of{the previously overvalued yen and even Europe The share price total return was 36.7%, enhanced saw a modest recovery from the recessionary by a narrowing in our share price discount to NAV.
conditions experienced at the start of the year.
The total dividend for the year was 14.4 pence per 04 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information How weve performed The NAV total return of 29.4% outperformed the benchmarks return of 20.7% NAV total return over last five years of 104%, 22% ahead of the benchmark Dividend increased by 9.1% to 14.4p, 7.1% ahead of the rate of in ation The 39th consecutive year of increased dividends The discount narrowed from 10.2% to 6.1% We completed a review of our list of managers, Equities may also have been helped by the first signs of investors turning away from bond markets.
culminating late in the year in the appointment of two global managers Pzena and Tweedy, Browne Yields had fallen so far in 2012 that the penny nally seemed to drop that buying bonds with yields below with a value-based approach.
With hindsight, we should have had more in Europe which outperformed the in ation rate was a recipe for losing money.
Yields rose sharply in the early summer, in response and less in emerging economies which lagged but overall our shareholders enjoyed a successful year.
to hints that the US Federal Reserve the Fed was considering reducing its bond purchases.
It had The Discount, Share Buybacks and Treasury shares previously been buying bonds in order to boost the money supply and encourage economic recovery.
The Companys discount relative to the NAV excluding income, with debt at market value With some signs that this policy was proving successful, in May it signalled a possible change.
This led to progressively narrowed during the year, ending at 6.1%, compared with 10.2% at the end of 2012. a sharp sell-o in bond markets which disturbed equity sentiment for several months and, in the The{average discount for the year was 8.3% 2012: 10.7%.
case{of emerging markets, for the rest of the year.
This narrower discount is to be welcomed as it re ects, Once it became clear that any change in purchases by the Fed was dependent upon continued economic at least in part, increased investor enthusiasm for the Companys active multi-manager approach to improvement and that they were a long way from deciding to raise interest rates, equity markets investment in global equity markets.
During the year, the Company purchased for cancellation a total of resumed progress, amid signs that economic growth{was improving in most regions.
Bonds did 0.4% of the starting shares in issue, at discounts between 8% and 11%, generating a small uplift not{recover, underscoring the point that the rise in yields was due to the overextended starting level, in the NAV per share.
This should also be seen as re ecting the Boards wish to encourage the trend with the Feds policy signal the catalyst not the cause{of the rise.
of a narrowing discount, from which all shareholders would clearly bene t, although it is recognised that Witans strategy during the year was to remain market conditions and investment performance will also have a material in uence.
fully invested into what seemed to be an improving outlook for economic growth and corporate Although the Companys shares currently remain earnings, although our gearing was reduced towards the end of the year.
We increased our exposure to at a discount, the Board is seeking powers at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to buy shares Japan, by appointing a manager Matthews for Far{Eastern equities including Japan, by purchasing into Treasury, for possible reissuance in the event of the shares moving to a premium.
Shares will only be a Japanese fund managed by Polar Capital and by investing in Japanese equity index futures.
We re-sold from Treasury at or at a premium to the net asset value per ordinary share.
took pro ts in areas where we felt that valuations had become less attractive including UK smaller Additionally, the Company is seeking shareholder companies and our holding in the private equity company 3i Group and we allocated additional approval to issue shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that such shares are issued at or at a funds to the managers Lansdowne, Matthews and Heronbridge appointed since autumn 2012. premium to net asset value.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 05 Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued Regulatory changes and Over the past year, the proportion of our assets Investment Management Fees managed without performance fees has increased.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers However, the Company believes that performance Directive AIFMD passed into UK law in July 2013, fees can be appropriate, provided that the resulting after several years of debate in European political total fee is competitive.
Funds a ected have until July 2014 to the fee agreement with each external manager to comply with its requirements.
Although alternative obtain the best deal for shareholders.
Whilst this investment in the UK is generally used to describe will not always produce the lowest costs in absolute exposure to specialist investment strategies such terms, the Company believes it is in shareholders as hedge funds and private equity, the Directive will interests to pay for managers who add value.
Witan also apply to mainstream investment funds, such as takes care to ensure the competitiveness of the fee Witan and other investment trusts, as well as many rates it pays and that where higher fees are incurred open-ended funds.
they are linked to good performance, from which shareholders bene t. Further details are set out in For mainstream funds, such as most investment trusts, the Strateg ic Report.
the safeguards and reporting requirements required by the AIFMD are generally already covered by the The Retail Distribution Review RDR, which Listing Rules for quoted companies or by existing took e ect at the start of 2013, was a positive corporate governance practices and regulations.
development for investment trusts, removing The{principal e ect will be to require investment some of the built-in financial incentives for funds to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund financial advisers to favour open-ended funds over Manager AIFM and for AIFMs to be internally investment trusts.
As a result of levelling the playing organised along prescribed lines and to meet eld the RDR has made the decision over which amended reporting requirements.
fund to buy based more clearly on the merits of the funds themselves, which is a welcome development.
Witan Investment Trust, along with its wholly-owned A more competitive market has resulted, which subsidiary Witan Investment Services WIS is in the should be a bene t for investors.
There are some process of adapting its internal organisation in order signs of a downward trend in investment manager to comply with the new regulation, enabling WIS to fees following the ending of trail commission, act as the AIFM for Witan.
This is not expected to while investment trusts have needed to develop result in material changes to Witans overall sta ng, better communications with financial advisers and although there will be additional costs associated their clients, many of whom have relatively little with legal advice and the requirement to appoint familiarity with investment trusts.
The Company expects to report to Shareholders under the new arrangements from Witan welcomes the changes introduced by the RDR.
With over two-thirds of our shares owned by private individuals or wealth managers and advisors managing Investment Management Fees portfolios on their behalf, the Company is run with a The most signi cant variable costs incurred by the keen awareness of private investors interests.
Witan Company are the investment management fees paid o er s an actively-managed portfolio with a 39-year to our external managers.
The introduction of the record of consecutive dividend rises as well as being Retail Distribution Review RDR, discussed below, diversi ed by manager, geographic region, business has led to questioning of the role of performance sector and at the individual company level.
Further fees, as well as introducing greater transparency over details of our investment approach and results are the structure of fees charged by open-ended funds.
set out in the Strategic Report.
06 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information AGM On a more positive note, it appears increasingly Our Annual General Meeting will be held at Merchant possible that the recovery will become Taylors Hall on Wednesday 30 April 2014 at self-reinforcing, as companies begin to invest 2.30 pm.
Formal notice of the meeting will be more in future growth and take on more sta.
This sent to{shareholders when the Annual Report is would make it easier for consumers to maintain published.
We look forward to the opportunity to spending, while making inroads into their debt, meet you then for the Companys 106th AGM.
and lead to a cyclical improvement in government nances.
Although current in ation expectations Outlook are low, this follows several years of subdued 2014 may be the first year since the financial crisis growth.
Government bond yields have risen from the that economic growth exceeds expectations.
unprecedentedly low levels of a year ago but remain Alongside improving news on the growth outlook well below levels viewed as normal prior to the during 2013, there has been greater calm about financial crisis.
However, it is possible that a year of the handling of issues such as the US budget fide cit surprisingly strong growth will rekindle fears that the and tensions in the Eurozone which had caused exceptional money creation in recent years will lead such volatility in 2011 and 2012.
Accordingly, to rising in ation.
Bonds remain vulnerable both to equity investors have been prepared to pay a higher a cyclical rise in in ation and changed expectations multiple of earnings for shares, perceiving the risks about where in ationary risks lie for the future.
Investors are demanding a lower risk premium Fundamental headwinds remain, in the form of for holding equities, which have shrugged o the pressures on consumer spending, with prices rising rise in bond yields.
This rerating of equities is a faster than wages, and the pressure on governments normal event when economies are improving but, to rein in budget fide cits.
In addition, some emerging unlike rises driven by increased pro ts, it is less markets have encountered adjustment problems repeatable.
So, investors should look to earnings as from the decline in commodity prices and from fears the principal driver of returns in 2014.
If corporate of a tightening in global liquidity as the US Federal earnings grow, while interest rates remain low, Reserve begins to reduce the monetary stimulus equities should o er competitive returns, although applied to the US economy.
The recent relative calm in the need to be selective, to nd the areas of superior Europe could yet be disturbed if the European elections or underestimated growth, appears greater than in May generate signi cant support in Euro currency before.
This is re ected in Witans continued focus states for parties wishing to leave the Euro zone.
on managers who base their portfolios on the merits of particular companies, not their weight Maintaining the momentum of recovery remains a in{a{benchmark index.
Governments need to take action to address budget fide cits and Central Banks to forestall Harry Henderson Andrew Bell future in ation but neither will wish to damage a Chairman Chief Executive recovery which still remains patchy.
Although the 11 March 2014 Authorities have made clear since 2012 that they are committed to promoting economic recovery, without which the foregoing problems become more intractable, policy misjudgements are possible, to which equity markets may prove more vulnerable after the gains of the past two years.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 07
