26 CeO questions and answers to the US Department of Defense in the final few weeks of Q: Given recent problems and the the financial year, and made it necessary for us to bring down uncertainty in Chemrings traditional market expectations.
markets, what changes have you Unpredictable events such as this have meant that we have made to ensure the business is had to adapt our business and have budgeted accordingly for 2014.
It is prudent to assume that the effects of the US more resilient in the future?
defence spending cuts will adversely affect Chemring during the coming year, although I would highlight that the US is still A: We have achieved a great deal this year and made prioritising defence electronics spending and, as a result, we significant progress in realigning the business with the continue to see robust levels of demand for our Sensors & realities of the constrained defence spending environment Electronics products.
that we are operating in, whilst also working hard to ensure that we have the correct management and reporting Q: How well is Chemring placed to structures in place to more effectively drive business development across the Group.
Under the Performance benefit from opportunities in Recovery Programme, we have simplified the Group structure nonNATO markets given the cuts to to become more coherent and integrated.
Operational performance has improved as a result, with new measures put in place to manage capacity, reduce waste, and A: NonNATO markets do represent an opportunity for ensure consistent quality in our products.
In tandem, weve Chemring and already account for over 25% of total Group focused sharply on cash and cost management, with a culture revenues, through sales in more than twenty countries.
of stringent cost awareness now embedded across the Group.
However, they are not an instant remedy to the difficulties in The business is more streamlined and, importantly, resilient our traditional markets: doing business in these geographies to market dynamics: the restructuring, office closures and brings with it various cultural, political and commercial issues reduction in headcount will realise savings of 10.0 million that arent present in the US, UK and Europe.
These operational changes will allow us to be more flexible and respond to changes in demand, whilst putting in place a stable foundation for the future.
Q: When do you envisage a return to more encouraging trends in the Q: How has Chemring been affected defence market?
by the spending cuts in the US caused by sequestration and the A: The defence sector is dependent on so many external, noncyclical factors that this is very difficult to predict.
We shutdown of the US Government at expect US, UK and European markets to remain subdued the beginning of October?
in 2014 and 2015, with visibility continuing to be limited, particularly in the US.
However, we are starting to see signs that the UK defence budget is stabilising, and are seeing A: Spending cuts and uncertainty in the US have key export markets such as the Middle East, India and Brazil undoubtedly created testing conditions for all defence companies and we are no different.
The US Government shutdown in October resulted in the closure of a large number of government departments.
This included the Defense Contract Management Agency, the government agency with responsibility for inspecting and approving products for delivery to the US Department of Defense.
This was extremely frustrating since it impacted on our October 2013 deliveries We have achieved a great deal this year and made significant progress in realigning the business.
Despite the headwinds we are facing in our core markets, I am optimistic about the Group's longterm prospects.
Mark Papworth, Chief Executive Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 27 continue to grow.
Although US defence spending is likely to that.
NonNATO markets are obviously also a priority: we are remain under pressure in the medium term, we are expecting particularly enthusiastic about India, a market where defence a return to topline budget growth there from 2016 onwards.
spending is set to double by 2017.
In the meantime, there is much we can do by way of self The Middle East is another region where we have identified help to ensure Chemrings performance keeps improving, positive trends in defence budgets, with Saudi Arabia regardless of wider market trends that are, frankly, outside of particularly keen to invest in security.
Q: Have you been able to preserve Q: What are your priorities for 2014?
the Groups safety record despite A: We have made good progress in our work to transform integrating businesses and the way in which Chemring operates, and we will continue this reducing costs?
during 2014, ensuring these changes are properly beddedin and our integration programmes are complete.
We will also focus on leveraging business development opportunities that A: We are committed to ensuring the safety of all our the new Group structure engenders, including exploring employees, customers and the general public.
This is nonmilitary applications of our technology and increasing our ingrained in our Code of Business Principles, and the presence in growing markets.
We know that we have work to commitment of all management and staff to upholding them do to restore investor confidence given the issues of recent has remained undimmed by our restructuring programme.
However, the recently completed Strategic Planning Integrating different businesses understandably brings Process has confirmed the Groups marketleading positions challenges, but the creation of a safe working environment and the strength of its technology in a number of areas.
has been a priority in every instance.
Weve invested It also highlighted new defence and adjacent nondefence substantially in robotics and automated processes to protect opportunities that the Group has yet to exploit.
We have great employees working with volatile materials as part of a people and technologies at Chemring, and there is much to aim continual programme of improvements.
Q: How have you found your first full Q: What is your longer term strategy year in the job?
A: Its fair to say that things have been challenging but that A: In November, we announced that we had concluded that is no less than I expected, given the welldocumented issues there are a number of businesses within the Group which that Chemring was facing when I arrived.
The backdrop of do not form part of the longerterm business strategy, and constrained defence spending in the US is clearly affecting all that we had started a process to divest of certain of these defence companies at the moment but I have to admit that I businesses.
Our strategy is to reposition the portfolio for was surprised by just how much room for improvement there future growth through technology exploitation.
We will focus was in terms of Chemrings operational capabilities.
This gives on our core competencies, directing investment into those us a great opportunity to turn the business around and we lines of business which have technologies, products and have already started to see some tangible benefits from the market positioning that provide opportunities to achieve actions we have undertaken.
Chemring has some excellent sustainable high margins and revenue growth.
businesses with strong positions in markets that hold significant potential for the Group so, despite the headwinds we are facing in our core markets, I am optimistic about the Q: In which geographies, markets Groups longterm prospects.
and products do you see the best opportunities?
A: Weve already identified opportunities to move beyond our traditional markets through the Performance Recovery Programme, and the Strategic Planning Process takes this further.
As things stand, we think there is good potential to expand sales of our Sensors & Electronics products outside the US and the UK.
These products are subject to preferential spend in many countries and we have wellestablished, marketleading technologies that will help us capitalise on www.
