ovERvIEW: CHIEF EXECuTIvES STATEmEnT chIef executIves statement WE HAvE HAd An ACTIvE And SuCCESSFuL YEAR, oPERATIonALLY And In TERmS oF ouR InvESTmEnT And FInAnCIng ACTIvITIES.
We have had an active and successful year, At the property level, we generated total returns offices had another good year reflecting our operationally and in terms of our investment of 6.3%, significantly outperforming the IPd focus on London, our early call to invest in and financing activities.
The combination benchmark on total and capital returns by development and our shift towards the better of our share placing and the sale of one of 310 bps and 360 bps respectively.
once again performing West End market.
In a market where our major City offices, Ropemaker Place, it was our actions and portfolio mix which drove occupier demand has been highly selective, increases our ability both to take advantage our performance.
our committed development we have successfully tapped into the pockets of a pipeline of attractive investment programme was a strong contributor of demand in both the City and the West End.
opportunities while completing our current generating a profit of 147 million in the year We signed 778,000 sq ft of investment lettings development programme.
We have already which, combined with asset management, more and lease extensions and have a further 34,000 made good progress investing our placing than offset the impact of slight yield expansion sq ft of deals under offer.
our developments are capacity, investing 266 million in London in uK Retail and further falls in the valuation progressing well.
Since 1 April 2012, we have focused properties including ealing Broadway of the PREF assets in Europe.
completed two projects and agreed or put shopping Centre.
We were also delighted under offer 200,000 sq ft of prelets.
This to sign a new long-term joint venture with Across our portfolio, we signed 2 million sq ft includes a minimum of 95,000 sq ft to Amlin at norges Bank Investment management of lettings and lease extensions with investment The Leadenhall Building which will bring the norges, one the worlds largest sovereign lettings signed on average 7.6% ahead of ERv percentage of the offices programme prelet wealth managers, at meadowhall, which with good levels of activity in both Retail and under offer to 61%, up from 51% a year ago.
provides a strong platform for the offices despite slower occupational markets.
management and growth of our largest occupancy in the uK was 97.1% at the end of the our gross investment activity during the year retail asset.
year, 70 bps lower on a likeforlike basis as measured by our share of acquisitions, sales including adjusting for the sale of Ropemaker and investment in development was 1.6 billion underlying profits and earnings per share for the and the completion of 199 Bishopsgate which so we have been highly active.
our continued year were ahead by 1.9% and 2.0% respectively is now included in the investment portfolio.
process of recycling capital into higher growth despite the significant level of recycling during opportunities means our uK portfolio is now the year.
our net asset value is up to 596 pence In uK Retail, the twin challenges of constrained 55% in London and the South East.
We now have more of our office portfolio in the West per share, slightly ahead of last year with consumer spending and the growth in online End than the City which compares to a 35:65 performance in the year offsetting the dilutive sales meant that conditions remained difficult.
We sold 795 million impact of the placing.
In line with previous That said, although there was an increase of properties at an average net initial yield announcements, the Board is proposing a final in the number of administrations in the second of 5.3% and made 544 million of acquisitions dividend of 6.6 pence, bringing the dividend for half, the stronger retailers continue to trade in our core sectors at a net initial yield of the full year to 26.4 pence, an increase of 1.1% relatively well and are still expanding.
In this 6.3% on income generating assets.
We invested contributing to a total accounting return of 4.6%.
environment, it is even more important to have 324 million of capital into our highly attractive For the coming year, the dividend will be not the right assets, the right approach and an committed development programme on an less than 6.6 pence per quarter pending further ability to adapt in a fast changing environment.
anticipated yield on cost of 8.8%.
investment of the placing proceeds.
We were pleased recently to announce a longterm partnership agreement with BT our access to low cost financing is an important While the uK property market overall to extend free wifi across our uK shopping competitive advantage, reducing our cost remained tough, there was real divergence centres and to work with them to find an of capital and allowing us to exploit attractive in performance which played to our strengths outdoor solution for shopping parks.
This will investment opportunities both in developments and favoured our portfolio.
Higherquality allow us to expand our digital platform and and standing investments.
Since the beginning properties continued to be resilient and London exploit technological innovations.
of the year, we have raised 1.7 billion British remained relatively strong across all sectors Land share 1.5 billion of new finance which offices, retail and residential with strong levels our retail portfolio outperformed both the includes our 493 million equity placing, of interest from international investors.
despite All Retail and the All Property benchmark total a 400 million convertible bond with a coupon a tough occupational market in retail, there was returns by 170 bps and 80 bps respectively.
of 1.5% and a new 290 million revolving an improvement in investment sentiment for our portfolio rental value was up and lettings credit facility which was agreed last week.
more prime shopping centres and retail parks overall continued to be agreed ahead of ERv in the second half.
in a market where rental values continued to fall.
our consistent trend of outperformance our total returns have outperformed by 200 bps per annum over the past four years reflects how we have structured our portfolio to ensure it remains relevant and attractive to todays retailers in a rapidly changing market.
We have achieved this by investing in our existing estate through development and by asset recycling.
8 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review OVERVIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ovERvIEW: CHIEF EXECuTIvES STATEmEnT We will continue to create growth ourselves, through asset management, development and acquisitions and by ensuring we are in the right parts of the market.
CHRIs gRIgg Chief executive 1.6bn 795m gross investment activity disposals at a net initial yield of 5.3% 544m Acquisitions at a net initial yield of 6.3% directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 ovERvIEW: CHIEF EXECuTIvES STATEmEnT chIef executIves statement contInued LookIng FoRWARd Theres a lot of infrastructure activity happening best assets to ensure they are configured our results show we are executing successfully across London: we are very focused on the properly physically, digitally or in terms of against a clear strategy delivering good importance of transport links and Crossrail leisure provision.
We will also increase the rate results in todays tough markets at the same is a potential gamechanger.
of recycling, selling assets which do not meet time as increasing the growth potential of the our criteria and reinvesting in assets which do.
business through our investment activity.
We have got real competitive advantage in mixeduse schemes and big estates but also our purchase this year of Ealing Shopping Although we continue to be cautious about in revitalising areas where development and Centre, Eden Walk and buying out our joint the overall economic environment, we believe placemaking can make a real difference.
venture partner at Surrey Quays are in line with our core business will be resilient as we benefit Residential is a critical component of mixed this strategy and also increase our exposure from our focus on the better performing use schemes and we will continue to build to London and the South East.
markets in London and the South East and on our skills in this area.
on highquality retail around the uK.
We will look for similar affluent and up and development has served us well.
We continue coming areas with significant catchments, In addition, ongoing recycling, notably our to see opportunities to generate doubledigit good infrastructure and asset management recent sale of Ropemaker Place, along with our returns and with the current programme and development potential.
successful equity placing increases our capacity nearing completion we are replenishing our to take advantage of a pipeline of attractive pipeline with the aim of maintaining our So we are well placed.
We have a strong and investment opportunities while completing our exposure at around current levels, but not growing London offices business, a retail current development programme and staying exceeding 15% of our gross assets.
The Clarges portfolio focused on the places retailers want comfortably within our stated gearing range.
Estate is part of that process.
We have also to be and the capacity to grow our business recently been selected by The Corporation of further.
We remain confident in our ability We have already made good progress investing London as their preferred development partner to generate superior growth and returns our placing capacity and we are pleased with for the Shoreditch Estate, a twoacre site going forward.
progress on current opportunities under review.
on the fringes of the City close to Broadgate.
We are focusing our investment activity on the In Retail, we firmly believe the physical shopping areas we believe will perform best mainly environment will remain at the heart of an London and the South East and on the integrated offer although digital services are activities which create best value and which clearly becoming an essential part of the play to our strengths.
So, it will be even more Chris grigg important in todays rapidly changing markets Chief Executive So, within London we will look to continue the we have the right approach as well as the right move of our offices business to Londons West assets.
We will continue to focus on locally End but will also look at up and coming areas.
dominant assets and will invest more in our deLIveRIng FuTuRe gRoWTH FoCus on London And THe souTH eAsT 2 Continue to move West EALING BROADWAY ALDGATE PLACE Transport interchanges 1 3 London residential THE CLARGES ESTATE up and coming areas Estates and mixeduse schemes HARMSWORTH QUAYS SURREY QUAYS development KEY British Land asset concentration 1 Broadgate 2 Regents Place 3 Portman Village EDEN WALK SHOPPING CENTRE Recent acquisitions Crossrail station 10 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review OVERVIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ovERvIEW: CHIEF EXECuTIvES STATEmEnT We are focusing investment activity on the areas we believe will perform best Q&A mainly London and the South East and the growIng brItIsh land activities that create best value, such as development.
Q: What do you want British Land CHRIs gRIgg to look like in three years time?
Chief executive A: Weve done a lot of hard work to strengthen the business in recent years.
our portfolio is now better positioned, our finances stronger and the placing gives us significant capacity to continue to grow.
In three years time, we would like to see Weve been British Land as part of a larger and more vibrant REIT sector which has proved working its worth as the property investment of choice, not only for professional but hard to also private investors.
reposition Q: What are the biggest opportunities you see over the next year?
the business A: Without a doubt, it is to use the capacity provided by the placing to capitalise on for growth.
the increased flow of attractive investment opportunities we are seeing.
many of CHRIs gRIgg these are in our core areas, particularly Chief executive in London and the South East where we want to expand.
These are deals where we can exploit our scale and cost of capital, our ability to move quickly and our operational expertise.
Q: What are the biggest challenges?
A: one of our biggest challenges is to keep at the forefront of the changes taking place in retail so that our portfolio remains as relevant to our occupiers and their customers as it is today.
That means making sure our schemes reflect the way people shop: introducing more food and leisure as well as embracing digital technology are all part of making that happen.
See Full year results 2013 video www.
com investors  results 2013 directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
