CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CREATING RETAIL DESTINATIONS 2013 was something of a landmark year our first as a specialised retail REIT.
Over the course of the year we have witnessed the start of economic recovery and seen growth returning to our core markets of the UK and France.
This has driven increased demand for retail floorspace, especially in those locations where physical retail still adds value prime shopping centres which cater to the customer demand for experience, convenient retail parks and premium designer outlets.
We have three strategic priorities which guide our capital deployment, 1 operating model and financial management: 3 2 1 CREATING HIGH-QUALITY PROPERTY 2 MAXIMISING INCOME Read about our 3 business model to CAPITAL STRENGTH understand how we create winning We achieve these objectives by creating compelling retail venues in successful retail destinations locations with services and experiences tailored to the local demographic.
1 CREATING HIGH-QUALITY PROPERTY We continue to invest to upgrade our venues through: In Beauvais, 90km North of Paris, we have started construction 2 on the 24,000m Le Jeu fide Paume scheme.
Carrefour, Le Furet development creating vibrant modern retail destinations du Nord, H&M, Sephora and Foot Locker are among the retailers extensions meeting increased demand from tenants and that have committed to the project.
consumers at successful retail locations We have also made significant advances with three major refurbishment refreshing or repositioning existing assets UK developments.
In Leeds, we have commenced work at to increase their appeal Victoria Gate, the 135 million John Lewis anchored retail investment recycling capital from mature assets into development which adjoins Victoria Quarter.
In Croydon, properties offering the potential to generate higher returns London, our joint venture with Westfield continues to make good progress and in November we achieved planning Development approval for the retail-led scheme.
At Brent Cross, London we 2 We will open Les Terrasses du Port, our 61,000m shopping received approval for a planning amendment in early 2014 and leisure destination in Marseille, in May.
The centre which moving us closer to start on site for this exciting scheme.
is anchored by Printemps and comprises 190 shops, has an impressive mix of brands and a restaurant terrace with stunning views over the Mediterranean Sea.
6 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Extensions 2 We are also making good progress with extensions and redevelopments across the retail parks portfolio.
At MAXIMISING INCOME Cramlington, following our successful completion of the 2 In 2013 we signed 364 leases in respect of 154,000m, catering and leisure scheme in the summer, the extension at levels above both the estimated rental values ERV, and to Manor Walks Retail Park was completed in September.
Like-for-like net rental income for the Abbotsinch Retail Park, Paisley, which was acquired as part year was 2.1% higher than in 2012.
We maintained high of the Junction Fund transaction, works have begun on the occupancy of 97.7%, an excellent platform from which to extension project.
In April, we secured planning approval for drive rental income higher in the year ahead.
the redevelopment of Elliotts Field Retail Park, Rugby, which 2 The completion of a number of on-site developments will will be anchored by a 5,500m Debenhams store.
add a further 30 million per annum to our income from 2014.
Refurbishment Strong retailer relationships We continue to attract quality leisure and catering operators We continue to bring new retailers and new formats to ensure to our venues which add vibrancy, increase dwell times and our portfolio remains fresh and vibrant.
In 2013, over 200 retail ensure we meet consumers demands for a special experience.
fascias were changed representing about 7% of our total At WestQuay, our recently re-launched Dining at WestQuay portfolio.
We have used our strong retailer relationships to was awarded the highest 3-star rating by the Sustainable bring exciting brands such as Printemps, Hugo Boss, and Restaurant Association and, in July, we received planning Ted Baker to Les Terrasses du Port.
approval for a leisure-led extension to this successful venue.
Works are progressing on schedule at the leisure extension Consumer insight and digital expertise at Silverburn, Glasgow.
The scheme will be anchored by a Multi-channel retailing and digital marketing continue to grow 14-screen Cineworld multiplex cinema, and include new in importance as consumers increasingly use mobile devices restaurants such as Zizzi and Pizza Express.
to research, inform and make purchases.
During 2013 we In France, the program of renovation at our French centres completed the roll-out of free wi-fi to all UK centres and continues on schedule.
In September, we completed successfully trialled our integrated mobile app KUDOS at refurbishment works at: Italie Deux, Paris: Grand Maine, Highcross and The Oracle.
Angers: and Place Des Halles, Strasbourg.
The refurbishment and extension of OParinor, Paris to create a new cinema and 3 a significantly enhanced catering offer, will complete in 2014.
CAPITAL STRENGTH Investment Operating within a prudent and flexible capital structure In May, we acquired an additional stake in Bullring, taking our remains a key priority for the Company.
Throughout 2013 we ownership of this iconic retail venue to 50%.
Developed by have maintained our strong financial position and, as at the Hammerson in 2003, Bullring remains one of Europes most year-end, LTV and gearing remained low at 38% and 56% successful retail venues.
It is anchored by Selfridges and respectively.
Throughout the year we actively managed our Debenhams, is over 99% let and has welcomed over liabilities to ensure that we reduce borrowing costs whilst 400 million shoppers since its opening.
In May, we repurchased During 2013, we continued to increase our investment in 28 million of our high coupon 2013 sterling bonds, and Value Retail Europes premier owner of luxury outlet Villages.
in November we raised 277 million through a US Private In June and July we invested a further 78 million, acquiring Placement.
These activities helped to reduce our average for the first time a direct investment in La Valle Village Paris interest cost to 4.8% and we finished the period with and increasing our investments in Las Rozas Village Madrid substantial liquidity of 716 million.
and La Roca Village Barcelona.
In 2012 we relocated our Paris head office and intend to In February 2014 we acquired the Saint Sbastien shopping do the same in London in 2015, with substantial cost savings.
centre in Nancy, France, which provides the opportunity to We remain committed to improving our cost:income ratio, create value through a number of asset management initiatives.
and will implement further efficiency measures in 2014.
We continue to raise the quality of the portfolio by recycling SUMMARY capital out of mature assets, disposing of Queensgate, In summary, 2013 has brought the first signs of economic Peterborough, at the end of the year.
We have seen improvements in both Focus on sustainability our customers and consumers confidence that is generating Sustainability remains very much at the heart of our business.
increased demand for our assets.
Our KPIs, which are set out in We maintained our focus on this area during the downturn detail on page 13, indicate that we are delivering against our and were rewarded with operational cost savings and strategic objectives.
Our portfolio of modern, well-located reputational benefits.
Examples of how sustainability is prime shopping centres, convenient retail parks and luxury delivering added value for the different areas of the business outlet Villages continues to attract successful retailers and I are detailed throughout the report.
remain upbeat about the future for the Company.
