18 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review Introduction Overview of 2013 activity Intu has moved forward markedly in the year with a high level of activity and dynamism.
The cultural change we instigated as part of our rebranding has surpassed our expectations, we have reached significant milestones within our project pipeline and we have much improved our financial position with new debt and equity.
We end the year better positioned to create long-term value through the opportunities afforded by the changing retail landscape.
Significantly, we have: secured 30 planning consents, including for major extensions at intu Watford andintu Lakeside.
ft. 0.7 billion of the 2.6 million sq.
ft. pipeline is now consented, over half of which is catering and leisure reached agreement with Nottingham City Council setting the way forward for David Fischel intuVictoria Centre and intu Broadmarsh Chief Executive made strategic acquisitions in the UK, including filling a gap in our national 28 February 2014 coverage at Milton Keynes made a strategic acquisition with a strong partner in Spain, a market with considerable opportunity refinanced most of the debt falling due in the next three years, reducing the cost ofdebt and achieving a duration appropriate for our long-term income stream Improved debt maturity prole m 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2024 2029 2023 2028 Repayment prole as at 31 December 2012 Repayment prole as at 31 December 2013 trained our operational and head office staff in World Class Service, initiating aprocess of cultural change to embed our values in every aspect of operations launched free Wi-Fi at more than half of our centres with the remainder imminent, and derived operational and infrastructural efficiencies from the fibreoptic platform rolled out our new brand, demonstrating physical change and new experiences to each visitor and the scale of our operations to retailers Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 19 Strategic report Business model and strategy Asset valuation A number of the positive actions which we have taken in the year have had theimpact 15 1 14 of reducing some of the 2013 headline financial measures.
Total property return was a 13 12 11 healthy 7.3 per cent supported by robust valuations particularly for our super-regional 10 centres.
Net asset value per share reduced by three per cent largely as a result of 9 costs associated with reorganising our debtstructure and the equity raising for the 8 7.
6bn 2 acquisition of Midsummer Place in whichmany of our major shareholders participated.
7 Total financial return was one per cent.
6 5 Good operational progress in the form of lettings was disappointingly masked in terms 3 4 of earnings by the cost of tenants who entered administration in late 2012 and in early Super-regional centres 65% 2013.
We continue to take a robust line to ensure that we achieve the right rental level 1 intu Tra ord Centre for our prime product and we are prepared to withstand some short-term reduction in 1,900million 2 intu Lakeside 1,125million earnings as we continue to improve our centres.
3 intu Metrocentre 885million While we would of course prefer to see unbroken positive trends, we remain confident 4 intu Braehead 602million 5 Cribbs Causeway, Bristol of our strategy for the mediumand long-term performance of our assets and that 242million the underlying business remains on course.
Town and city centres 35% Outlook and priorities for 2014 6 Manchester Arndale 399million We are encouraged that the UK economy has continued to recover during 2013.
7 St Davids, Cardi 272million While household purchasing power remains stretched, there are signs of returning 8 intu Eldon Square consumer confidence and increasing appetite for lending.
Well configured space in 250million 9 intu Watford 323million the best shopping centres such as Intus will become increasingly important as retail 10 intu Victoria Centre businesses adapt to the challenge of changing shopping habits.
306million 11 Midsummer Place 251million Looking forward to 2014, the relative stability of the second half of 2013 has enabled 12 intu Chapeleld 246million us to prepare for upcoming developments by holding space vacant or on flexible 13 intu Uxbridge 214million terms to enable a timely start to a number of our projects.
Altogether 2.4 per cent of 14 intu Potteries 163million 15 intu Bromley 159million ERV is now held for development, of which around a third is let on short-term leases for flexibility.
Additionally the benefit of 2013s new lettings will be more than offset by the short-term impact of lease expiry concentrations and the residual impact of 2013 tenant failures.
We expect the combination of these factors to create a further year of reducing like-for-like net rental income.
However, we are confident that our development projects, tenant mix repositioning and effective asset management approach will significantly enhance the long-term total return ofthe business.
We will continue to focus in 2014 on four main goals which, we believe, will result in strong total returns over the medium term: optimising the performance of our existing assets, through active asset management driving forward our 1.2 billion investment programme and, where appropriate opportunities arise, considering strategic acquisitions continuing to improve our financial flexibility through debt and capital recycling from existing assets including disposals and possible introduction of partners reinforcing our brand and digital presence including property management innovation to drive demand for our assets and create broader commercial value Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 20 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Market review Investment market The value of UK shopping centre investment transactions in 2013 was well above the previous few years with strong demand pushing yields down.
Investor appetite has spread well beyond London with good volumes in several regions.
As well as international investors continuing to target the most prime assets, the improvement inmacro indicators see below has stimulated increased interest in strong secondary assets.
Demand from cashfunded investors has been supplemented by a significant improvement during 2013 in the range and depth of debt funding sources to the sector.
These have extended to financing assets outside the most prime and should continue to underpin values.
Shopping centre development across the UK remains at a fraction of the level of the mid 2000s, providing limited new supply.
Completions in 2013 and the pipeline for 2014 and beyond are focused on extensions and reconfigurations of existing centres.
UK retail construction pipeline PMA estimate million sq.
ft. 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1986 1990 1994 1998 2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 Source: PMA Complete Under construction Planned proposed Occupier market The UK economy showed signs of improvement in 2013, with four quarters of GDP growth and a sharp rebound in consumer confidence towards the end of the year.
This has yet to be reflected in any significant increase in UK average household disposable income with the Asda benchmark index showing a rise of 1.8 per cent overthe year.
Whilst inflation has declined and employment has risen, year-on-year wage growth has fallen to below one per cent.
Despite the continued constraints on household finances, consumer spending has been increasing with higher like-for-like non-food retail sales reported by the BRC throughout 2013, aggregating to around two per cent for the year.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 21 Strategic report Business model and strategy Retailer administrations continued at an elevated level in the early part of 2013 according to the Centre for Retail Research but reduced in the middle of the year to end slightly lower overall than the high levels of 2012.
This trend was reflected in Intus portfolio with no significant tenant failures in the second half of 2013 after four per cent of the rent roll entered administration in the first half.
The chart below shows a marginal pick up in vacancy across retail property categories in 2013, with notably lower levels in larger centres such as Intus.
Vacancy rate, UK retail property by class % of units 20 15 10 5 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Big shopping centres Source: PMA Smaller prime shopping centres Town centres Secondary shopping centres Changing UK retail Our research shows that, with an increasing number of ways to buy products, customers come to shopping centres for much more than just purchasing.
As the boundaries between shopping, entertainment and dining becomeblurred, our visitors want a place to socialise, to be entertained and to discover something new.
The top shopping centres, such as Intus, are better able to offer this range and so it is no surprise that they are attracting an increasing share of national retail footfall and achieving a lower level of vacancy than small centres.
With 12 per cent of retail sales conducted online in the last quarter 2013 according to estimates, digital technology is an inseparable part of everyday life.
Shopping now is browsing, trying, researching, asking opinions through social media, sharing ideas and transacting on and offline, using digital tools to make life easier.
In that context, many successful retailers have developed effective on and offline capabilities and are continuing to review their store networks to best suit multichannel strategies.
Physical retailing space in the key destination centres is a core part of many business models, with continued space reductions in less core locations.
For example Next, which has successfully converted its Directory business to a strong online offer, has made flagship investments at four Intu centres in 2013 and now occupies 650,000 sq.
ft. across the portfolio, a third more than in 2008.
co. uk 22 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Focusing on customer experience, with technology as an enabler With our rebranding in 2013, we have oriented every aspect of our asset management, operational delivery and property development around the customer experience in our centres.
Examples of initiatives implemented during the year and in particular the increasing importance of providing catering and leisure options are discussed in Asset management below.
Our digital strategy is to help customers to get more from our shopping centres, when they are physically there and when they are not.
Digital connectivity is not a separate process, but an integral part of the physical experience, increasing convenience and widening our reach.
Our digital initiatives are focused on using technology for example to help with practicalities and with sharing ideas.
We chose to invest in a high quality fibre-optic backbone and Wi-Fi network infrastructure, owned rather than out-sourced, seeing it as the heart of our digital strategy.
This means we manage the entire customer journey and the data which results from it.
With an encouraging 60 per cent of our Wi-Fi registrants opting in to receive marketing information, the potential to make targeted offers is significant, with scope for development of a powerful single customer view across multiple interactions with Intu.
Our ownership of the platform enables us to sell services to our commercial partners including both use of the infrastructure and marketing opportunities.
We are also benefiting from operating synergies and cost savings as elements of building management, lighting and security systems migrate onto the platform.
Other initiatives include a transactional website launched during 2013 offering high quality, editorial content which enables us to engage with customers both away from our shopping centres and within them.
Its magazine-style content inspires customers and encourages sharing through social media.
This offers our retailers around the clock interaction with our customers and vice versa, with the added convenience of click and collect of multiple retailer purchases at one point in our centres.
We have also trialled a customer lounge and intend to roll out a concierge-style concept to other centres during 2014.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 23 Strategic report Business model and strategy Investment property Delivering on our strategy valuation surplus 2013 performance: 1.8% 2012: 0.6% Valuation The aggregate like-for-like market value of our investment property increased by Total property return 1.8 per cent in the year, twice that of the IPD monthly index up 0.8 per cent, with consistent progress in each of the two halves.
This contributed to a robust total property return of 7.3 per cent see Operating metrics below.
7.3% 2012: 6.0% Comparison of Intu yield and 10 year gilt yield % 10.0 8.0 6.74% 5.79% 6.0 4.51% 4.0 3.02% 2.0 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Intu weighted average nominal equivalent yield IPD Monthly Index Retail BBB GBP 10 Year Corporate Bond Index yield Gilts 10 years The weighted average nominal equivalent yield at 31 December 2013 was 5.79 per cent, a reduction of 15 basis points in the year, reflecting market conditions and our ongoing asset management initiatives maintaining the prime and resilient nature of our assets.
Based on the gross portfolio value, the net initial yield topped up for the expiry of rent free periods was 4.97 per cent.
The like-for-like change in ERV also continued to out-perform the benchmark with a further marginal increase in the second half of 2013.
Full Second First year half half 2013 2013 2013 Group revaluation surplus like-for-like 1.8% 0.8% 1.0% IPD capital growth 0.8% 2.0% 1.1% Group weighted average nominal equivalent yield 5.79% 5.79% 5.85% Like-for-like change in Group nominal equivalent yield 15bp 6bp 9bp IPD equivalent yield shift 17bp 18bp 1bp Group topped up initial yield EPRA 4.97% 4.97% 5.10% Group change in like-for-like ERV 0.3% 0.1% 0.2% IPD change in rental value index 1.3% 0.5% 0.8% IPD monthly index, retail.
co. uk 24 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued In general the larger super-regional and major city centres continue to out-perform with stronger valuation surpluses, with slight reductions in some centres where improvement expenditure has not yet been fully reflected in prospective ERVs.
Notable changes in individual valuations include: intu Trafford Centre 94 million H2 47 million, 5.3 per cent has benefited from an increase in headline rent and the satisfactory conclusion of 2013 lease expiries and rent reviews as well as market yield improvement for superregional centres intu Lakeside 26 million H2 5 million, 2.4 per cent has benefited from an earnings-enhancing food court redevelopment as well as market improvement in yield for super-regional centres intu Eldon Square 7 million H2 3 million, 2.9 per cent has been affected by refurbishment expenditure, the potential effect of which has not yet been reflected in the valuation ERV St Davids, Cardiff 16 million H2 7 million, 6.4 per cent has benefited from continued growth of income in the 2009 extension as well as market yield improvement for top centres in major cities intu Bromley 7 million H2 2 million, 4.1 per cent has not yet benefited from the valuation impact of committed refurbishment expenditure Manchester Arndale 15 million H2 7 million, 3.7 per cent continues to benefit from national evidence of stronger yields for top centres in major cities intu Potteries 6 million H2 2 million, 3.6 per cent has been affected by some pockets of ERV reduction as we conclude relettings following the 2013 lease expiries Cribbs Causeway 7 million H2 6 million, 2.8 per cent has benefited from the satisfactory conclusion of 2013 lease expiries, increasing security of income and improving tenant mix, as well as market yield improvement for superregional centres Operating metrics 2013 2012 Occupancy 95% 96% of which, occupied by tenants trading in administration 1% 3% Leasing activity number, new rent 201, 42m 169, 44m new rent relative to previous passing rent 4% above 7% above Like-for-like change in net rental income 1.9% 2.7% Total property return 7.3% 6.0% Footfall 2% 1% Retailer sales like-for-like centres 0% 1% Rent to estimated sales exc.
anchors and major space users 13.5% 13.9% excluding impact of trading interruptions during major tenant relocations at intu Braehead and Cribbs Causeway.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 25 Strategic report Business model and strategy Occupancy remains firm at the 95 per cent level at which we have operated for most of the year and compares favourably to PMAs vacancy measure for big shopping centres of tenper cent.
In our view the rent foregone and direct cost of an extra one per cent vacancy in the year is a worthwhile investment in the ongoing quality, tenant mix and, ultimately, value of our prime assets.
We agreed 201 new long-term leases in the year, amounting to 42 million new annual rent, at an average of four per cent above previous passing rent like-forlike units and, excluding strategic deals reported in the third quarter, in line with valuers assumptions.
Significant signings in the year include new lettings addressing lease expiry concentrations at intu Trafford Centre, Cribbs Causeway and intu Potteries, also some important repositioning ahead ofintu Braeheads 2014 expiry concentration see below 12 retailers including Urban Outfitters, Adidas, Sealife and The White Company took a unit in an Intu centre for the first time, with a substantial number of others opening further stores in additional centres 139 new shops opened or refitted in our centres in 2013, around five per cent of our 2,600 units.
Tenants have invested around 70 million in these stores, a significant demonstration of their commitment to our centres.
As well as major flagship store investments across the portfolio, Next chose intu Watford to launch their new concept Lipsy shopfit in December Like-for-like net rental income was 1.9 per cent lower in 2013 than 2012, with a narrower 0.9 per cent decrease in the second half.
Tenants failing in late 2012 and early 2013 accounted for around 10 million of rent foregone and direct costs.
Income interruption around concentrations of lease expiries also temporarily affected earnings from two centres.
The combination of capital value preservation and broadly stable income demonstrates the strength of Intus assets over the medium term.
The number of visitors to our centres has reduced marginally year-on-year in 2013, the two per cent decline representing a significant out-performance of Experians measure of UK national retail footfall which declined four per cent.
co. uk 26 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Estimated retailer sales in our centres were broadly flat in the year excluding the impact of trading interruptions during major tenant relocations at intu Braehead and Cribbs Causeway.
The ratio of rents to estimated sales for standard units marginally reduced in the year to 13.5 per cent, continuing the trend of the previousfew years.
The lease expiry cycle, while bringing the risk of some short-term earnings impact, is a good opportunity to effect significant repositioning.
In the last two years 21per cent of rent has been subject to expiry of which all but four per cent has been dealt with.
In 2013, for example, six new retailers were introduced to intu Potteries and more than one in five stores were refitted.
This gave a significant boost to the overall feel of the centre although the rental tone has settled at the lower level which was anticipated in the December 2012 valuation.
At intu Braehead we created major new stores for Next and JD Sports, providing new anchors for areas of the centre and establishing improvement and change ahead of a concentration of expiries in 2014.
The chart below illustrates that the pattern of lease expiries across the portfolio is broadly even, with a weighted average unexpired term of 7.5 years 31 December 2012 7.8 years.
Excludes four per cent in respect of leases which have expired of which around three-quarters are in negotiation or solicitors hands.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 27 Strategic report Business model and strategy Asset management We aim to create the best places to eat, drink, shop and socialise.
We manage our centres to offer a mix of attractions to encourage our visitors to come from further, for longer, more often.
This reinforces their position as must have locations for retailers.
Experience As well as offering an evolving mix of the retail brands our customers want to see, with best flagship shopfits, and the catering and leisure options to encourage them to stay into the evening, we are focused on improving their overall experience in our centres including events, quality of service and environment: we have changed the look and feel of all our directly-managed centres with the roll out of the new brands refreshing style in the form of physical signage and new uniforms.
More comprehensive refurbishments are also underway or imminent at a number of centres see Looking to the future below with the in-sourcing of facilities management and World Class Service training, we have aligned our teams with our nationwide brand aspirations and values, allowing us to take more control of the customer experience.
Customer rating measured by our first Institute of Customer Services survey exceeded the retail sector benchmark our fibre-optic infrastructure now provides high quality Wi-Fi in nine centres with the final four to follow in early 2014 see Market review above as the only nationwide branded network of prime UK shopping centres, we can now entertain customers with quality events which offer a unique proposition to commercial partners.
During the year we hosted significant footfall-driving events including a weekend-long nationwide performing arts expo, student nights attracting over 100,000 and generating over 2 million incremental sales, over 125,000 watching our Hello magazine-branded fashion shows, around 40,000 minutes of Cosmo-sponsored style advice plus the nationwide tour of a flagship arts programme, Elephant Parade with the single name for the Company and our centres, media coverage of events and news has roughly doubled Catering and leisure Across the country, we have well over 400 catering and leisure outlets, which contribute 11 per cent of our rent roll.
Our super-regional centres, which have always been day out destinations, have a notably higher proportion than most of those in city centres.
Our research shows that those who eat or drink at one of our centres stay much longerand spend significantly more than just the extra dining expense.
In 2013, around a third of visitors chose to dine and the amount on average they spent on catering rose by nine per cent.
co. uk 28 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Our strategy for providing catering is not just about the volume of outlets to encourage dwell and dine, we are focused on increasing the diversity of the offer.
We offer a wider than ever range of operators with specific spend and dwell niches, regional as well as national and international operators.
We have analysed gaps in each of our centres and are working on providing new clusters and zones to fill them.
Our pipeline of investments see below will almost double the amount of dining and recreation space from 1.9 million sq.
ft. with the vast majority having obtained planning consent.
At intu Lakeside, for example, our catering strategy is to close the current gap between the traditional fast food offer of the food court and the casual dining Boardwalk with its roughly three times longer dwell time and spend.
We are introducing a range of new operators such as Wasabi, Rhythm Kitchen, Gino DAcampo and Five Guys in a contemporary environment.
Also the fourth champagne bar for our portfolio opened successfully at intu Lakeside just before Christmas.
UK acquisitions We believe that our scale and focus is key to our successful development and operation of UK prime regional shopping centres.
Such assets are rarely traded, so where opportunities arise to acquire interests, particularly where our operator skills can be applied through our specialist asset and property management teams, we remain keen to consider the value creation opportunities.
We announced last month that we were in discussions with Westfield regarding the potential acquisition of its Derby shopping centre and its equity interest in Merry Hill, Dudley.
Those discussions continue to progress satisfactorily.
If the acquisition were to proceed, it is likely that it would be funded through a combination of new debt and equity raised through a rights issue.
However, there can be no certainty that any transaction will be undertaken.
In March 2013 we filled a gap in our national coverage, acquiring Midsummer Place, the aspirational fashion quarter of the UKs number 16 retail destination by catchment spend, central Milton Keynes.
Adjacent to centre:MK with the two centres treated as a single destination by shoppers, Midsummer Places major tenants include Debenhams, H&M, Apple, Superdry, Zara and Topshop.
Since acquisition new retailers and catering operators including Hugo Boss, Timberland and Eds Diner have opened and Topshop Topman has invested in a new flagship shopfit.
In April 2013 we acquired Charter Place, Watford, adjacent to intu Watford, and have subsequently received planning consent for its replacement with a leisureand catering-focused extension to the main centre see Looking to the future below.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 29 Strategic report Business model and strategy International In October 2013 we acquired with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board CPPIB 2 Parque Principado Shopping Centre, Oviedo, a 75,000m approximately 800,000 sq.
ft. prime regional retail destination in Asturias, Northern Spain.
One of Spains top-ranked retail destinations with nine million visitors in 2013, the well-located and 98per cent occupied centre is anchored by Primark, Zara, H&M, Cortefiel, C&A, Mango and Eroski hypermarket, with catering and leisure representing around 20 per cent of space.
The net initial yield for the property at the implied purchase price of 162 million was 7.2per cent.
The acquisition, on attractive and earnings accretive terms, firmly establishes Intus presence on the ground in a country where we see considerable growth opportunities in the regional shopping centre industry and the potential to generate superior total returns over the long term.
The market is quite fragmented in terms of ownership and considerable scope exists for improvement, along the lines of regionally pre-eminent destinations in the UK and elsewhere, in the shopping centre provision for many major catchments in Spain.
Spain is one of the few major European countries without a committed pipeline of prime shopping centre developments and limited investor competition currently provides a contra-cyclical opportunity to acquire large, high quality centres at historically low pricing.
2 Intu also has a site under option near Malaga in Andalucia, for 80,000m of retail space with additional leisure and, as previously announced, has entered into arrangements with Eurofund, a local partner with a track record of successful retail development, for pre-development activity on this site and at two major sites under option, in Valencia and Vigo.
We are aiming to attract additional third party capital to assist with funding Intus Spanish activities without diverting significant financial resources from Intus organic development pipeline in the UK.
In this context, we are actively investigating the creation of a special purpose investment vehicle for our Spanish activities, such as a Spanish REIT, following a number of recent regulatory improvements to this product.
The Group also has the following other investments outside the UK: 11.4 million redeemable joint venture units in Equity One, a US retail REIT, providing an effective interest of nine per cent.
These were received in January 2011 as a result of the restructuring of our previous direct investment in Californian property and are valued at 154 million based on the 31 December 2013 share price of $22.44.
Dividends in the year amounted to $0.88 per unit.
Equity One owns, develops and manages US neighbourhood shopping centres anchored by supermarket chains and has continued to be active in upgrading its property portfolio with an ongoing disposal programme of non-core assets.
Operational metrics continued to improve in 2013 with leasing spreads on renewals and new leases showing good uplifts relative to previous rental levels 32 per cent of listed Indian shopping centre developer, Prozone, and ten per cent of its former parent company, the Indian listed retailer Provogue, valued at a combined 37 million at 31 December 2013.
Prozone has continued to progress the construction of its mixed-use projects at Coimbatore, Nagpur and Indore.
Discussions are progressing with anchor tenants at the proposed Coimbatore shopping centre and an agreement has been signed with the multiplex cinema operator.
The operational mall at Aurangabad has showed encouraging increases intenant sales and footfall in 2013 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 30 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Looking to the future We have made significant progress in the year with our pipeline of organic development opportunities: Two thirds of our 2.6 million sq.
ft. of additional space has now received planning consent, including major extension projects in Watford, Nottingham and at intu Lakeside We have agreed with local authority partners in Watford and Nottingham a firm basis for major development We have improved our financial flexibility to progress these projects by restructuring much of the debt which was to mature in the next few years.
Since the end of 2013 we have increased the level of borrowing secured on intu Trafford Centre.
Further, we plan to recycle capital from existing assets to reinvest into these organic growth opportunities.
This may include asset disposals and or introducing partners into existing assets.
For example intu Uxbridge is currently being marketed.
In the case of major extensions and creation of significant new or reconfigured space, we aim to achieve pre-letting of around two thirds of projects by space and the majority of the rent before proceeding with construction.
A particular area of focus is investment in improving the range, quality and setting of the dining and leisure options across our centres.
These will reinforce the long-term attractiveness of the assets and, with operators keen to expand into our high footfall destinations, are intended to contribute to a superior financial return for shareholders.
Our plans include 1.5 million sq.
ft. of extra catering and leisure space, an 80 per cent increase on the current level.
ft. has already received planning consent and we have applied for a further 360,000 sq.
Examples include the new food court at intu Lakeside, a new dining quarter at intu Eldon Square, a major new destination in the heart of Watford, a street food concept at Midsummer Place and a nine screen cinema at intu Potteries.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 31 Strategic report Business model and strategy The table below sets out a summary of the project pipeline.
In the case of expansionary projects which create additional space for which direct incremental rent can be identified, we would expect most projects to generate a stabilised initial yield on cost in the range of six to ten per cent and at least seven per cent for major projects.
Where no significant additional space is created, we assess project return in the context of an internal rate of return based on the overall impact of the expenditure on centre performance through enhancing the ambience, the tenant mix and the rental tone.
Indicative Expected Intu 1 Size construction investment 2 000 sq.
ft. timing m Committed Refreshing intu 3 intu Lakeside food court refurbishment 201314 7 EldonSquare 4 intu Victoria Centre refurbishment 201415 40 With intu Eldon Squares 22 million intu Potteries leisure extension 58 201415 19 refurbishment we are refreshing 5 Other committed 41 201415 20 65,000sq.
ft. of roof and lights and Active management pipeline constructing a new feature entrance intu Trafford Centre Barton Square courtyard ontoNorthumberland Street.
enclosure and second floor retail 112 201415 40 We are carrying out the majority intu Bromley Queens Gardens restaurants 14 201415 4 of the work overnight to minimise intu Eldon Square Sidgate redevelopment disruption to our shoppers and andrestaurants 201415 12 retailers.
Each evening the centre intu Metrocentre Qube II restaurants 201415 11 is transformed into a hive of 6 intu Lakeside hotel 8 201415 7 construction activity with up to 120 5 Other active management 89 201418 141 operatives, scissor lifts, cherry pickers and cranes operating within the malls.
ft. of structural crash decks, intu Watford Charter Place 380 201417 100 a temporary roof and 16,000 sq.
ft. intu Broadmarsh redevelopment 51 201516 78 of shop front hoardings have been put in place for the works.
Full life intu Lakeside leisure extension 225 201517 80 safety system checks are conducted intu Lakeside Northern extension 438 201618 180 each morning to ensure that the 7 intu Braehead extension 475 201618 200 malls can be safely re-opened for the 8 Cribbs Causeway extension 200 201820 30 tens of thousands of people who visit intu Victoria Centre extension 505 201820 240 every day.
2,274 908 2,596 1,209 1 Represents net additional floor space of retail, catering and leisure.
co. uk ar2013 2 Timing subject to change due to a number of internal and external factors.
3 Total project cost 9 million of which 2 million has already been spent.
4 Total project cost 42 million of which 2 million has already been spent.
5 S maller committed and pipeline projects do not necessarily involve the creation of additional floor space.
6 Size refers to catering element only.
7 Size excludes arena and hotel.
8 Intu share 33 per cent of total project cost of 90 million.
co. uk 32 Strategic report Business model and strategy Chief Executives review continued Principal projects include: intu Watford: our plans for a 380,000 sq.
ft. extension to create a new shopping, dining and entertainment hub for Watford received planning consent in January 2014.
The anchor cinema is under offer and we are encouraged by the level of enquiries for the large format retail and restaurant units.
Subject to satisfactory pre-letting, we anticipate that enabling works could be under way by Winter 2014 15 with a target for completion in 2017 Nottingham: we recently signed a major agreement with Nottingham City Council setting out a way forward for the complementary development of intu Broadmarsh and intu Victoria Centre.
Our development of a restaurant quarter and significant refurbishment of intu Victoria Centre is underway.
This project has already reignited interest from retailers currently not represented in the city.
We will this year initiate public consultation on our leisureand convenience-led refurbishment and redevelopment of intu Broadmarsh.
Subject to legal and commercial preconditions, work could commence in 2015.
Further, proposals for a possible extension of intu Victoria Centre have now received planning approval intu Lakeside: in addition to the food court refurbishment referred to above, we now have planning consent for two major projects which together would add over 600,000 sq.
ft. of new retail, catering, leisure and hotel attractions, significantly increasing intu Lakesides draw and reach and providing more reasons to stay longer.
Given the current high demand from restaurant and entertainment operators for the leisure scheme, we hope to secure sufficient pre-lets to start construction of a first phase in 2015 intu Trafford Centre: having received planning consent to increase overall space and broaden the range of uses at Barton Square, we are in advanced negotiations with a major fashion retailer currently not represented at intu Trafford Centre for a flagship store on a new second floor.
The enabling development, which we expect to start this year to complete in 2015, will include an impressive glass roof to enclose the central courtyard intu Metrocentre: as well as proceeding with our repositioning of Platinum Mall to create a more aspirational ambience, we have received planning consent for a 45,000 sq.
ft. extension to the Qube dining area adjacent to the 12 screen Imax Odeon cinema.
This will add a further 11 catering outlets and will introduce several new operators to the region.
We anticipate securing sufficient pre-letting to start construction this year, to open in 2015 intu Potteries: with a nine screen Cineworld cinema as a powerful anchor, we now have all five restaurant units exchanged or under offer and anticipate starting construction on the leisure extension shortly, for completion in 2015 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 33 Strategic report Business model and strategy intu Eldon Square: our major refurbishment includes refreshing 65,000 sq.
ft. of roof lights and constructing a new feature entrance from Northumberland Street and is due to complete later this year.
We are carrying out the majority of the work overnight to minimise disruption to our shoppers and retailers, with up to 120 operatives on site each evening.
Our proposed new restaurant cluster in the Sidgate mall area has received strong interest from operators new to the region as well as those already trading locally and, subject to pre-letting, we anticipate starting construction later this year intu Braehead: we are awaiting the outcome of the public enquiry by the Scottish Government into the Local Development Plan for Renfrew which should, amongst other things, confirm Braeheads role as a town centre Priorities for 2014 We will continue to focus in 2014 on four main goals which, we believe, will result in strong total returns over the medium term: Optimising the performance of our existing assets, through active asset management with customer experience as the focus for our business plan for each centre, we combine development, tenant mix and operational actions to address the needs and potential of each centre Driving forward our 1.2 billion investment programme as discussed above, with a majority of planning consents now secured, we will determine the timing of expenditure as we secure pre-lettings with the appropriate mix of retailers and operators to create new attractions for each of the destinations.
In addition, where opportunities arise to acquire interests in appropriate assets, we will continue to consider strategic acquisitions Continuing to improve our financial flexibility we will proceed with debt issues and capital recycling from existing assets including disposals and possible introduction of partners in order to provide the funding at the appropriate time to undertake our investment programme.
In February 2014 we issued further notes under the intu Trafford Centre CMBS transaction established in 2000 Reinforcing our brand and digital presence following a successful roll out in 2013 we will develop our brand with its unique integration of digital and physical capabilities to drive demand for our assets and create broader commercial value.
As well as completing our Wi-Fi installation programme at the final four centres, weare preparing trials of a number of property management and service innovations, analytical tools and upgraded online experience David Fischel Chief Executive 28 February 2014 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
