Chief Executive Officers Statement Strategy Last year, I set out the Groups strategy which is to leverage its We are transforming innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer needs to build and maintain leading positions in the second and third the Groups operational tiers of the global defence security and commercial land, marine and performance and aerospace markets.
This enables Cobham to generate sustainable top and bottom line growth, relative to the markets in which we operate, customer delivery while consistently generating good free cash flow, thereby creating through our Excellence shareholder value.
in Delivery programme As a Group, we have invested significantly in the development of our strategy during the year and we are making tangible progress towards achieving our objectives and we anticipate a return to mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Investment in management capabilities Strategic Overview We have increased investment in the year to achieve the objective of enhancing the skills and capabilities of our employees, who are critical to the delivery of future growth.
As part of this investment, Our seven strategic priorities will enable us to return to sustainable we are implementing a strategic workforce plan, have commenced growth.
They focus on: deployment of an integrated talent management programme and are continuing to invest in an online learning and development centre.
Focus on components and subsystems Programme management is a core competency focus which enables 3.
Leverage our technology us to meet customer expectations and deliver growth.
Focus on M&A work has been undertaken to enhance functional excellence in 5.
Operational excellence project and programme management across the Groups diverse 6.
Programme execution range of customer and internally funded activities, together with 7.
Invest in skills and capabilities an increased focus on lifecycle management.
To enable the next stage of our strategic development and to make This will enable us to: further progress towards achieving sustainable growth, we have Deliver growth Generate free cash flow undertaken a review of our structure.
We will be retaining our four Create shareholder value previously reported Divisions, now calling them Sectors, and these will be Communications and Connectivity previously Aerospace and Security, See page 12 for more information US Defence Electronics, Mission Systems and Aviation Services.
Within this structure, we will consolidate our three separate Special Security 8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Agreements into one, with all classified US Government work being Work has now been completed, as planned, in the principal locations on carried out within US Defence Electronics.
This consolidation requires implementing the production, supply chain and engineering standard the transfer of some business units from Communications and operating frameworks.
Since the programme started, it has delivered Connectivity to US Defence Electronics.
There are no changes to the significant improvements in the principal locations across a range of other two Sectors.
We will reflect these changes in our reported results, operational and customer metrics including on time delivery, quality commencing with our 2014 interims.
and an improvement in direct labour productivity of 40%.
We are also strengthening our senior management and reporting With centrally driven implementation activities largely finished, structure to support the continuing transformation.
This includes we are now focusing on actions to ensure that the significant the appointment of a Chief Operating Officer COO who will be progress that has been made to date is sustained, and that a given direct responsibility for some key Group-wide functions as culture of continuous improvement is embedded across the well as direct responsibility for Communications and Connectivity business to drive further improvements.
Work on the ERP system, also a major contributor to sustaining Technology investment the operating and customer benefits of the standard operating We have significantly increased PV investment to 6.2% 2012: 5.3% framework, has continued.
This is consistent with our previously announced plans to increase investment in our markets where there are good Largely driven by the significant acceleration of integration activity, growth opportunities.
we have achieved 28m of year-on-year efficiency savings during 2013, well ahead of the 19m guidance.
This brings the total As part of this, we have increased technology investment in SATCOM annualised benefits to 76m since the programme began in 2010. product development, relating to the new Inmarsat Global Xpress The success in reducing costs means that we now expect EiD will GX satellite constellation, with global coverage expected by the end generate 105m of annualised efficiency benefits by 2015, which of 2014.
Within Antenna Systems, a revolutionary next generation is an increase of 5m on the previous guidance and this will be Distributed Antenna System DAS platform, idDAS, has been achieved one year earlier than planned.
We expect to be able to launched.
idDAS is the first major DAS platform that provides the achieve this within the existing budget, which is 191m over the ability to dynamically shift capacity around an in-building facility programme life.
EiD costs in the year were 56m, reflecting the on demand.
We have also increased PV investment in Cobham Defence Systems Capital allocation and mergers and acquisitions in a range of critical defence security technologies, including We continue to prioritise investment for organic growth, followed components and subsystems for next generation radar, electronic by our long standing, progressive dividend policy.
After this, we use warfare and electronic attack applications, where there is an the significant free cash flows generated and the strong balance sheet identified customer need and funding.
to acquire businesses that are complementary to, and reinforce, our differentiated technology and know-how and market positions.
Total R&D investment, including customer funded projects, was During the year, we invested over 150m in acquisitions: primarily up 19% to 186m 2012: 156m.
The increased level of customer Axell in May for up to 85m, including contingent consideration, funding is primarily due to the ongoing significant funded and in July the 74m acquisition of the outstanding 50% stake in FBH, development activity on aerial refuelling programmes, which our helicopter joint venture.
We remain focused on bringing more is expected to increase in 2014. balance to the portfolio and we will achieve this through a rigorous and disciplined approach to investment.
Operational excellence Our transformational EiD programme has continued to deliver critical Conclusion improvements to operational performance and customer delivery.
We remain convinced that the successful pursuit of these objectives EiD has three components: the integration and rationalisation of is key to the ongoing health of the business.
Accordingly, we intend operating sites into a set of principal locations: the implementation to maintain our strategic focus on executing our key priorities.
This is of a standard operating framework designed to drive operational especially important as conditions in the US defence security market excellence and establish a culture of continuous improvement: and are likely to remain challenging in 2014.
We remain confident that the implementation of a standard ERP system.
this will enable us to develop the capabilities, processes and people that we need to meet the Boards growth expectations and deliver Given the challenging conditions the Group is continuing to face increasing value for Cobhams shareholders and other stakeholders.
in its US defence security market, we have worked hard to accelerate the benefits of the integration and downsizing activities.
A number of satellite facilities have been integrated or rationalised during the year and, in total, we have now rationalised 27 sites since the beginning of 2010.
This has significantly reduced the cost base of the Bob Murphy Group.
We are using the savings generated in part to fund increased Chief Executive Officer investment in our business, to help deliver sustainable organic growth.
5 March 2014 EiD has also simplified the Groups operating structure and enhanced our flexibility and scalability.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9
