DIRECTORS REPORT We went into the year with a clear plan.
cHieF executives In London, we prioritised development over property investment, as we continued statement to believe this would generate substantially higher returns at this point in the cycle.
In Retail, we focused on delivering our big schemes, increasing our exposure to the leisure sector and finding new ways to respond to retailers changing needs.
Pursuit of these objectives meant it was an extremely busy year across the business.
2 We completed 142,520m of new office, retail and residential developments, including 2 km of shop frontage.
We worked to secure lettings, fill voids, reduce costs and add new schemes to our development programme, proving that modern, efficient buildings can succeed in a subdued leasing market.
Each day we attracted close to a million visitors to our shopping centres.
We significantly increased our investment in leisure.
And we maintained a strong balance sheet through our financial discipline.
This activity led to robust financial and operational results.
Revenue profit at 290.7m and adjusted diluted earnings per share at 36.8p were better than we expected at the beginning of the year.
And we managed our From pushing forward with void levels well, reducing them from 2.8% to 2.0% on a like-for-like basis.
See our results development in London to opening on the following page for other highlights.
major new retail schemes, 2013 saw We achieved this strong performance in spite of a difficult economic backdrop.
The UK the Company work to a clear plan.
cannot decide whether it is in recession or not.
Caution Robert Noel reports on our financial reigns.
Ongoing issues in the eurozone havent helped.
The world is an uncertain and operating performance over the place, so we are relying on our own efforts 12 months.
pressinG aHeaD in lonDon Although demand in the capital has been held back by weak business confidence, so has supply.
Our view has not changed since my statement to you last year: low levels of development, high numbers of lease expiries from 2013 and evolving occupier needs mean the market will not have enough of the right product.
Now is the time to be building and delivering efficient and technically resilient space that meets the needs of todays occupiers.
At 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, for example, 56% of the space is now pre-let or in solicitors hands one year ahead of completion and our average rent is over 60 per sq ft. Occupiers are recognising the financial and social benefits of the buildings efficient floorplates, along with its remarkable views and facilities.
We understand how to design and deliver for our market and we know how to fill our buildings.
24 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE DIRECTORS REPORT Development is about timing.
Looking at all new openinGs, new acquisitions OUR RESULTS cHart 3 of the schemes we have started and completed We had a busy March.
Trinity Leeds opened Ungeared total property return % in London since 2010, 91% of the floorspace on the 21st, 95% let or in solicitors hands.
We 8.0% had been let or sold by 31 March 2013.
We then opened our shops at 185-221 Buchanan Total business return were right to press ahead with speculative Street, Glasgow, on the 22nd.
The scheme 7.8 construction, and we are right to keep is fully let.
The early success of these Land Securities building today.
Construction costs have developments demonstrates that despite 4.6% IPD Quarterly remained at attractive levels but will increase the clouds over the retail sector there is Increase in adjusted universe diluted NAV per rapidly with a sustained upswing in activity.
demand for well designed, well located space 3.2 share We remain vigilant.
that matches the expectations of consumers, retailers and the local community.
victoria takes sHape -2.9% We continue to improve the portfolio, Given these market dynamics, we are moving Revenue profit investing in our winning assets and selling at pace in Victoria, SW1.
Recent disposals have included thriving.
The Wellington House apartments secondary assets in Worcester, Welwyn were all sold by completion.
123 Victoria Garden City and Liverpool.
HiGHliGHts Street was completed in August 2012 and is 78% let.
There is strong interest at 62 Leisure is an increasingly important part of Profit before tax 533.0m, up 3.4% Buckingham Gate, although we would like the mix and we took action during the year to Revenue profit 290.7m, down 2.9% to have let it faster.
The Zig Zag Building is increase our activity in this area.
We acquired Adjusted diluted earnings per share 36.8p, on schedule for completion in January 2015.
The Cornerhouse in Nottingham and The down 4.4% Our residential scheme at Kings Gate is due Printworks in Manchester the latter a swiftly Valuation surplus of 217.5m or 2.0% to complete at the same time and 59 of the executed transaction that shows the value of Adjusted diluted NAV per share 903p, up 4.6% 100 apartments have already been pre-sold.
a smart team and a strong balance sheet.
2 Recommended total dividend for the year 29.8p, And we have committed to 67,500m of retail, We increased our interest in the X-Leisure up 2.8% residential and office space at our Nova Victoria Unit Trust to 59.4% and acquired 100% of Sales of 65.9m formerly Victoria Circle joint venture.
This gives us Acquisitions of 529.4m exposure to 16 leisure assets across the UK In the past, people would only go to Victoria and we have welcomed a first class if they had to.
We are transforming the area management team into the business.
into one of the capitals most desirable places to live, work and play.
By the end of this decade An approach that is both responsive and From sounD FounDations to 2 we plan to have delivered over 210,000m of responsible makes us a more successful sustainaBle returns new office, retail and residential space since business.
From local communities to While we are pushing ahead with development recommencing development in 2010. planning departments, we want people to we are doing so from strong financial footings.
be pleased its Land Securities investing in We are keeping our net debt relatively constant winners anD losers in retail their neighbourhood.
by funding developments and acquisitions Turning to retail, the market remains tough from sales.
Our balance sheet gives us with the consumer still under pressure.
our outlook flexibility, should difficult conditions prevail People are generally making fewer visits to We move into a new financial year with an and opportunities arise.
shops but spending more time when there.
In London, Our goal is to create attractive and They demand convenience or a great we expect the occupational market to be sustainable returns for shareholders.
First shopping experience preferably both.
busier, but take-up to remain below the long and foremost, we must ensure we create Retailers and properties unable to meet run average.
We remain confident we will and run properties that appeal to todays those expectations are suffering.
Destination continue to gain a good share of lettings occupiers.
But we must also address longshopping centres and convenient edge-ofthrough the quality of our buildings.
Overall, range issues such as our impact on town retail parks are well placed to compete the retail market will remain challenging, communities and the environment, so and we are prioritising those assets.
but the response to structural change will we meet future regulations and societys continue to separate successful retailers Online continues to impact physical retailing, changing expectations.
Across London, we and property assets from the rest.
but we are also seeing and addressing are creating jobs and making a substantial opportunities to integrate these channels In these mixed conditions it will be smart contribution to UK plc.
This includes through click and collect, new formats for real estate thinking that creates value.
collaborating with partners to help people online retailers, and new uses of mobile and By translating our clear plan into sound into work.
So far 199 people have secured social media.
property decisions on every asset, day after jobs through our London Employment day, we will continue to be successful.
The majority are individuals who As we have said for some time, the changes are furthest from the jobs market: young sweeping through retail are creating winners people, long-term unemployed and exand losers.
We saw several high profile offenders.
At Trinity Leeds, over 200 people retailers fail this year.
We have seen others have received training or work experience expand.
Our established relationships with through the project, and 80 have progressed occupiers have enabled us to anticipate into permanent employment, a good insolvencies and re-let space promptly.
Retail illustration of what our development activity like-for-like voids at the year end were 2.9%, Robert Noel can bring to local economies.
Chief Executive Land Securities Annual Report 2013 25
