Overview Chief Executives review Andrew Jones Chief Executive We are more focused yet remain opportunistic, operating in areas where we have ahigh level of expertise, that help create key points ofdifference The merger has ledto transformational change both in respect significant capital recycling and reducing of the newly integrated LondonMetric and in reshaping the ourexposure to lower yielding, shorterlease portfolio to meet our new strategic priorities.
lengthincome We have a divestment programme across selected assets Bringing together capital and complementary which allows us to release relatively low yielding capital and skillsets recycle the proceeds into higher yielding, stronger covenant One of the key objectives of the merger was to capitalise assets where we have an exciting pipeline of retail and  skill sets across both organisations to allow led distribution opportunities.
This is evidenced by the spread LondonMetric to execute on opportunities that neither between our disposals and acquisitions where we have predecessor could have achieved on its own.
generated a positive yield spread of 150bps, improved the portfolios average lease length by 6.1 years and occupancy Retail and retailer distribution a multi-channel by 7 percentage points.
approach to asset allocation Across our residential portfolio, terms have been agreed for the Shortly after completing the merger we acquired a portfolio sale of 116 units for 59.6 million, releasing c. 48 million of equity.
ofsix retail parks, the Saturn portfolio, for 92.4 million, at a net We have recently begun formal marketing of One Fleet Place, initial yield of 7.8%.
EC4 at an asking yield of 5.25% and are pleased by the strong We are expanding our presence in the retailer-led distribution interest from overseas buyers.
market where we believe there are considerable opportunities for growth as retailers look to satisfy consumers insatiable Positive momentum on residential lettings demand for multi-channel shopping.
We acquired Primarks andunitsales main distribution centre in Thrapston for 60.5 million in March, Our prime central London residential portfolio comprises ata net initial yield of 6.4% and expect to make further 520units with a capital value of 374 million LondonMetric investments in this sector over the next few months.
share: 259 million and generates net rents of 4.9 million.
Seward Street rebranded the Clerkenwell Quarter, our 107 unitdevelopment in Islington, wasacquired in December 2012 for 45.7 million.
We have recently launched asuccessful marketing programme in both Asia and London and to date have agreed 57 sales for 32.1 million ata premium over book value of 2.7%.
We remain on target torelease over 60 million ofequity from this investment over the next six months.
10 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Deals since merger Like-for-like rental growth 1 171m 3.5% 3 Our residential investment portfolio is 98% let having agreed Our contracted rent roll as at 31 March 2013 was 62.5 million 141new lettings for 3 million, at rents 1.1% ahead of previous with theinvestment portfolio contributing 55.5 million passing and concluding 147 lease renewals, 4.3% ahead inannualised rents and the development and residential ofprevious passing rents securing 2.8 million.
We have portfolio the remaining 7 million.
Net rental income for the commenced a divestment programme of individual unit sales year is29.2million, which includes two months of Metrics within this wholly-owned residential portfolio and expect to contribution.
Proforma net income for the full year is have largely monetised this investment over the next year.
39.4million when combining both businesses for the full Todate we have agreed 59 sales generating 27.5 million.
Looking forward our financial position next year willreect the full-years contribution for acquisitions in the In July 2012 we acquired Moore House, Chelsea for 147.1million lasttwo months of thisyear.
LondonMetric share: 58.9 million on behalf of our joint venture with Green Park Investments and the Public Sector EPRA EPS of3.9p includes two months of Metrics contribution Pension Investment Board.
We continue our letting programme and is down 11.4% year-on-year.
and have let 81 units over the period, increasing occupancy to54%.
Stable dividend of 7.0p We have announced a final dividend of 3.5p per share to Valuation surplus 1.7% or 20.3 million bepaid on 12 July 2013, bringing total dividends for the year The portfolio was valued at 1,217 million delivering a valuation to7.0p, at over the previous year.
The Board have agreed surplus net of acquisition costs for the year of 20.3 million, topursue a stable dividend policy which will be reviewed upfrom the 3.0 million surplus delivered last year.
Asset oncethe dividend is sufficiently covered.
management actions made a considerable valuation contribution of 2.0% which was partly offset by an outward Path to achieving dividend cover movement in market yields of 6bps, or 0.3%.
By sector, the We aim to achieve an attractive spread between the lower largest contributor to the valuation movement was residential, yields on disposal and higher reinvestment yields to grow in particular Moore House.
We will also generate additional income from new lettings and the letting up of our developments.
We expect Total return of 8.0% 500bps outperformance each to contribute meaningfully to our cumulative income We outperformed the IPD All Property Quarterly Index toensure that our recurring profits cover the dividend.
by500bps, delivering a property level total return of 8.0% compared with IPD at 3.0%.
We generated a capital return 100 million tender offer taken up of2.4% against the IPD index which witnessed capital declines The share capital has changed substantially as a result of 2.8% overall.
On a total return basis we are pleased to have ofthemerger, adding 178.6 million shares to the register outperformed at each sector level, with retail generating the on28January, representing the 190 million Metric shares largest outperformance of 500bps followed by residential attheagreed exchange ratio of 0.94.
As part of the merger at490bps.
inFebruary, we offered shareholders a 100 million tender offerwhich was taken up in full and reduced the register Robust portfolio metrics by88.6million shares, resulting in a position at the year end 2 Our occupancy at the end of the period was 95% rising to 98% of628.0million shares.
The full take-up of the tender offer post period end.
The average unexpired lease term is 11.6years allowedus to right-size our balance sheet and start 10.8 years to first break.
There are no temporary lettings and LondonMetric in a more nancially efficient position.
19% of portfolio income benets from xed rental uplifts.
EPRA NAV of 109p, NAV adjusted for exceptional 2 Like-for-like rental growth of 3.5% items of 116p We are a total return business and, as a REIT, income forms ERPA NAV per share of 109p is 10p or 8.4% lower than last animportant component.
In a year of tremendous activity years 119p.
The EPRA NAV is reduced by dividends paid, the wehave continued to focus on income growth and delivered merger costs and exceptional items of which the impairment like-for-like rental growth of 3.5%.
The retail portfolio delivered recognised on the sale of Meadowhall Shopping Centre was like-for-like rental growth of 5.7% with the office andindustrial the largest.
portfolio delivering 1.7% and the residential portfolio 2.6%.
1 London Metric share 166 million 2 For the commercial investment portfolio excluding properties under development 3 Includes a deduction of 1.5 million for residential running costs Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 11 Overview Chief Executives review continued Tender offer Annualised rent roll 100m 62.5m Excluding the exceptional items, the NAV would have been Retailers are reassessing the extent of their store 116p compared to the previous years NAV per share.
portfolios anddistribution warehouse requirements Retailers real estate portfolios are coming under ever The EPRA NAV movement is driven by positive movements increasing focus as the retail market continues to evolve with invaluation surplus of 3.7p, underlying profits of 3.8p offset polarisation of shopping habits and a drive towards a multibydividends paid of 7.0p, the impairment recognised channel strategy.
The impact is not only on retailers shop onthesale of Meadowhall Shopping Centre of 4.1p and networks but also signicantly affects their distribution otherexceptional items of 4.7p and other items of 0.9p.
requirements whichwill play an increasing role within their supply chains.
Thisevolution will continue over the next few LTV of 43% with undrawn facilities of 54 million years as many occupational leases expire, allowing retailers As at 31 March 2013, the LTV ratio was 43% with committed toreduce the number of existing shops.
Our average cost of debt over the year was 3.62%.
Going forward, assuming the facilities We expect retail vacancies to increase putting downward were fully drawn, our all-in cost of debt today based on current pressure on rental values, particularly in-town, as impending LIBOR swap rates would be 3.58%.
lease expiries allow retailers to vacate poorly performing shop units.
A number of the weaker retailers have already failed, Market outlook sowe anticipate the rate of failures will start to decline and Over the last few months we have seen a noticeable increase theretailers who havesurvived will continue to benefit from in both the number of parties and quantum of money looking thereduced capacity and grow their market share.
Webelieve across all sectors of the real estate market.
that lease expiries rather than administrations arenow the chief risk to rental income.
Rising investor appetite Retailers have a clear vision of the right size and shape of their The outward yield shift that we witnessed in the first half of our store portfolios, however, distribution strategies are continuing financial year was not repeated in the second half and the to evolve.
These will be increasingly driven by the needs of depth and breadth of investor interest today is now beginning e-tailing as retailers recongure supply chains to cater for to put downward pressure on yields across the various sectors.
This is partly owing to an increased appetite for risk across most Understanding these occupier trends is critical to succeeding sectors with more investors moving up the risk curve in search in the real estate sector today.
The dynamic nature of the ofhigher income returns.
As a result, the divergence between retailmarket is such that increased occupier mobility will prime and good secondary assets is widely expected to undoubtedly create opportunities for those able to build and contract, although conversely the yield gap to poorer deliver modern space that is t for purpose in todays market.
secondary assets will continue to widen.
We continue to try to position ourselves as the preferred real We continue to believe that assets with long and strong estate provider of choice and will continue to stay close incomeoffer good value relative to the low cost of borrowing: toourcustomers across these asset classes.
especially where there is high occupier contentment, limitedasset obsolescence, sustainable rental levels and noincome leakage.
These disciplines continue to drive our approach to new opportunities, as we focus our capital on higher yielding, sustainable income opportunities and new short-cycle Andrew Jones redevelopments which offer us a margin of safety.
This will Chief Executive ensure that we will only invest in assets that we are happy 31 May 2013 toown, even if the market were to shut down for many years.
12 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Pe Per rf fo or rm manc ance r e re ev vie iew w Go Gov five er rn nanc ance e Fin Financ anciial al s st ta at te em me en nts ts O Ov five er rvie view w We are a customerfocused business and aim to be the partner ofchoice across the retail and distribution sector.
We have a bottom up approach to selecting our investments.
We build first-class relationships and leverage this knowledge to ensure our properties have enduring occupier appeal.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 13 13
