30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Delivering growth Reported revenue has grown by 3.9% in the year to 30 September 2013, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and disposals, organic growth has remained strong at 4.3% for the period.
During the year, we delivered new business growth of 8.8%, driven by a good performance in MAP 1 client sales and marketing in North America and Fast Growing & Emerging.
Our retention rate also remained high at 94%, despite the cumulative effect of our planned exit of certain uneconomic contracts and business closures in Europe.
Like for like revenue growth of 1.8% reflects modest price increases and slightly negative like for like volume.
Like for like volume continues to be broadly flat in North America, modestly positive in Fast Growing & Emerging and negative in Europe & Japan.
We have retained our focus on increasing consumer participation and spend through MAP 2 consumer sales and marketing initiatives, developing innovative and exciting consumer propositions, and improving our peoples retailing skills.
Underlying operating profit increased by 7.8% in the year on a constant currency basis, with the underlying operating profit margin increasing by 20 basis points to 7.1%.
We have continued to generate efficiencies through embedding the MAP framework deeper into the business.
We have maintained our focus on MAP 3 cost of food initiatives such as menu planning and supplier rationalisation, as well as MAP 4 labour and in unit costs and MAP 5 above unit costs.
These efficiencies are, in part, being reinvested in exciting growth opportunities around the world, for example, in management teams and systems in emerging markets, and helping us to manage the difficult economic conditions in Europe.
They are also enabling us to deliver further improvement in the operating profit margin.
We have taken a goodwill impairment charge of 377 million in relation to our business in the UK.
The goodwill principally relates to historic transactions.
The impairment charge was primarily driven by an Our sustainable business increase in the discount rate as a result of increases in UK gilt rates.
model, built on organic revenue Strategy Focus on food growth, operating efficiencies, Food remains our core business.
The structural opportunity in the outsourced food service market, estimated at 200 billion, is a key competitive advantage and our growth driver.
With only around 50% of the market currently outsourced, it represents a significant opportunity.
We believe the people, is an established formula benefits of outsourcing will become ever more apparent as economic conditions and legislative changes put increasing pressure on for growth that enables us to organisations budgets.
Sectors such as Healthcare & Seniors and Education are significantly underpenetrated and Business & Industry, deliver value for our stakeholders.
whilst more highly penetrated, is still attractive due to its scale, growth and the fragmented nature of the market.
As one of the largest providers in all of our sectors, we are well placed to benefit from these trends.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 31 Delivering growth Growing support and multi services Ongoing drive for efficiencies Support and multi services are also an important part of our business We believe that we are only part of the way through the journey to and we continue to win new contracts and expand the range of drive further productivity in our cost of food MAP 3 and our in unit costs services we supply to our existing clients.
Our largest sector in this MAP4, as well as being able to leverage the overhead base by controlling market is Defence, Offshore & Remote, although we also see some our above unit costs MAP 5.
During 2013, we have continued to opportunities in Business & Industry, Healthcare & Seniors and improve our discipline around supplier and product rationalisation, Education.
This is a complex market and there are significant recipe standardisation and labour scheduling, as well as rolling out differences in client buying behaviour across countries, sectors and lean management techniques.
The ongoing generation of efficiencies sub sectors.
Our approach is therefore low risk and incremental, with helps underpin our expectation of further margin progression.
strategies developed on a country by country basis.
Uses of cash and balance sheet priorities Geographic spread and emerging markets The Groups cash flow generation remains excellent and it will The Group has evolved significantly over the last 10 years from a continue to be a key part of the business model.
It enables us to reward predominantly European based business with just over 11 billion of Shareholders in parallel with reinvesting for growth and making infill revenue to the 17.6 billion global business today.
Over time, we expect acquisitions.
In addition, we are committed to growing the dividend the split of revenue to continue to evolve.
broadly in line with constant currency earnings and maintaining a cash cover of two times.
An efficient balance sheet remains a priority and we North America 47% of Group revenue will remain the principal growth continue to target strong investment grade credit ratings, which imply engine for the Group.
We have a market leading business, which a net debt to EBITDA ratio of around 1 to 1.2 times.
In light of this, we delivers high levels of growth and steady margin expansion.
The have announced a further share buyback programme of 500 million outsourcing culture is vibrant and the addressable market is significant.
This will follow the current 400 million share We are well positioned, with a good client base in all of our core buyback, which we expect to complete by the end of the 2013 sectors, and a strong management team.
The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe & Japan 34% of Summary and outlook Group revenue are solid: however, we expect economic conditions there to remain challenging in the short term.
We continue to take Compass has had a good year, delivering solid organic revenue growth measures to reduce cost and make our operations more competitive and a 20 basis point increase in the Group operating margin, which for the future, building a better business on the good foundations is now over 7% for the first time.
North America and Fast Growing in place.
We still see many opportunities to drive growth in revenue & Emerging, which account for two thirds of Group revenue, have and margin.
grown strongly and our operating margin in North America has remained above 8%.
Looking ahead to next year, the pipeline of Fast Growing & Emerging 19% of Group revenue is an increasingly new contracts is encouraging and we expect to see further good important part of our business.
We have a strong presence in key performances in these regions.
We anticipate economic conditions markets such as Australia, Brazil and Turkey, and we are growing in Europe & Japan will remain challenging.
However, the actions we rapidly in India and China.
With the potential they offer, we are investing are taking give us confidence in another year of delivery.
As the trend to outsourcing increases, we would hope to see high levels of growth maintained well into the future.
We remain very positive about the opportunities to grow the business and we are well placed to capitalise on the significant structural growth Organic growth, supplemented by infill acquisitions potential in both food and support services globally.
We also expect to Through the application of MAP 1 and MAP 2, quality and sustainable deliver further cost efficiencies which will help to support future growth organic growth remains our priority but we will look to make infill and enable us to make further progress in the operating margin.
As a acquisitions where they deliver value.
We seek out small to medium result, we remain confident in our ability to continue to create significant sized infill acquisitions in food and support services in our existing value for our Shareholders.
geographies, bringing on board quality businesses and strong management teams.
In 2013, we have invested around 104 million in such acquisitions.
We continue to target financial returns ahead of our cost of capital by the end of the secondyear.
Richard Cousins Group Chief Executive 27 November 2013
