Chief Executives strategy review Building a strong platform Mike Norris, Chief Executive For the Executive Management at Computacenter, 2013 has been about three main priorities.
All of them relate to Firstly, we have taken action to ensure that We have additionally carried out an our aim of building a strong platform for we have in place appropriate governance extensive strategy review process, and our our business.
processes and procedures, so that the current shareholders that received our 2012 Services we provide to our customers Annual Report and Accounts will notice that It is a strong platform that will allow us adhere to our Group standards of quality the Groups strategic objectives have been to deliver consistently for our customers and reliability no matter where from, or by modified as a result.
As is explained on and ensure that we remain in a position to whom within the Group, those Services page 19, we will continue to invest in our respond to the current and future needs are delivered.
With this in mind, you will see technical capability and scale to allow us of their businesses.
reference within the following pages to the to achieve these updated objectives.
implementation of our Group Operating Model.
We believe that this is fundamental to the development of our business and the achievement of our strategic objectives Finally, although 2013 has been a year as we look to pursue medium term of good underlying business performance Services growth.
The background to, and by the Group, it has also required some operation of, this model is explained in tough decisions to be made by the more detail on pages 10 and 11 of this Group that have impacted our short-term strategy review by our Chief Operating profitability.
However, we are confident Officer, Chris Webb.
that these decisions will allow us to provide additional value for our I am pleased to inform you that the impact shareholders over the medium term.
of the model on our German business, since its implementation in January 2013, We hope to receive your support at the has been very positive.
We look forward Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting.
to its full implementation within our French business over the coming few months.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 04 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 The following pages describe the elements that are helping us to build a strong platform for our business.
Our strategy page 06 Delivering for and retaining our customers will allow us to grow our Services business and maximise the return for our shareholders over the long term.
Our sustainable business model page 08 Puts the needs and satisfaction of our customers at the heart of our business.
Our Group Operating Model page 10 Enhancing and driving efficiencies within our operational capability through investment in our people and industrialisation of our processes will allow us to compete in our markets through both quality and cost of our Services.
Our risk management approach page 12 Robust risk mitigation underpins everything we do.
Our key performance indicators page 16 Measurable performance is key to future growth and achieving our aims.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 05 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
