14 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW HOW WE ARE PROGRESSING WITH OUR STRATEGY We are now well positioned to take advantage of improving markets and business sentiment Our focus throughout 2013 has ensured that we have We have made significant progress against these priorities, made further progress towards our ambition of becoming exceeding our disposal target for the year, expanding the best owner, asset manager and developer of our development programme and reducing our Group industrial properties, and a leading income-focused REIT.
The most significant transaction Our actions have been concentrated on delivering against in the year was the creation of the SEGRO European the four strategic priorities outlined in November 2011: Logistics Partnership SELP, a 1 billion joint venture.
This represented an important milestone in our objective 1.
Reshaping the existing portfolio by divesting non-core to increase the use of third party capital whilst also assets which do not meet our strategic and financial leveraging our operating and investment expertise to criteria and reducing non-income producing assets expand our exposure to the growing European big box asaproportion of the total portfolio: logistics market on an attractive, risk-adjusted basis.
Delivering profitable growth and reinvesting in core There remains progress to be made on all four of the markets and asset types by taking advantage of priorities: however, having sold 1.1 billion of assets since attractive development and acquisition opportunities: the start of 2012, our focus is now shifting from portfolio 3.
Reducing net debt and financial leverage over time reshaping and business restructuring towards growth.
and introducing further third party capital where Our development pipeline is rich with opportunities to appropriate: and deliver long-term attractive income and capital returns, and we believe the Group is well placed to benefit from 4.
Driving our operational performance across the both the improving economic environment and a number business through greater customer focus, knowledge of structural drivers of demand, not least the growth in sharing, efficiency improvements and cost reductions.
online retailing, as retailers seek real estate solutions to their last mile delivery requirements.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: RESHAPING THE DELIVERING PROFITABLE REDUCING NET DRIVING OUR EXISTINGPORTFOLIO GROWTH THROUGH DEBT AND OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT INTRODUCING THIRD PERFORMANCE AND ACQUISITION PARTY CAPITAL PAGE 15 PAGE 16 PAGE 19 PAGE 20 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
