ChieF exeCutive oFFiCers Our customers need more strategiC review than just space.
We are recognising that with a successful strategy.
New and growing companies are the engine of growth to work in true partnership with them and have a stronger for the whole country.
Our strategy of focusing our understanding of where future demand lies.
this has resources on supporting these companies continued to helped us as, amongst other things, roll out more of our pay off and this, coupled with the quality and location of co-working club Workspace sites and continue to develop the assets we own, has helped us to report like-for-like our digital platform, where already we are receiving almost growth of 9% in our rent roll and an 8% uplift to the 40,000 visits a month to our website.
capital value of our portfolio.
WE WORk SUSTAiNAbLy AS PART OF EVERyDAy Overlaid on our deep understanding of London bUSiNESS FOR US, OUR cUSTOMERS AND OUR commercial real estate is a detailed appreciation of PARTNERS the essential attributes of support that help our Promoting entrepreneurship and lowering carbon customers businesses be successful: from the right footprints are no longer mutually exclusive goals as more technology and services, to flexibility of environment, and more business is transacted digitally and we work these fast-moving companies need more than just space.
hard to ensure we remain at the forefront in environmental We are alive to that and last year we developed our and sustainability practice.
Elsewhere, working alongside customer relationships and grew the number of new Londons mayor in our inspiresme programme to lettings by understanding and meeting this need.
encourage todays schoolchildren to aspire to be tomorrows entrepreneur was one example of the depth all of this was achieved by remaining true to the four of our involvement in the local community.
long-term strategic priorities that underpin everything we do.
We also know how important it is that our employees feel fully engaged in what we are doing so this year we WE OWN THE RiGHT PROPERTiES THAT ARE launched a Share incentive Plan to help them benefit TAiLORED TO MEET OUR cUSTOMERS NEEDS AND from the future success of the company.
this culture of WE iNTENSiVELy MANAGE THEM TO DRiVE ownership is creating an even stronger focus on the link OccUPANcy AND RENTS between us, our properties and our customers.
this year saw us drive forward a number of new projects across our portfolio from full building refurbishments and as our understanding of our customers deepens and our extensions through to new floors and the modernisation engagement with them broadens, it is clear that demand of reception areas.
at all times we keep as many existing is evolving into what we see as the next generation of customers in situ as possible while working on the work space.
customers are relying increasingly on digital buildings.
many of those customers who do have to platforms and scalability, but in addition they also value move out are keen to return once the projects are the creative interaction that comes with being part of complete or they often take an alternative solution physical business communities.
Listening to them, we within our extensive portfolio.
are putting in place superior telecoms infrastructure and services on the same flexible terms as our leases.
more broadly, everyone in our business from our central We are also facilitating access to cloud computing, we marketing and lettings teams through to our staff on site are bringing customers together at organised events are motivated to increase occupancy and rent wherever that result in networking and inter-trading and we are possible across our portfolio.
broadening our footprint for the smaller entrepreneurs with club Workspace.
WE MAXiMiSE THE VALUE OF OUR LONDON-bASED PROPERTy PORTFOLiO AND iTS WiDER these and other new initiatives are establishing us as OPPORTUNiTiES FOR REPOSiTiONiNG AND an essential partner to our customers, enabling their REDEVELOPMENT businesses to grow faster and, in turn, positioning us Planning consents progressed strongly resulting in as the leading provider of space, environment and short-term capital gains as well as longer-term income communities tailored to the needs of these new and growth potential.
Grand union, Kensington, was a good growing companies.
example where we obtained planning permission for 145 residential units alongside a brand new tailor-made Looking forward, i see our target customer base business centre on an existing industrial site.
We will continuing to grow.
Whether they are labelled new and start to market this business centre to customers upon growing companies, the tmt sector or SmEs, we do all completion at the beginning of 2015. we can to position ourselves as the landlord of choice for this tenant type.
We have an experienced and talented reflecting our focused portfolio management approach, team at Workspace and a very clear and focused strategy we also made some disposals, removing properties which for growth.
Our assets are of quality and character, were no longer aligned to our strategic objectives.
relevant to the modern needs of today and extremely well positioned to benefit from the increasing migration WE UNDERSTAND OUR cUSTOMERS AND ENHANcE of occupiers across London.
OUR bRAND by RESPONDiNG TO THEiR NEEDS a true differentiator for Workspace is the way in which JAMiE HOPkiNS we interact directly with our customers all of the time we chiEF ExEcutivE OFFicEr dont rely on agents or intermediaries and this allows us 06 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 Jamie Hopkins, CHief exeCutive offiCer witH Claudia and rutH, Centre staff at Canterbury Court in kennington park.
Related infoRmation ouR StRategy p. 08 geneRating Value p. 10 CoRpoRate SoCial ReSponSibility p. 14 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
