R eview of operations 01-26 INVESTOR INFORMATION Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 REGISTRAR THE COMPANYS ADVISERS INCLUDE: All general enquiries concerning ordinary shares in Workspace Group PLC, should be addressed to: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  LLP COMPUTERSHARE INVESTOR SERVICES PLC Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors The Pavilions 1 Embankment Place Bridgwater Road London WC2n 6RH Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 44 0 870 707 1413 JOINT SOLICITORS NORTON ROSE Alternatively, shareholders can contact Computershare 3 More London Riverside online via their free Investor Centre facility.
Shareholders London SE1 2Aq have the ability to set up or amend bank details for direct credit of dividend payments, amend address details, SLAUGHTER AND MAY view payment history and access information on the One Bunhill Row Companys share price.
For more information or to London EC1y 8yy register please visit www.
co. uk BANkERS WEBSITE THE ROYAL BANk OF SCOTLAND The Company has a corporate website, which holds, Corporate and Institutional Banking amongst other information, a copy of our latest annual 280 Bishopsgate report and accounts, a list of properties held by the London EC2M 4RB Group and copies of all press announcements.
The site can be found at www.
FINANCIAL ADVISERS N M ROTHSCHILD REGISTERED OFFICE AND HEADQUARTERS new Court CHESTER HOUSE, St Swithins Lane Kennington Park, London 1-3 Brixton Road, EC4n 8AL London, SW9 6DE.
JOINT STOCkBROkERS Registered number: 2041612 ESPIRITO SANTO INVESTMENT BANk 10 Paternoster Square Telephone: 44 0 20 7138 3300 London EC4M 7AL Facsimile: 44 0 20 7247 0157 Web: www.
co. uk INVESTEC Email: info@workspace.
co. uk 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7qP COMPANY SECRETARY Carmelina Carfora Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 GLOSSARy OF TERMS BWPT BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint Loan to value is the current loan balance divided by the venture property fund with the BlackRock UK Property current value of properties secured on the loan.
Fund in which the Group holds a 20.1% interest.
Market rental values see ERV.
Cash rent roll is the current net rents receivable for occupied units.
Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided by the number of shares at the period end.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the weighted average number of shares in Net bank debt is the amount drawn on bank facilities, issue during the period.
including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided EPRA NAV is a definition of net asset value as set out by by the total net lettable area excluding land used for the European Public Real Estate Association.
net assets after excluding mark to market adjustments of effective cash flow hedges financial derivatives and Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which deferred tax relating to revaluation movements, capital the sale of an interest in the property would complete allowances and derivatives.
unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all a property will produce based upon the timing of the expenditure other than taxation.
occupancy of the property and timing of the income receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally yield multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
subject to withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax-exempted property rental business and Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the which is taxable for UK resident shareholders at their Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market marginal tax rate.
rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review.
REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the UK Finance Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay Exceptional items are significant items of income or no corporation tax on profits derived from their property expense that by virtue of their size, incidence or nature rental business.
are shown separately on the Income Statement to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Rent roll see cash rent roll.
Gearing on adjusted net assets is the Groups net debt Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent as a percentage of net assets excluding mark to market estimated by the Groups external valuers, where the derivative adjustments.
net rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
by the portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable value.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
is covered by operating profit.
Small and medium sized enterprises SMEs are those IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company businesses with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff that produces an independent benchmark of property of less than 50.
Most Workspace customers are SME returns.
businesses with staffing of up to 20.
IPD Universe is the IPD quarterly universe property fund Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained benchmark of approximately 250 50bn UK domestic by a shareholder calculated by combining both share property funds.
price movements and dividend receipts.
LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London Trading profit after interest is net rental income, joint Interbank Offer Rate.
venture trading income and finance income, less administrative expenses, less finance costs.
Like-for-like are those properties that have been held throughout a 12 month period and have not been subject Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated counted to a refurbishment or redevelopment programme in the only once visitors to a website over the course of a last 24 months.
100 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 WORKSPACE GROUP ONLINE OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTENTS Workspaces comprehensive website gives you fast, WHAT WE DO direct access to a wide range of Company information.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Workspace provides business IFC Our business model To fi nd out more go to www.
co. uk 01 2013 highlights premises tailored to the needs 02 Strong momentum 04 Chairmans Statement of new and growing companies 06 Chief Executive O cers Strategic Review 08 Our strategy across London.
10 Generating value 12 Portfolio potential 14 Corporate Social Responsibility 16 Business Review HOW WE DO IT 26 Key Property Statistics Workspace understands the GOVERNANCE 28 Chairmans Introduction changing needs of these 30 The Board and Executive Committee 32 Report of the Directors companies and actively adapts 35 Corporate Governance Report 45 Directors Remuneration Report and manages its buildings to 61 Directors Responsibilities create an environment for growth.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC 63 Consolidated Income Statement WHERE WE DO IT 63 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Workspace owns over 100 64 Consolidated Balance Sheet 65 Consolidated Statement of properties in London providing Changes in Equity 66 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 5.2 million square feet of space 67 Notes to the Financial Statements 91 Independent Auditors Report to the and is home to some 4,000 Members of Workspace Group PLC Parent Company businesses employing more 92 Parent Company Balance Sheet 93 Notes to the Parent Company than 30,000 people.
Financial Statements 95 Five-Year Performance 95 Key Performance Indicators HOW WE GENERATE VALUE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 96 Property Portfolio Workspace is growing through 99 Investor Information 100 Glossary of Terms deep market knowledge, operational excellence and strong customer relationships.
CUSTOMERS INVESTORS CO-WORkING Workspace is enhancing both core Offi ce About us Club locations Light industrial Corporate information Join Club operational income and capital Studios Corporate social responsibility Our events Workshops RnS announcements Hold a meeting values by repositioning speci c Serviced offi ces Share price and information About Club property assets.
Co-working Publications archive Investors Bonds Workspace provides the right properties to attract its customers and the right services to retain them and help them grow.
RELATED INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY P. 08 WORkSPAcE GROUP PLc ANNUAL REPORT AND AccOUNTS 2013 WORkSPAcE GROUP PLc ANNUAL REPORT AND AccOUNTS 2013 W W ORk ORk SP SP A A cE cE UNDERS UNDERS TT AND AND SS WORk W SO PR Ak cS E G PA R cO E G UP P RO L U cP PLc ChestChes er house ter house W W ORk SP ORk SP A A cE cE KenniK ng enn ton in P gar ton k Park 1-3 Br1 ix -3 B ton r rixo to an r d oad London London SW9 6DE SW9 6DE ANNU ANNU AL REPORT AL REPORT teleph to eln ee p: ho 4n 4 e: 0 2 44 0 7 0 2 138 3 0 73 13 08 3 0 300 AND A AND A ccc OUNT cOUNT S 20 S 20 13 13 Web: w Ww eb w : w. ww orw ks.
w pa or cks e. c pa o. c ue k. co. uk Email:E im nfa oi@w l: info or@w kspo ac rk es.
ac uk e. co. uk if you r if y eq ou u r ire i eq nu fo irr e i mn afo tio rm n r ae tig oa n r rde in gg a rding busine bu sss s in pa esc se s ipa n L con e in don Lon cdon all call 44 0 2 44 0 7 0 2 360 7 9 23 36 99 2 0 o3 r v 90 o isit r visit www.
w pa or cks e. c pa o. c ue k.. co. uk.
this report is print this report is print ed on ma ed on ma terials which terials which are FSc c are FSc c ertifi ed fr ertifi om w ed fr ell-managed f om well-managed f orests.
these ma these ma terials c tontain EcF Elemental erials contain EcF Elemental chlorine Fr chlorine Fr ee pulp and ar ee pulp and ar e 100% r e 100% r ecyclable ecy.
Designed b Designed b y carnegie Orr y carnegie Orr a Workspac a Workspac e Group cus e Group cus tomer tomer 44 0 20 7 44 0 20 7 610 6140 610 6.
