Chief Executives Statement Despite a weak macro global economic environment, Croda delivered a solid result in 2013.
This performance underlines the resilience of our business model, which focuses on using our global reach to target fastgrowing niche, mature and emerging markets with our high-value, highly innovative products.
Real Progress Against our Strategy In Martins Statement, he talks about how, in 2013, we focused on innovation and emerging markets as two key strategic areas to drive future sustainable growth.
We made real progress with our strategy, in particular with our new product development as evidenced by a record number of launches in both our Consumer Care and Performance Technologies business segments.
I would like to provide some more detail to emphasise the progress we have made.
In innovation, we have seen a significant acceleration in new product development resulting in more product launches than ever before.
In particular, we saw a double-digit increase in sales of our New and Protected Products NPP in both Consumer Care and Performance Technologies.
The acquisition of Arizona Chemicals polymer business has provided us with valuable new technologies and a rich patent portfolio, which we expect to have a very positive impact on our business around the world.
Technology capture is on the increase.
Our Technology Investment Group has Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive identified a number of new technologies that we would like to acquire to satisfy unmet needs, and the team is now working hard to make this a reality.
In emerging markets, we have significantly increased our presence with the acquisition of Sipo, our first manufacturing investment in China.
One of the main attractions of Sipo is the newly commissioned, but not yet fully utilised site.
In an important market, this has given us the local footprint we need to support our sales growth, primarily in Performance Technologies.
We have also opened three new R&D laboratories and two sales offices and customer training centres in Asia, Latin America and Africa, which will allow us to be more responsive to our fast-growing customer base in these markets.
Continued Strong Demand for our Products So, we have seen a year of increased innovation, global co-ordination and investment into emerging markets.
The continuing strong demand for our new and protected products bears witness to the effectiveness of our strategy which continues to focus on differentiation, innovation and investment for a sustainable future.
Solid Sector Performance Consumer Care sales increased by 1.2% over the year to 593.2m 2012: 586.4m, with good underlying growth and favourable currency translation in Western Europe countered by extremely weak sales in EEMEA, adverse currency translation in Asia and only marginal growth overall in other markets.
Higher margin NPP sales saw double-digit 1 growth, supporting a 3.2% rise in adjusted operating profit to 191.3m 2012: 185.3m.
The improving quality of our product mix helped increase return on sales to 32.2% 2012: 31.6%.
P08 Innovation P16 Strategy P28 Sustainability 04 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Health Care had the highest increase in turnover, with a strong approach is becoming an important differentiator for our business and performance in excipients offsetting a weak Omega 3 market in therefore a significant means of generating growth.
We were extremely pleased to achieve a number of new sustainability Personal Care was mixed, with only marginal growth overall: accreditations in 2013, including: Sederma skin actives, IRB plant stem cells and Arizona polyamides all CDP Climate Disclosure Leader 2013: one of 41 businesses who have made excellent progress and sales activity for our new acrylic demonstrated leadership in climate change transparency through polymers platform was encouraging.
good internal data management and understanding of climatePerformance elsewhere was disappointing, caused by lower levels of change-related issues affecting the company.
Gold EcoVadis CSR Rating which recognises our environmental and Crop Care sales were flat, characterised by: social practices, and our influence within our supply chain.
A tough first half of the year due to inclement weather in the USA and We also maintained our Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations and Northern Europe restricting the early planting season.
Improving demand in the second half.
Performance Technologies sales rose by 1.1% to 387.1m 2012: 382.8m with a very strong underlying performance in Asia eroded by declines in EEMEA and Western Europe.
Again, growth was enhanced by a double-digit improvement in sales of innovative new products, helping 1 achieve an adjusted operating profit increase of 5.9% to 63.0m 2012: 59.5m.
Geo Technologies led the sales growth and Our People... At the Heart of Everything we do improvements were seen in all business areas apart from Coatings & Croda is a global company with a presence in 34 countries and one Polymers.
Return on sales improved to 16.3% 2012: 15.5%, representing extremely talented and dedicated team of individuals.
As a knowledge further progress towards our medium term target of 20%.
business, our dependence on the expertise of our people is particularly high and we work hard to attract, recruit and retain the best.
I am once Industrial Chemicals - Another year of progress helped by the acquisition again pleased to report that our retention rates around the world remain of Sipo, sales of speciality products and an increase in volume availability very high and our people continue to show their commitment to of our co-streams.
We saw a 16.9% sales increase to 96.7m 2012: long-term careers with Croda through, for example, increasing 1 82.7m, adjusted operating profit was flat at 10.3m 2012: 10.3m and participation in our savings-related share schemes.
with Sipo having little time to make a meaningful contribution to profit, return on sales reduced to 10.7% 2012: 12.5%.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues around the world for their continued hard work and dedication to our business.
We Our Global Performance could not have achieved these results without them.
In 2013 we saw sales growth in all our five geographical reporting regions, with the exception of EEMEA.
Supported by favourable currency translation the strongest growth was achieved in Western Europe, which was up 3.6%, and North America, up 3.0%.
Adverse currency translation reduced our reported turnover growth in Asia and Latin America.
It is Steve Foots pleasing to see healthy sales progress in China, Brazil and Mexico where Group Chief Executive we have targeted recent investment but this was offset by weak sales across EEMEA and in Argentina and Venezuela.
A Sustainable Business Yet again, we have made excellent progress against a number of our sustainability targets.
More and more, as customer and consumer demand for renewable ingredients continues to increase, our sustainable 1 Continuing operations before exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation write off of intangible assets arising on acquisition Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 05
