Strategic report C hief Executives review How would you summarise Afrens business continues to go from strength Afrens performance in 2013?
to strength following a significant number 2013 was another exceptional year for Afren, and a continued validation of our business ofoperational successes during 2013.
Here, model and growth strategy.
We have achieved record results and performed well theChief Executive Osman Shahenshah against the KPIs and Performance metrics answers investors questions.
weuse to assess the strength of our business.
Our Total Shareholder Return TSR for the period was 23%, representing an upper quartile performance compared to the FTSE350 Oil & Gas Index, a significant achievement given the ongoing market turbulence, and the net equity outflows in the E&P sector.
Itis worth noting that since listing in 2005, wehave achieved a TSR of 746%, significantly outperforming both the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas and FTSE All Share indices.
A number of factors enable Afrens continued success.
While we have assembled a worldclass portfolio of assets, we have also invested in making sure we have the right people to manage and operate them.
We also prioritise long-term relationships with local Partners, host communities and governments, ahead of shortterm gains.
With a record of project delivery, strategic acquisitions and maturing exploration credentials, we are well placed to continue tocreate significant value for ourshareholders.
What were the years operational highlights?
There have been a number of significant highlights this year.
Of particular note is the continued E&A success.
We achieved industryOsman Shahenshah leading exploration success and a 2Preserves Chief Executive and Founder replacement ratio in 2013 of 201%, atestament to our ability to grow organic reserves and fide-risk our opportunity-rich portfolio.
In Nigeria, the basin-opening discovery at Ogo was one of the largest in the world in 2013 and the largest in Nigeria for over a decade.
P50 gross recoverable resources at the field are estimated to be 774 mmboe, significantly larger than our pre-drill estimates of 202 mmboe.
We plan to drill an appraisal well in the second half of 2014, ahead of a planned development.
We also enjoyed significant exploration and appraisal success in Kurdistan, with the Simrit-2 well on the Ain Sifni PSC achieving aggregate flow rates of 19,641 bopd.
The Simrit-3 well, exploring the eastern extent of the large scale Simrit anticline, completed a multi-zone testing programme resulting in a cumulative rate ofover 6,000 bopd.
Following the declaration of commerciality on the block, we expect to further grow our reserves and resources base inthe region in 2014.
The Maqlub-1 exploration well, testing the high-potential Maqlub structure on the block, is currently drilling ahead, and has Afren plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report encountered hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous We believe that technical maturity of an and Jurassic reservoirs.
Early results from our asset is key to reducing risk and uncertainty, US$1.22bn ongoing multi-well E&A drilling campaign have and we use available technologies and data been encouraging, and we have multiple wells to minimise pre-drill risks and maximise our 25% planned over the remainder of the year targeting chance of a successful drilling outcome.
Wealso look to manage our portfolio Operating cash flow from a risk reward perspective, and will 2013 was also a year of strong production consider farm-in and farm-out opportunities growth, which has led to record financial asappropriate.
The combined performance of our producing assets yielded What are your current a year-on-year net production growth of objectives for the 7.5% to 47,112 boepd, at the top end of our 2013 guidance.
Our main producing Ogo discovery?
assets in Nigeria, the Ebok and Okoro fields, We are aiming for further appraisal offshore Nigeria, continue to perform ahead drilling in the second half of 2014, and in of expectations and we remain on track to preparation for this we will gather additional ramp up production from the Barda Rash PSC, 3D marine seismic to augment our existing Kurdistan region of Iraq, and OML 26, onshore seismic database.
The discovery at Ogo has Nigeria.
Our discoveries in 2012 and 2013 have significantly increased Afrens net prospective laid the foundations for an exciting phase of resource and provides a platform to develop development that will ensure Afren delivers a major new production hub in a previously double-digit growth over the next five years.
under-developed region of the West African Transform Margin.
We are excited about the How do you view the prospects for Ogo and the neighbouring balance of the portfolio?
OML 113 field, which we will also be drilling this year, and look forward to working with Balance is a very important concept.
We believe our Partners in realising the potential of this our portfolio offers an attractive mix of near, significant discovery.
medium and long-term growth opportunities, spanning the full E&P value chain.
It is this How do you see the balance which differentiates us from our peers and which has enabled us to establish EastAfrica portfolio a leading position across each of our main changing?
Our growth ambitions East Africa remains an exciting region for are underpinned by a disciplined approach Afren.
Since assembling the portfolio we have tofinancial management and capital allocation.
successfully acquired and interpreted over 2 11,500 km of 2D seismic, 4,976 km of 3D How would you characterise seismic and 25,580 km of gravity-magnetic Afrens exploration strategy?
The results of this work have enabled us We have constructed our exploration to increase our net prospective resources from portfolio around play-based themes, with 2,113 mmboe to 8,501 mmboe, representing anemphasis on blending exposure across: a fourfold increase since acquisition.
Following a period of evaluation at Block 10A, Kenya, Low-risk opportunities that are quick the Partners elected to relinquish the acreage to monetise, in and around our major in late 2013.
We have matured ready-to-drill production and development areas in the prospects on the Tangablock inTanzania Niger delta and the Kurdistan region of Iraq and L17 L18 and Block 1 inKenya, which Moderate-risk, proven-play concepts that weexpect to drill in 2014. offer significant upside along the West African Transform Margin and other parts of the region Higher-risk, play-opening opportunities inthe rift and coastal basins of East Africa.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Strategic report C hief Executives review continued As for business conduct, we believe the What do you see as your What will the Companys Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative main challenges?
EITI is important as it encourages There is intensified pressure on the price of In simple terms, we will continue to create transparency of revenues and transactions oil, mainly due to expansion in US oil and gas exceptional shareholder value using our between host governments and natural production, and continued political unrest in technical and financial strengths.
Consequently, we have the Middle East.
This remains a factor, though success over the past two years has created decided to become a corporate supporter the jurisdictions we operate in and sell to a unique opportunity set from which ofthe organisation.
have continued to see high demand, and we can organically grow production and We also continue to work closely with local sales remain strong.
To mitigate the effects cash flows.
Accordingly, we have a busy communities to encourage the sharing of ofnegative oil price movements, we maintain work programme planned for 2014, both economic wealth and the building of local an active hedging strategy, described in the in development and in exploration and capacity.
Our community relations teams are Financial Review.
I am confident that Afren has the involved in a wide range of education, health ofoperating in favourable economic right team, the right approach, and the right and job creation initiatives.
You can find environments mean our projects could assets and funding in place to continue our information about these on our website.
continue to break even, at significantly lower record of delivering operational success and oil price levels.
What steps are you taking to Another major challenge is operating ensure the highest standards an international company, which means of corporate governance?
exposure to local political change.
Managing this issue remains a high priority, and we We will continue to improve our standards of ensure all parties we work with pay close governance.
This year, we have strengthened Osman Shahenshah attention to it.
We are also committed the Board with the appointment of Chief Executive and Founder to complying to the highest standards of MsSheree Bryant who brings to the Board governance and we will continue to work a balanced and unique perspective on to achieve the high standards expected corporate responsibility and community ofalarge mid-cap oil company.
development, as we look to expand our footprint across Africa and the Middle East.
Will you continue tomake What is Afrens growth acquisitions in2014?
Well, the key here is our quest to maximise shareholder value.
While we continue to add Our targets to 2015 remain those we resources and reserves organically, wealways set out in 2011, and we are well on our consider new opportunities if we can see way to achieving these, as shown in the clear potential at an attractive price, and if table opposite.
Essentially our strategy is they fit with our strategic objectives.
Our to continue to grow our presence in the acquisitions to date illustrate our forwardmain areas of our activity, while ensuring thinking approach, and ability to enter new we deploy capital in the most efficient way territories ahead of peers.
in relation to our full business cycle, and optimising our production and development What were the recent key operations for maximum value.
Technically, inthat time frame from 2012-2015, corporate responsibility weset out todiscover 250mmboe of net highlights for the business?
recoverable 2P & 2C reserves and resources Corporate responsibility matters are a very from our forward exploration drilling important aspect of our business and directly programme: tomaintain valuation discipline linked to our licence to operate.
We are by targeting 2P & 2C additions at a cost always looking for ways to improve our of under US$4 bbl: and to progressively approach and performance.
For example, evolve asignificant portion of our existing atour Ebok field, we recently began injecting 2Cresource base into the 2P reserves gas back into the ground rather than flaring category.
All this activity is underpinned it.
Were looking at ways of extending this by aiming for the highest standards of initiative around the business.
governance and by continually improving ourCR performance.
It is evident that Afren made significant progress toward its business objectives, during the period, and we have carried thismomentum into 2014.
Afren plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business target Progress in 2013 Outlook for 2014 Continue to grow Afrens We are an established leading independent oil We continue to build upon the successes we presence in our main producer inNigeria and a leading industry participant have achieved in each of our three business units, areas of activity and in East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
through our operational expertise and our geological plays.
Progressively convert a We achieved net 2P reserves growth of 34.1 mmbbls In addition to the approval expected on the FDP significant portion of our in the year following the successful E&A campaign at submitted on OML 26, werecently submitted a existing 2C resource base Okwok and extension of cost recovery at Ebok.
has resulted in a 2P reserves replacement ratio in expected to further grow our reserves and resources 2013 of 201%.
Discover 250 mmboe of We achieved a world-class exploration success In 2014 we will target 1,237 mmboe of net net recoverable 2P & 2C in2013.
This is attributable to the three significant prospective resources.
This is in adherence toour reserves and resources discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of strategy of focusing on: from our forward Iraq.
Our discovery in Nigeria has organically added Exploration in proven areas which are low risk and exploration drilling net 2P reserves of 26.4 mmbbls.
Since 2012, easy to monetise Ebok in Nigeria and Barda Rash programme by 2015. wehavesuccessfully added 73.1 mmbbls of net 2P in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
&2C reserves and resources and are well on our way to achieve our target of 250 mmboe net recoverable Moderate-risk proven plays that offer significant 2P & 2C reserves and resources by 2015. upside OPL 310 in Nigeria.
Higher-risk, play-opening opportunities inEastAfrica Tanga in Tanzania, Block 1 in Kenya.
Grow production Like-for-like net production in 2013 increased by Following cost recovery on Ebok, we expect net year-on-year.
This was at the upper end production in 2014 to average approximately ofour production guidance.
Manage and optimise Production at the Ebok field increased by 16% In 2014 we are looking to build on our strong ourproduction and year-on-year and at Okoro field increased by 7%.
operating base at Ebok and Okoro.
Having reached development operations At Okoro, production operations have run seamlessly cost recovery ontwo greenfield developments they to maximise the value in 2013, with significant progress being made are now self-funding and able to generate ofthe business.
At Ebok, sustainable long-term value forshareholders.
three production wells were brought on stream inrecord time.
Ensure available capital Capital expenditure in 2013 was in line with Capital expenditure for 2014 is expected to be isdeployed in the most guidance atUS$716 million, and balanced across approximately US$845 million and focuses both efficient way and to suit our production, development, appraisal and on high cash return projects and further our full cycle business exploration activities.
Continually improve We performed exceptionally well in 2013, achieving, We intend in 2014 to significantly enhance our CRperformance.
andinsome cases exceeding, our targets.
reporting on corporate responsibility issues, recognising the increasing interest from our stakeholders in these matters.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
