Report of the Directors Chief Executives review are also taking the lead in calling for clearer country of origin labelling for dairy products so that British consumers can support British farmers.
Looking forward we are hoping for a more benign climate for farming.
However we expect consumers to remain cautious and demand to remain subdued.
Long-term strategy We remain clear that our longterm strategy to grow branded and added value sales, become more efficient, reduce risk and improve the quality of our earnings and make valueenhancing acquisitions and disposals is the right one for the business.
We have made good progress with the execution of Summary extended our major liquid milk contract with Sainsburys through to 2017 and reduced our this strategy during the last year.
This has been an important exposure to less profitable contracts.
year in the history of Dairy Last year we set a medium-term target The rationalisation of our Dairies business, Crest.
The transformational sale of a 3% return on sales for this business.
which has involved a three year programme Despite the additional support we provided of investment in three key dairies and the of our French spreads to our farmers in the year, we have made closure of the Fenstanton and Aintree business, St Hubert, resulted in some progress towards our target.
Second dairies as well as 28 distribution depots, proceeds of 341 million and half margins, which are usually higher than demonstrates our determination to create generated a post-tax profit of those in the first half, rose to 1.7%.
We retained our contract to supply liquid milk to 47.7 million.
This sale and St Hubert Sainsburys through to 2017 in the face subsequent reorganisation of It was not an easy decision to sell St of fierce competition and new processing our balance sheet leaves us Hubert.
This was a strong business that capacity coming on stream elsewhere in well placed to meet the had performed extremely well under the dairy sector.
This was a good result and Dairy Crests ownership and had made a vindicates the difficult decisions we have challenges of the tough significant contribution to the profitability of made in this part of our business.
consumer environment and to the business.
However it did not provide The work we have done over recent invest in growth in the UK.
the platform for further expansion into years to focus the business and remove continental Europe that we anticipated.
complexity has allowed us to initiate a Taken together our four key brands have The successful disposal of St Hubert reorganisation into one management and increased their value market share.
This has reduced significantly the Groups operating structure.
The new structure is is a solid performance and reflects our gearing.
Following the sale, our year end net focused on consumer-driven growth with consistent strategic focus on brand equity debt is at its lowest level since 2000.
This an integrated supply chain and is consistent and innovation.
strong position has allowed us to reduce our with our long-term strategy to build added A sustainable supply of milk is of vital exposure to the pension fund by making a value sales and drive efficiencies.
In the face of one-off contribution of 40 million subsequent Cutting costs is an embedded part of some of the most challenging weather to the year end and provides us with exciting our strategy and cost reductions have been ever experienced by our farmers, and opportunities to invest for growth.
important in achieving our targets this year.
higher feed costs that have put pressure We maintained our record of implementing on their businesses, we were first to adopt Market background cost saving initiatives of at least 20 million a government-sponsored voluntary code The year has seen generally lower food per annum, achieving 23 million in the year.
In addition, we increased consumption reflecting fragile consumer Our employees, including Board members the milk prices we paid to farmers and confidence.
and senior management, have contributed introduced a ground-breaking contract Changes elsewhere in the market place by accepting below-inflation pay increases.
which allowed them to opt for a formulaic have left us as the largest UK-owned dairy In addition to the initiatives in our Dairies milk price mechanism that provides greater foods company.
We are proud to be in this business and our reorganisation into one transparency and reduces volatility.
position and recognise the onus it places structure, we are also consolidating our two Higher farmgate milk prices have on us to provide leadership to the UK dairy British spreads manufacturing facilities onto put pressure on our Dairies business.
We have fulfilled this role by being the one site as we target a further 20 million Nevertheless we have made progress in first major milk buyer to fully implement the of savings in the new financial year.
We have completed our Governments voluntary code of practice for efficiency measures help us to support our three-year 75 million investment programme: milk supply contracts and by introducing a key brands, meet profit expectations and closed two dairies: driven down costs: formula based milk purchasing contract.
14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Brand MarketDairy Crest Market statistics sales growth Brand growth Market growth UK cheese 3% 5% 2% UK butter, -5% -1% -3% spreads, margarine UK butter, -3% 1% -3% spreads, margarine Flavoured milk 5% 5% 10% Total % 3% Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2013 v 12 months to 31 March 2012 Nielsen data 52 weeks to 30 March 2013 Trading performance and from products introduced in the last three properties we no longer require and, in the financial summary years.
We have an ambitious target of 10% absence of acquisitions or internal investment for such sales which we achieved last year in new growth opportunities, would expect A solid performance from our but have missed this year as new products net debt to fall after 2013 14. four key brands, Cathedral City, introduced three years ago dropped out of Our strong financial position and our Clover, Country Life and FRijj, the calculation.
confidence that we can generate cash from Adjusted Group profit before tax our existing product categories means we particularly in the first half of the increased by 7% to 50.6 million 2012: have the capability to invest in attractive year, coupled with an 47.5 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per growth opportunities, either internally or accelerated programme of share increased by 3% to 29.9 pence 2012: through acquisition.
efficiency measures, resulted in 28.9 pence.
We are excited about an opportunity Group net debt at 31 March 2013 was to increase profits from whey, a by-product a strong trading performance 60 million 2012: 336 million, principally of the cheese manufacturing process.
At and we delivered results for the reflecting the proceeds from the sale of present we manufacture whey powder which year in line with our expectations.
is mainly sold to food manufacturers, but we believe there now may be an opportunity to As the table above shows, total revenue Future prospects add greater value to our high quality whey from our four key brands is flat year on We believe that we can generate profit stream and enter other, more attractive year with Cathedral City and FRijj growth growth in all three of our product categories markets.
A project is underway to scope being offset by lower Clover and Country over the medium term.
We believe we can the opportunity.
Retail sales of these brands as continue to grow sales and profits in our measured by Nielsen have grown in total cheese business: that the consolidation of Current trading by 3% and Cathedral City, Clover and our spreads manufacturing footprint onto The current financial year has started in line Country Life have all grown market share.
one site will improve the profitability of that with our expectations.
We have announced Although FRijj has lost market share in the business: and that our Dairies business will higher milk prices for our farmers but have face of strong competition from new brands continue to benefit from the work we are demonstrated in the past that we can do introduced by competitors, its own growth doing to move towards our medium-term this without damaging profitability.
Key to reflects the expansion of the overall market.
target of 3% return on sales.
achieving this is the ongoing implementation We continue to invest behind our key In addition, the post year end debt of our strategy to reduce controllable costs brands and are committed to their ongoing restructure will result in lower interest and we are again on track to meet our success.
Our market-leading cheddar charges in the future.
targeted 20 million saving during the year.
brand, Cathedral City, goes from strength We are focused on generating cash to strength and has become one of the from the business as well as growing profits, UKs major food brands.
In 2012 it was albeit we expect net debt to rise in the year the only food brand voted into the top ten ending 31 March 2014 as a result of our of YouGovs Brand Index, alongside BBC one-off cash contribution to the pension iPlayer, John Lewis and Amazon.
fund and investment in our new Spreads Mark Allen Chief Executive New products launched in the last few manufacturing facility.
22 May 2013 years such as FRijj The Incredible, Chedds Once the Spreads project is completed and Cathedral City Selections contributed to we will have well-invested, modern facilities this performance and we continue to focus across our business and we would expect on bringing new products to the market.
capital expenditure in the existing business This year around 5% of our total revenue to fall back towards the level of annual and 9% of our key brand revenue has come depreciation.
We will also continue to sell Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 15 Overview
