Chief Executives review Introduction Given the fundamental strengths of the business and real During the year, we have made good momentum on the Improvement Plan, I believe that the Group progress on the Improvement Plan and has a strong foundation from which to achieve sustainable enter the third year of the Plan with real momentum.
The benefits gained in cost growth over the long term.
savings and process improvement have helped improve our operating margin notwithstanding the challenging market conditions.
The Group has reported an 8 per cent reduction in revenue to 483.7m 2011 12: 528.3m largely reflecting lower trading volumes in the Currency business unit.
Operating profit before exceptional items was 63.2m 2011 12: 63.1m.
Savings of 12m were realised in the period bringing the annual cost reductions under the Improvement Plan to 20m.
Order intake in the period was lower than originally expected, reflecting delays in a number of important Currency contracts, lower overspill and the challenging currency market.
At the year end, the Group 12 month order book, excluding currently suspended orders, was down 17 per cent at 207m 2011 12: 248m.
However, the pipeline of order opportunities is strong, with an increased level of overspill prospects compared with the low level Tim Cobbold experienced in 2012 13.
We expect that Chief Executive an appropriate proportion of this pipeline will be converted into orders for delivery in 2013 14.
Delivering the Improvement Plan We have continued to make good progress on the implementation of the Plan, the benefits of which have become more important in the increasingly challenging currency market.
The improvements generated through the revenue initiatives have helped in part to mitigate these challenges.
The cost reduction programme is ahead of schedule and is now expected to exceed our original target by 10m and deliver annual savings of 40m by the end of the Plan.
We have identified further cost reduction opportunities that will be pursued in the periods beyond 2013 14.
The Plan includes an investment programme to improve manufacturing capability, quality and efficiency with capital expenditure in the period of 37.1m, bringing the cumulative spend in the first two years of the Plan to 69.2m.
Over the three years of the Plan we expect to have invested c100m.
This ongoing programme will give the Group greater flexibility and improve its competitive position, allowing it to respond better to market opportunities.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 16
