8 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executives strategic review An interview with Michael Sharp Michael Sharp talks about how we performed during 2013, the key challenges we are facing, how we are addressing those challenges through our strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand and how we are ensuring the long-term viability of our business.
Can you summarise your strategy for Debenhams?
Our strategic goal is to create sustainable value through building a leading international, multi-channel brand.
There are four pillars to this strategy: 1 focusing on UK retail, 2 delivering a compelling customer proposition, 3 increasing choice and availability through multi-channel and 4 expanding the brand internationally.
I first articulated this strategy when I became Chief Executive in the autumn of 2011 and we are focused relentlessly on its execution.
What were your highs and lows of Debenhams performance in 2013?
I believe we made some solid progress in 2013 against the backdrop of a very tough environment characterised by weak consumer sentiment, a highly competitive marketplace and unhelpful weather conditions.
We were clearly disappointed and frustrated by the impact of widespread snow during the crucial January sale period on our profitability in the first half of the year but I believe we did everything we could to mitigate its effect.
I was particularly pleased by our market share performance during the year.
We gained share in key product categories and saw good growth in areas which we had particularly targeted for share growth, such as footwear where we gained share in womens, mens and childrens shoes.
Our multi-channel business continued to grow well ahead of the market with online sales up 46.2% compared with market growth of 14.1%.
We are on track to meet our medium-term online sales target of 600 million.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 9 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Retail in the UK is What are the key challenges you are facing in 2014 and beyond?
undergoing a profound Retail in the UK is undergoing a profound change due to the channel shift change due to the channel between stores and online.
The resultant decline in store footfall in addition to cost inflation means that store costs are growing faster than store sales, putting shift between stores and store profitability under pressure.
The four pillars of our strategy are helping us to meet this challenge.
By focusing on UK retail in the first pillar, we are managing online.
We are addressing store costs very closely and making prudent investment in core stores through the this challenge through the store modernisation programme.
By driving sales and improving the economics of our multi-channel business in the third pillar, we are seeking to fill the gap four pillars of our strategy.
in store profitability by building on our strong multi-channel credentials.
Growth in profitability will come through expanding the brand internationally which is the focus of the fourth pillar of the strategy.
What are you doing to address declining store profitability in the UK?
We are undertaking a number of initiatives.
These include the own brand sales density trials in key womenswear brands Red Herring and Principles by Ben fide Lisi as well as womens footwear which have shown some useful results in their first season and have therefore been continued into autumn winter 2013.
We are also reconfiguring stores for multi-channel through, for example, enhanced Click & Collect facilities.
The model store programme to improve store standards is now well established and we are seeing results in terms of better product presentation and visual merchandising.
The current store modernisation programme commenced in summer 2010.
Since then, 44 stores have been upgraded, including 12 in 2013.
Our thorough planning and execution process results in modernisations delivering a strong IRR of c. 15% with a sales uplift of c. 6.0% in the first year post-modernisation.
Looking further ahead, we are conducting an estate-wide space review to ensure all space in being used in the most profitable way.
Why do you believe it is right to open new stores in the UK given the channel shift?
Stores are an important part of our ability to meet customers demands for multi-channel shopping and will remain our largest single sales channel for the foreseeable future.
Our contracted store pipeline currently stands at 16 stores with four opening in each of the next four financial years.
New stores have shorter lease lengths than existing stores, many with break clauses and capped rent reviews.
They are configured for multi-channel services such as Click & Collect and at the same time emphasis is placed on hospitality and other services which cannot be replicated online to drive footfall.
We know that there is a strong correlation between the opening of a new store and online sales in a particular area.
You can read more about our experience in Chesterfield on page 19.
Lets not forget that we have a track record of delivering strong financial returns from new stores.
The 37 stores opened in the past seven years have generated a return on investment averaging c. 40%.
How can you improve the economics of your multi-channel business?
The two main costs associated with multi-channel are customer acquisition and fulfilment.
The first is principally around search.
We have done a great deal of work to optimise paid search and measure the return on the words and phrases that we buy.
We are now turning our attention to optimising natural search which can reduce the cost of customer acquisition significantly.
Taking advantage of the growth in shopping through mobile devices is also an important tool to lower costs, particularly through apps which allow for communication through push notifications.
Fulfilment principally comprises picking, packing, despatch and delivery.
In the past year we have brought all fulfilment of all own bought products in-house through our two national distribution centres.
We will see increased efficiency in fulfilment as we grow online sales towards our medium-term target of 600 million.
We are also making changes to our delivery options which will enable us to recover a higher proportion of our fulfilment costs through offering next day delivery for a premium fee and raising the threshold for free standard delivery.
The changes will be fully operational in time for Christmas 2013.
10 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executives strategic review continued You have been quoted in the past as saying that product is the lifeblood Transforming Oxford Street of your business.
What new initiatives are you undertaking to ensure your The transformation of our Oxford product offer meets your customers expectations?
Street store in central London into Our proposition is more relevant today than it ever has been and we are redefining our international flagship is proceeding the department store to meet the changing behaviour of todays consumers.
The entire store is being Our product offer is unique through its combination of credible own brands modernised, inside and out, including including Designers at Debenhams, international brands and concessions.
an innovative architectural facade and It is differentiated by our multi-category and multi-brand approach which sees the addition of a new seventh floor of each brand clearly targeting a defined customer group or end use.
Working with leading exclusive through our core and designer own brands which account for some retail design consultancy Dalziel & Pow, 50% of everything we sell.
These characteristics will continue to inform our we are creating a store which redefines product and brand strategy.
Debenhams in Oxford Street and beyond.
We are building on our brand Designers at Debenhams lies at the heart of our own brand offer.
New designers strengths and strong customer base include our first new menswear designer for ten years Patrick Grant, Todd Lynn to create a vibrant and relevant concept in womenswear and Stephen Jones in womens accessories.
which brings personality, fashionability and quality to the shopping experience.
What form do you expect international expansion to take?
We use a different approach for different international markets owned stores, franchise stores and online which provides flexibility and matches our appetite for risk.
We have owned businesses in Denmark and the Republic of Ireland which are a key part of our international division but I do not envisage opening owned stores in any other countries at this time.
The majority of international growth will come from franchise stores and online which are lower cost, lower risk routes to take advantage of the demand we see from international customers.
Our target for franchise stores is 150 in five years time.
There are 24 stores in the pipeline, starting with seven in 2014.
New markets are likely to be those with a growing mid-market demographic where the department store market is underrepresented.
We are also seeing very strong growth in our international online activities, albeit from a low base.
You employ thousands of people directly in the UK and internationally The interior will be completed with many thousands more working in your supply chain and franchise in time for peak trading in 2013. stores.
What are you doing to ensure their wellbeing?
A phased reveal of the facade commenced in September 2013 We fully recognise the importance of our people to the success of our business and will be completed in the spring and how vital it is to attract, retain and develop the very best talent in the of 2014. industry.
We are committed to ensuring the wellbeing of everyone connected with Debenhams.
We want to make Debenhams a great place to work and to this end undertook our first ever employee engagement survey in the UK and Irish businesses during 2013 which all employees in our stores and head office were invited to take part in.
The findings were extremely interesting and have influenced our thinking in a number of important areas.
The survey will be repeated annually and its results have been adopted as a KPI of the Group see page 33.
As members of the Ethical Trading Initiative since 2001, Debenhams has been working for many years to ensure those who work in our supply chain are treated fairly, with respect and dignity, and work in a safe environment.
We shared the widely felt shock and horror of the Rana Plaza incident in Bangladesh on 24 April 2013.
Debenhams did not source from that facility but we, along with many other retailers, have become a signatory to the accord agreement to help prevent another tragedy.
The accord, which has been written by the European trade union IndustriALL, creates a unified retail collaboration to develop and implement a way to assess building and fire safety.
The agreement binds all signatories to approach the way in which they assess factories in a new, positive light.
The accord also sets a precedent for retailers to support a factory and its employees in the event it is deemed unsafe.
The signatories also support unionisation of the factories by IndustriALL, continuing to support collaborative bargaining and freedom of association.
It has been our long-standing practice that all our suppliers must adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct and we conduct a full programme of monitoring, including auditing, and conduct regular unannounced factory visits across our supply chain.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 11 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 th Debenhams will celebrate its 200 anniversary in the 2014 financial year.
Celebrating 200 years What do you need to do to ensure the long-term viability of the business?
In December 1813, William Debenham Debenhams has prospered for the last 200 years by putting customers at the invested in a drapery business run heart of everything we do and adapting to their changing needs and the wider by William Clark to form Clark & market environment.
Through our strategy, we are evolving from an operator of Debenham.
We will be celebrating UK department stores to an international, multi-channel brand which can deliver the bicentenary of the Debenhams sustainable value over the long-term.
Supporting the four pillars of our strategy, name appearing on the British and key to this evolution, are what I refer to as three enablers: people, supply chain high street in many ways over and systems.
I have already talked about how important our people are to us.
Supply chain connects the business to its customers and includes sourcing and logistics.
In terms of sourcing, we are working to improve speed to market and to become both more flexible and more efficient.
We are changing our logistics activities to meet the needs of an international, multi-channel business and its customers, for example widening the range of delivery options available to online customers in the UK and shipping product direct from suppliers in China to our largest franchise partners.
We are investing in our systems capabilities across the four pillars.
I would highlight in particular the work we are undertaking to give us a single view of the customer which will give us a deeper understanding of our customers behaviour and allow us to use that understanding to give customers a more personalised and relevant experience.
Successful execution of the four pillars and the three enablers are therefore key to ensuring Debenhams long-term success.
What is your outlook for the year ahead?
We continue to deliver growth and additional customer benefits through our Read more about our KPIs strong multi-channel capabilities.
At the same time, we are working hard to ensure P32-33 our UK stores adapt to the challenge of their changing role in a multi-channel world.
Looking ahead, we remain confident in our strategy and are excited about the upcoming November relaunch of our global flagship store on Oxford Street which th coincides with the celebration of Debenhams 200 anniversary.
More widely, whilst consumer confidence may be showing signs of improvement, we expect that household incomes will remain under pressure from inflation growing ahead of wage increases.
We therefore remain cautious about the strength and pace of any consumer recovery in 2014 and expect the marketplace to remain highly competitive.
