26 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Chief Executive Officers Q&A Your questions answered with Ian Page, Chief Executive Officer Q Q Why did Dechra decide to sell the How does the sale of the Services Services businesses?
businesses impact Group strategy going forward?
The Group strategy has been clear for several years: to develop a high margin, The Group strategy has not changed at cash generative veterinary pharmaceutical all.
If anything, the sale of the Services and products business.
Within this strategy businesses has allowed us to have an there is clearly no place for the Services even clearer focus on our core strategy: businesses.
Historically, the Services furthermore, the proceeds of the sale have businesses were the strongest part of the strengthened our balance sheet considerably.
Group both in terms of turnover and profit, The consequences of which are that we but as the years have progressed, and we now have the capabilities to look at further have developed our pharmaceutical business, acquisitions if they become available to us that contribution has diminished.
in the future, and also we are able to put a little bit more investment in our product What actually triggered the transaction was development pipeline, which will strengthen a firm offer from Patterson.
Patterson have a the opportunities for future growth.
sole focus on Services: we believe that they will secure the future of the staff within the Services businesses and also continue to excel in performance at providing high levels of service to customers.
So these factors, along with the firm offer, meant that we believed it was a strong win-win position for both parties.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 27 www.
com Stock code: DPH Q Q Has the Eurovet integration progressed What are your expectations for the according to plan and has it fulfilled all business in the medium and long term?
The worlds animal health markets are It has definitely fulfilled our expectations.
It continuing to show growth.
The companion has extended our geography, particularly animal markets remain strong in North into Germany: strengthened our companion America and Western Europe, and the animal product portfolio: enhanced our livestock markets continue to increase in manufacturing capabilities and also moved the developing world where there is a high us into the livestock sector, which is a very demand for animal protein.
So overall we important area for us to be involved in, are in a very strong position to deliver good as we look at our international expansion organic growth with our existing portfolio opportunities.
but additionally, as I have already outlined, we have a very strong product development In terms of the integration, it has delivered pipeline which will enhance that growth.
We all the expected synergies to date of both are looking at new countries to establish a revenue and cost nature: we expect it to presence: global expansion is high on our continue to deliver further revenue synergies agenda: furthermore, with our strong balance over the next couple of years.
sheet, we will hopefully be able to find one or two acquisitions to bolster the Group as a whole.
So, all in all, we are in a very strong Q position to cement ourselves as one of the When will the product development top ten global animal health companies.
pipeline start to deliver significant new products?
The product pipeline has actually delivered Developing products year on year now for several years, both pharmaceuticals and diets.
The Focusing next major product was expected to be an equine lameness product but unfortunately Delivering this was delayed due to third party contract manufacturing issues.
However, we have now resolved the issues and we expect the product to appear within the next 12 months within one or two major territories.
Behind that, there is an extensive list of novel products that we have in development, so hopefully we should see at least one of these Web link products appearing per year from 2014 for your Watch the Online Video onwards.
