I 2 3 4 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Peter Page Profits were maintained, despite raw material cost increases and challenging conditions in some 2013 WAS A YEAR OF CONSIDERABLE markets.
As a result of these activities, Devro is building a sound base for growth in the future.
ACHIEVEMENTS, WITH COMPLETION OF THE MAJOR INVESTMENT PROJECT Market overview and Devros strategy During 2013, the global market for edible collagen IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC, THE INITIATION casings grew by 7%, and the total value of the market worldwide is now estimated to be OF A SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT approximately 650 million.
IN THE USA AND COMPREHENSIVE In emerging markets, the total volume of casings sold increased by 10%, most markedly in China, PREPARATION FOR ESTABLISHING South East Asia and Latin America.
This occurred A LOCAL MANUFACTURING PLANT as the result of a growing urban population, with higher disposable incomes, consuming greater TO SERVICE THE RAPIDLY GROWING quantities of protein per person.
In many developed markets, the demand for edible collagen casings was flat or declining for a variety of reasons.
In the USA, total volumes of sausage sold increased by 2%.
In the UK, although total sales value increased, actual volumes of sausage sold declined 5% over the two year period 2012- 2013, attributable to the rise of pork prices to all-time high levels.
Demand in Western Europe was subdued, as a result of the general economic climate adversely affecting consumer spending patterns, particularly during the first half of the year.
The market in Japan improved in 2013, but Australia saw a decline in volumes of processed sausage consumed and therefore a lower demand for collagen casings.
Devros strategy is to ensure that the business is well-positioned to supply growing demand in emerging markets, to continue to displace gut with more efficient casings in developed markets, and to lead the category worldwide with product innovations such as Select casings and co-extrusion gel.
This strategy will ensure that Devro continues to grow long-term sales.
18 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 One example of developing innovative products Devro sales in 2013 is our co-extrusion gel business which expanded Overall sales volumes were marginally down, during the year, principally attributable to a key with emerging markets growing 6%, offset customer bringing on additional capacity in the by developed markets, which reduced by 5%.
Americas as they transfer from cellulose applications to collagen co-extrusion.
Emerging markets now account for 41% of total sales, up from 38% in 2012.
Volumes increased Overall, in constant currency, the price per unit most significantly in Latin America volume 21%: of edible collagen sold increased by 2%.
In some local currency value 22%, South East Asia markets prices were raised to recover input costs, volume 16%: local currency value 25% and in others they were held constant in order to retain China, which grew rapidly from a low base.
In all volumes, particularly in instances such as Japan these markets, strong support for local distributors where exchange rates changed significantly.
The and greater availability of product in the second overall average price was also affected by changes half of the year enabled further growth.
in market, product and customer mix.
Sales volumes in Eastern Europe, Russia and Manufacturing in 2013 Ukraine fell by 9% reflecting subdued demand The highlight of 2013 was the completion, on compared to previous years, higher levels budget and on time, of a three-year, 25 million of competitor activity and, in some markets, investment project at our plant in Jilemnice in the a reaction to Devros price increases at the Czech Republic.
This added 9% to the groups start of the year.
total manufacturing capacity and will lead to further unit cost reductions at this site, which has Developed markets now account for 59% of total now benefitted from over 100 million of capital sales.
Whilst overall sales were 5% down on 2012, expenditure in the past decade.
there was an impressive increase in sales in Germany, with both volume and revenue in local The factory in Bathurst, Australia manufactured currency up 30%.
This growth came from activities higher volumes than the prior year following to promote Select casing for wiener sausage a partial upgrade during late 2012, enabling applications, a new Bratwurst casing, and growing increased supplies to key markets in Asia.
use of the standard FINE product range.
Germany is a key market for developing Devros sales.
Both factories in Glasgow, Scotland ran well, benefitting from recent capital investment Sales volumes in Japan increased 6% as the projects and an ongoing programme of demand for Select and Devros regular casings continuous improvement which is being remained strong.
Availability of product increased implemented at all plants.
with the completion of capacity upgrade projects at Devros plant in Australia at the end of 2012.
The plant at Sandy Run, South Carolina, USA, which is 35 years old and uses a markedly different UK and Australia New Zealand sales volumes technology to our other factories, tends to both reduced, by 6% and 9% respectively, in experience more operational difficulties.
This part reflecting lower market demand, but also was particularly evident in the first half of the year due to significant cost pressures on customers.
and total group operating profit for the year was Sales volumes in USA and Canada were down 6%, adversely impacted by an estimated 2 million.
where manufacturing challenges restricted The 40 million investment project is based on capacity available for sale.
the well-proven and dependable manufacturing technology used at our plants in Europe, and is expected to give cost savings of c. 8 million per annum, which will start to come through from mid 2016.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Since the announcement in November 2013, this Scotland had a particularly commendable year project has progressed well.
Permits have been where, with over 500 employees, there were no approved, contracts for the civil work have been lost working day injuries nor working days lost due signed and we expect to break ground this month.
to an incident in previous years, and the rate of A global project team, including colleagues from recordable incidents per million hours worked was the USA, UK and Czech Republic, has been the lowest ever seen at Devro.
established to harness the expertise and knowledge that have been built over many The successful management of a five-year product years of successful investment projects.
development pipeline is the key to supporting future growth of the group.
A global Research & As in 2012, the biggest challenge to manufacturing Development team has been brought together operations was the rise in hide costs, with a total from existing resources during 2013 to ensure that increase of 4 million during the year.
This is due to the whole group benefits from product innovations an increase in the overall global demand for food and that all development resources are used to grade collagen from trusted sources of cattle hides.
Group activities One new product to emerge from this is Fresh Safety is a priority and the overall group Select, which will be introduced to customers in the performance reflected further progress in 2013, UK in 2014.
Fresh Select is based on our successful with the number of days lost due to injury at work Select technology, achieving high levels of clarity being the lowest recorded since 2000.
Devro and translucency in its appearance, attributes that Background DEVELOPED MARKETS The USA & Canada market for all sausage casings is INVESTMENT estimated to be in excess of 80 million in value.
Edible IN THE USA collagen casings are used for three types of sausage: processed, snack stick and dinner sausage.
Skinless hot dogs manufactured using cellulose remain a very large part of the category.
Branded products lead the market.
Currently Devro has a 35% share of the market, employing over 400 people and supplying 398 customers in North America, including the major brands.
Devros plant at Sandy Run, South Carolina is now 35 years old and uses a markedly different technology to our other factories.
As a result it tends to experience more operational difficulties, which was particularly evident in the first half of 2013.
20 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 customers normally associate with gut.
These are apprenticeship and technical skills development combined with high elasticity and wall strength, programmes.
whilst having a thin wall which gives a light bite.
At the end of 2013, Graeme Walford joined the Following a programme launched in 2012 to establish Executive Board, principally to take responsibility a single global Devro marque, the benefits of the for the groups major capital investment projects.
strong brand were evident at the triennial IFFA show, He brings over 30 years experience of engineering the meat industrys biggest international gathering, and project management in global businesses.
which was held in 2013 at Frankfurt Messe.
During 2012 and 2013 a strong team covering sales, People finance and human resources has been recruited The commitment and dedication of over 2,000 in China, to lead the development of Devros colleagues at Devro is critical to the groups presence there.
Eleven people completed the Open University Business School Certificate in Management on a course specifically tailored to Devros needs.
The Devro Academy consolidated the groups proprietary knowledge in a programme facilitated by Strathclyde University.
Five people Peter Page completed their apprenticeships in 2013.
Chief Executive Worldwide 20 people are on accredited Site of new plant, February 2014 The investment opportunity In 2014 a new manufacturing hall will be constructed adjacent to the existing facility and new lines will be commissioned during 2015, based on the well-proven and dependable manufacturing technology used at our plants in Europe.
This 40 million investment will improve manufacturing efficiency and is expected to give cost savings of c. 8 million per annum, which will start to come through from mid 2016.
Over the next five years, Devro plans to increase its share of the North American market through a combination of differentiated products and strong customer partnerships.
There will be scope to expand the new plant if justified by market demand.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT IN CHINA Background Chinas economy has grown strongly over the past decade, with increasing demand for many types of protein: beef, dairy, poultry, fish and pork.
As urbanisation has progressed and disposable incomes have increased, the per capita consumption of sausage has grown significantly and it is estimated that half of the global demand for edible collagen casings will be in China from 2015.
This growth in protein consumption has led to the development of many The investment opportunity major food manufacturing businesses in China.
The collagen casings market in China is estimated to have a value in excess of 200 million and has grown by more Devro has been active in China since the early 1990s, than 40% per annum on average since 2002.
Following selling imported product through a Hong Kong sales substantial market research and ongoing discussions with office.
In 2011 a Devro sales company was established current and potential customers, it is clear that there are in Beijing, with a local team that has developed strong attractive opportunities for Devro to gain a greater share customer relationships and increased sales in China.
We expect to achieve this through sales December 2013, Devro registered a new manufacturing of differentiated casings to food manufacturers, as the company in China and land has now been secured in an various market categories, including premium products, industrial development park, in Nantong, near Shanghai, are developed.
for the construction of a new collagen casings plant.
We now have plans to construct a manufacturing plant in China in 2014 and expect lines to be commissioned during 2015 for production in 2016.
The priorities will be to ensure that local raw materials can be successfully converted into quality casings, and to establish a local management team capable of expanding the business in the future.
Edible collagen demand in China Growth of more than 40% pa on average since 2002 This initial investment provides the necessary infrastructure for the future and is expected to provide an internal rate of return of 13% as the business attains sufficient scale to operate efficiently, and the ability to supply larger volumes enables us to develop valuable customer partnerships.
We would expect substantial growth in earnings from this market in the long term.
Additional debt funding will be sought in the first half of 2014 to fund this investment in China.
