About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Alcohol in society About this report Our approach and performance CEO Global Commitments to Alcohol in society Creating a more positive role for alcohol in reduce harmful drinking society means encouraging adults to make Alcohol has been part of social responsible choices about whether, when, and We reached a further milestone in and cultural life around the world how much to drink.
We believe that efforts to our long-standing efforts to promote reduce the misuse of alcohol are likely to be for centuries.
As the worlds responsible drinking in October, most effective when government, civil society, leading premium drinks when we and 12 other industry individuals and families, as well as the industry, work together.
leaders made a set of commitments company, Diageos much-loved To that end, Diageo is one of 13 leading to combat alcohol misuse.
brands are enjoyed by millions global producers of beer, wine, and spirits, every day, and were committed taking action on new commitments launched In October 2012, at a global conference in October 2012 to reduce harmful drinking.
organised by the International Center for to ensuring they are enjoyed These commitments build on long-standing Alcohol Policies ICAP, Diageo was one of 13 responsibly.
Tackling alcohol efforts by the industry, and provide a leading global producers of beer, wine, and co-ordinated response to support member misuse is the right thing to do: spirits to launch new commitments to reduce states in implementing the World Health harmful drinking.
These CEO Commitments it helps our consumers celebrate Organizations WHO global strategy to reduce provide a co-ordinated industry response to life today and tomorrow, while the harmful use of alcohol.
support member states in implementing the Different cultures have a range of views WHOs global strategy to reduce the harmful supporting our long-term on the role of alcohol, and some people make use of alcohol.
a choice not to drink alcohol at all.
We The CEO Commitments will be recognise and respect this choice.
We also implemented over five years from 2013, and all acknowledge that some people should not participating companies will report progress drink as a matter of their own safety and annually, which will be audited by a third party.
This includes children and young They cover work in the following five areas: people under the legal purchasing age, Reducing underage drinking pregnant women, people who cannot Strengthening and expanding marketing control their drinking, or those who have a codes of practice specific medical condition where drinking Providing consumer information and isnot advised.
responsible product innovation Some people drink too much and cause Reducing drinking and driving harm to themselves and others.
Reducing Enlisting the support of retailers to reduce alcohol misuse is a priority for Diageo and we harmful drinking.
are committed to playing our part.
We focus on three areas: This co-ordinated response builds on the three Communicating about alcohol Global Actions on Harmful Drinking that responsibly and promoting rigorous Diageo and 12 other major international company and industry-wide marketing beverage alcohol producers launched in 2010. standards These focused on areas highlighted in the Tackling alcohol misuse by supporting WHO strategy: reduce drink driving: improve effective programmes with a variety of marketing self-regulation: and address partners, which seek to raise awareness and non-commercial alcohol in lowand middlechange attitudes and behaviour income countries.
Much of this work continues Advocating effective, evidence-based and has benefited from independent policy which is culturally sensitive and does evaluation which concluded that the initiatives not result in unintended consequences.
were highly efficient and effective, and that the overall impact of the work is already significant, This year marked the close of our target given the short timeframe of implementation.
While we did not fully complete every target, we are nonetheless pleased with our progress over the past three years.
We will assess the appropriateness of meeting the few outstanding items that remain as part of our efforts to establish new company-wide targets.
The targets we will hold ourselves to inthe future will help support the new set of commitments we recently established with other industry members to reduce the harmful use of alcohol.
Performance against targets Achieved Off track On track Not achieved Impacts: Alcohol in society 21 A history of responsibility ICAP activities, from research and development to Communicating about Initiatives Report marketing, promotion, and packaging.
It alcohol responsibly Diageo and the industry have a long history of includes, for example, a requirement to direct taking action to tackle alcohol misuse, and the our marketing only at adults, and not to Tackling alcohol misuse and Global Actions and CEO Commitments build present moderate consumption or abstinence promoting sensible drinking are on that work.
In October 2012, ICAP published negatively.
We review the code every 12 to 18 responsibilities shared by many a report that demonstrated the serious role of months to ensure it addresses evolving issues stakeholders.
But when it comes to alcohol producers in working to prevent and in the marketplace.
The report stated that communicating responsibly about the alcohol industry had sponsored some Digital Code of Practice its products, we believe the industry 3,600 initiatives over several decades, with an Complementing the DMC, this code sets should play a leading role.
increasing focus on lowand middle-income out 10 principles for digital marketing.
It also showed efforts by the alcohol include ensuring that marketing is directed Our approach industry to identify best practices in the United at adults over the legal purchasing age, and Not only do we take seriously our own States and Europe and adapt them in a monitoring user-generated content.
Last obligations to market our brands responsibly culturally sensitive manner to countries in year, we refreshed this code and delivered a to adults, we also work in partnership to drive Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
company-wide training course for all relevant common industry standards.
Three principles marketers and third-party agencies.
This year, underlie our approach to establishing rigorous we continued to train new trainers on standards for marketing and helping this code.
consumers make informed decisions about We believe that the alcohol drinking or not drinking: Supporting industry codes Following our own codes industry has a collective We believe that the alcohol industry has Supporting industry codes reputation if one player acollective reputation if one player does Making clear and accurate information does the wrong thing, we all the wrong thing with regards to promoting available to consumers to help them make stand to lose the trust of the and marketing its products, we all stand to responsible choices.
lose the trust of the public and regulators.
Assuch, it is in all our interests to set rigorous Following our own codes industry standards, and work to establish Diageo has two codes governing marketing industry compliance.
standards: the Diageo Marketing Code DMC, We manage our business with strict and the Digital Code of Practice, which observance of all local regulations and laws, together cover all media.
Our aim is for all our including those governing marketing.
We marketing to comply fully, and we track this via strive to abide by industry selfor co-regulation an online tool that governs all our marketing codes in markets where they exist, and we campaigns.
In 2013, 99.72% of our marketing work with others to establish them where they complied.
While this is an excellent do not.
Since 2008 more than 20 new national achievement, we nevertheless continue to responsible marketing codes for alcohol have aspire to total compliance through enhanced been introduced.
Almost all of our top markets by value have an advertising code.
In the United Arab Diageo Marketing Code Emirates alcohol advertising is prohibited so Governing us, and the third parties with we do not have a code.
In Cameroon there is whom we partner, the DMC is our mandatory no code, so we are working with local partners minimum marketing standard.
It applies across to establish a strong industry standard.
all our markets and guides every aspect of our Performance against target: following our own codes Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Diageo marketing to be 100% compliant with 99.7% the Diageo Marketing Code DMC Performance against target: supporting industry codes Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Effective industry self-regulatory or co-regulatory 38 codes in place in our top 40 countries by value 22 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Alcohol in society About this report 1 Complaints about advertising upheld by industry bodies that report publicly 2013 DISCUS and responsible marketing Industry complaints In November 2012, Diageo joined industry Country Industry body upheld Complaints about Diageo brands leaders, government officials, and media Australia Alcohol beverage 16 0 experts from Facebook, Google, Twitter, advertising code Neilson, and Comscore at the annual best Ireland Advertising Standards Authority 1 0 practice media summit of the Distilled Spirits for Ireland ASAI Council of the United States DISCUS.
This United Kingdom The Portman Group 1 0 included a day focused on compliance with Advertising Standards 23 0 the DISCUS Code of Responsible Practices.
Authority ASA The session reviewed consumer trends United States Distilled Spirits Council of the 1 0 and featured innovative techniques and United States DISCUS technologies to moderate user-generated 1.
1 July 2012 30 June 2013. content on social media, as well as new tools to verify the age of users on social media sites such as Twitter.
Performance against target: making information available to consumers Breaches of self-regulatory codes Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Five industry bodies publicly report breaches Responsible drinking reminders RDRs 100% of their self-regulatory codes, and this year included in 100% of above-the-line advertising material Diageo was not responsible for any breaches.
com included on all renovated The industry bodies that monitor these 96% Spirits and readyand new brand labels self-regulatory codes do not impose fines: to-drink products nevertheless, removing the offending 90% Beer products marketing can be a costly lesson for any company.
Further consequences include 45% Wine products reputational damage and, in some instances, additional controls, such as being subject to mandatory pre-clearance for future DRINKiQ advertising.
Diageo promotes responsible drinking through the DRINKiQ website and courses.
Making information available to Available in nine languages, with 22 specific consumers country pages, DRINKiQ.
com aims to raise To make responsible choices, consumers need the collective drink IQ by increasing public clear and accessible information to be readily awareness of the effects of alcohol.
Our Diageo Alcohol Beverage aim to broaden understanding of alcohol Information Policy DABIP stipulates that we issues and share tips for responsible drinking.
provide consumers with the right information This year, a diverse range of stakeholders to help them make sensible choices.
The policy trained with DRINKiQ, from hospitality requires all new product launches, packaging industry trainers and students, to traffic Media in Da Nang city, Vietnam, publicising an anti-drink driving campaign renovations, and promotional packaging police, bus drivers, members of the lifestyle changes to include the following information media, and sports clubs.
on the primary packaging: Our country-specific efforts included Responsible drinking reminders holding DRINKiQ workshops in Nigeria as part Allergen information of a wider Plan Ahead responsible drinking Alcohol by volume campaign, which targeted media and A link to DRINKiQ.
com, our responsible entertainers with the responsible drinking drinking website.
message in the hope that those in a position of influence would help to raise awareness of An internal compliance audit conducted as the dangers of drinking too much, especially part of DABIP found that some of our wine when driving.
In the United Kingdom, we brands are putting DRINKiQ information on developed a tailored course which is being their websites, rather than on the label.
We will delivered to train 720 professional cricket rectify this as we refresh and reissue our policy players on DRINKiQ principles.
Thailand, traffic police participated in our We also publish nutritional information on courses.
In Vietnam, we trained 1,000 bus packaging where such information is required drivers, while in Australia, through our by law, and in countries which ban alcohol partnership with the National Rugby League websites, so that consumers will always have over the last seven years, we have raised access to the information.
awareness of responsible drinking among 2,500 young adults entering professional sports, including 300 this year.
