A message from Paul Walsh, Chief Executive until 30 June 2013 In my final introduction to our Sustainability & Responsibility Report, I am proud to point to many accomplishments that Diageo has achieved thanks to the tireless commitment of our people.
As Diageo continues to grow and evolve, I am confident that my successor, Ivan Menezes, will build upon these successes and progress our work in support of creating long-term value.
Among the most basic and essential elements This is another key element of our strategy, and of running a sustainable company is a I am delighted to see developments in water For Diageo, earning the trust of all our commitment to health and safety wherever we efficiency at many of our sites in addition to stakeholders is central to our business strategy.
I was deeply saddened that, despite the a 21% reduction in water wasted at waterAt the heart of our success in driving consistent efforts of many employees across the business stressed sites since 2007.
I am also encouraged top line growth and margin expansion are to improve our safety culture, four people by innovations such as the new, less waterpeople all over the world.
From the farmers lost their lives at work this year.
Safety must be intensive, cassava-based beer that we who grow the grains we use in our brands, our number one priority and fatalities at work launched in Ghana.
and our own employees, to the customers are simply not acceptable.
Our sympathies Skills and empowerment particularly who sell our products and the consumers who go to their families, and we are committed to for smallholder farmers and women in our love them, we benefit from the partnerships redoubling our efforts to ensure that everyone value chain were other elements that we create.
We also benefit from working in goes home from work safe every day.
stakeholders prioritised as important for us to stable, growing economies.
That means Given the changes our business has address.
Empowering people through skills having relationships of mutual respect been through over the last few years, this year development has been at the heart of our withgovernments, non-governmental we refreshed our approach to sustainability community investment strategy since 2006, organisations and community members who and responsibility.
We interviewed more than when we launched our Learning for Life help ensure that we and other multinationals 40 stakeholders to understand their social programme in Latin America.
This programme can contribute in a meaningful way.
and environmental concerns for our business has helped more than 88,000 people progress This year we were honoured to have been and industry, taking stock of our changing or launch their careers, and after talking with named Britains Most Admired Company by geographical footprint and any new students this year in Miami, it was moving to UK business magazine, Management Today.
implications for our Sustainability & see the impact that Learning for Life continues We also received many other sustainability Responsibility Strategy.
awards in different parts of the world.
Together We were reassured that our stakeholders We have much to be proud of this year in these recognise our people, who have worked believe that our programmes are going in building a sustainable and responsible, as well hard to earn the trust of all those whom our the right direction.
Our research confirmed as a profitable, business.
I know Ivan shares my business touches.
the belief that we can and should play an commitment to serving our stakeholders, and During my 13 years as chief executive of important role in communicating about I believe Diageo is well placed to address the Diageo, ensuring that our company is a trusted alcohol responsibly and tackling alcohol challenges and opportunities that lie ahead and respected member of society has been misuse.
I believe industry collaboration is as it continues to grow around the world.
very important to me, and I am certain that our animportant element in this work, which approach to sustainability and responsibility iswhy, on behalf of Diageo, I signed the CEO has been essential in earning this trust and Commitments to reduce harmful drinking.
This approach, aligned with our values, Water stewardship, particularly in is also a core component of delivering our communities where access to clean water is financial performance because it facilitates limited, was also identified as an important Paul Walsh ourlicence to operate, secures our supply of responsibility of our company, our agricultural Chief Executive raw materials, generates business efficiencies, suppliers and others in the industry.
until 30 June 2013 and motivates our people.
