Chief Executives statement It is a privilege to take on the role of Chief Executive of Diageo.
On behalf of the entire Diageo team, I would like to thank Paul Walsh for his exceptional leadership in shaping Diageo to have such a strong global position.
Diageo is well positioned with outstanding brands, broad global reach and financial strength.
Since Diageo was formed, we have built an outstanding position in the United States, the worlds most profitable market, and have acquired attractive positions with local leaders in the emerging markets where our brands will appeal to the affluent and the emerging middle class.
We have development, my ambition for Diageo that is respected for its sustained made substantial investments in route remains unwavering.
I am determined performance and for the trust that all to consumer, innovation, supply, shared that we should sustain top tier stakeholders can place in it.
services and capabilities to enhance the performance among consumer products sustainable growth of our company.
I am also determined that While we enjoy this strong position, we should deepen our reputation by our future is about ensuring we are set becoming increasingly trusted and up to deliver sustained performance in respected by customers who can share Ivan Menezes a rapidly changing world.
Consumer in our success, by consumers who will Chief Executive companies are entering an era in which be delighted by our brands, by investors demographics and consumer trends are who are confident in our ability to deliver changing far more quickly than ever what we say and by communities who before.
Our opportunity at Diageo is to value us as good citizens.
ensure that we build on our strengths, Diageos future success will be while staying agile and adaptable, to measured not only in the value we As we enter the next compete effectively and enhance our create but also in the way we do it.
I look phase of development, reputation in a more demanding world.
forward to leading a fantastic team, my ambition for Diageo As we enter the next phase of 28,000 strong, to create a company remains unwavering.
Our business model How we deliver value for our shareholders Our strengths Drive sustainable To deliver our medium and responsible performance term goals Leading brands combining Our industry leading Faster organic net sales growth heritage and innovation capabilities 6% CAGR in the medium term Marketing Route to market advantage Sales Organic operating margin Supply improvement through scale Management 200bpts by year ending 30 June 2014 Global balance across developed Our flexible operating model Eps growth and emerging markets Agility and scale Double digit growth in core eps Outstanding, diverse excluding exceptional items Our financial discipline and talented people and the exchange impact on operating profit Performance summary 11
