Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chief Executives overview Well positioned to continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Overview These locations have received approximately In the 10 years since flotation, operating 1.6 million of capital investment already, profits have grown on average by eight per with a further 2.0 million 2.5 million cent per annum and earnings per share has earmarked for 2014.
I am pleased with increased by an average of 16 per cent per the performance annum.
Over the same period, an initial This has translated into operational of the Group.
investor at 2.30 per share would have had performance in line with our expectations, approximately 140 per cent of that amount supporting the rationale presented to returned in cash and still be holding an shareholders at the time of acquisition.
investment worth approximately 4 times Key points their initial investment assuming a current Continued investment across our share price of 15. core business The Yew Acquisition has Whilst the acquisition of Yew and the Return integrated well.
This has all been achieved against a backdrop of Value were significant transactions for the The core business has of high and improving customer service, good Group in the period, I was determined that performed strongly.
staff retention and careful investment.
we should not lose focus on our core business, which has delivered the majority of growth Our objectives are Our performance in 2013 for the Group in past years.
I am pleased with the performance of the Group, with underlying operating profits As such, we have continued to invest in our increasing 13 per cent and each operating infrastructure and our people.
This has division performing well in the year.
Underlying delivered excellent client service and earnings per share increased 15 per cent to operational results.
Our people integral to our success The recent acquisition of Yew Holdings Limited I regularly receive letters of thanks from Yew or the Yew Acquisition has expanded grateful families which we have had the See Marketoverview: p. 06and p. 07 our presence in the North of England and offers privilege of looking after at such a difficult See Our strategy and business exciting opportunities for the Group.
These remind me of the integral part model: p. 08 and p. 09 pleased with its progress since acquisition.
our staff have played in our success in the See Operating review: p. 22 to p. 27 last 10 years and their crucial role in our The additional issue of new bonds in July and future.
I am delighted that we have been able subsequent Return of Value to shareholders to acknowledge this by paying a discretionary demonstrates our continued efficient use of bonus equivalent to 1,000 for each full our balance sheet.
time member of staff in recognition of their dedication and contribution to the Groups The integration of Yew strong financial performance.
Every business we acquire is important, with significant energies used to ensure each A strong platform for growth one is operated and integrated successfully.
Our strategy is simple: prioritise client service: The 58.3 million Yew Acquisition represented manage our operations efficiently: expand our the largest such challenge for the Group in portfolio of funeral and crematoria locations: recent history, with 40 funeral locations, two and gain new clients through the sale of crematoria and approximately 200 employees pre-arranged funeral plans.
We also seek to joining us.
maintain an efficient balance sheet.
We will continue to follow this path in the year ahead.
I am very pleased with the way existing staff and new staff have worked together Our clients do not choose us by chance.
to ensure the business has been welcomed, Three quarters of the families we serve integrated and subsequently managed, in have used us before or choose us because of a manner that has maintained their local recommendation and reputation.
and recommend us because of the quality of service we provide and because they consider us good value for money.
