Directors Report Business Overview Group Chief Executive's Statement Launching the KNOWHOW brand two years ago gave us I have now had my first full financial year in this role and I am pleased to report that we have made a lot of good a great opportunity to create something special for our progress.
There remains much to do, but I am blessed with customers a connected brand delivering all the services that people need throughout the life of their product, but a strong team, and am proud of the way in which all of my colleagues have continued to improve the business for our most importantly doing it really well.
There is no doubt that we are reaping, and will metrics, KNOWHOW is delivering for customers and it continue to reap, rewards for our shareholders as a result.
is growing strongly in the fledgling added value services market.
When I took over this role, I identified that there were three things which we needed to do: Our colleagues in store have benefited from our comprehensive training programme that allows them to be genuinely knowledgeable on all the latest product 1.
Drive a successful and sustainable business model for developments, so that when customers come in to a modern, multi-channel customer.
our stores they can be sure they are getting the very 2.
Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group best advice.
Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European All of these things have meant that we can work scale and knowhow.
with suppliers in new and exciting ways.
The newest technologies can be bewildering and we do an important These are discussed in more detail in the Strategy section job for our suppliers in showcasing and demonstrating of this report and by focusing on these we have delivered, them to our customers.
We bring our suppliers products and we believe we will continue to deliver, improved cash to life in store and we are not shy of recommending those and EBIT returns.
that we think are the best through the Our Experts Love programme.
In many of our markets we are the only people In the UK & Ireland division the work carried out over who can deliver this hands-on experience and, increasingly, the last few years to improve the business is now really both our suppliers and our customers are showing us, starting to bear fruit under Katie Bickerstaffes strong tangibly, that this is valuable to them.
I am convinced that we have now built the most economically sustainable specialist electrical multi-channel In Northern Europe we have a very strong business.
It retail model in Europe, if not the World though we still is market leader in all its Nordic markets.
With a lean have much to do.
A key part of this is a core belief that we operating model and a reputation for good customer do not have our customers by right, but that we have to service, it delivered a 4% return on sales in the year.
earn the conversation with them every single day through We have a new, and very capable, management team great service and great prices.
Our customer satisfaction in place under Jaan Ivar Semlitsch, our Managing and advocacy ratings are at all time highs and, though Director of Northern Europe, and we can see a number we will never be satisfied until we never make a mistake, of opportunities to improve the business further with with 93% of people saying that they would recommend better information systems, customer measurements us, we are definitely making progress.
We are maintaining and standardised operations.
The fundamental business extremely high service standards with our two man delivery model and priorities are very similar in the Nordics and teams and our call centres.
At the same time we continue we are starting to share our operating model more than to drive our prices so that we are getting more and more ever before.
competitive with all of our competitors in all channels every day.
The competitive position of our Nordic Group is very strong in all of its markets but we anticipate that there will be some We continue to reshape the store portfolio with our 2-in-1 competitive activity this year.
However, we will continue to stores of which we now have 198 making a real difference take any action necessary to make sure that we continue for customers as well as delivering significantly improved to win and I am confident that the Northern European economics.
We continue to push our thinking on how to business will continue to deliver good returns.
make our shops even more exciting, and during the year we opened a new store concept in Solihull that delivers In Southern Europe we have made good progress in another step forward in creating a place for customers to stabilising the businesses which continue to operate in very experience the best electrical products, get great advice tough economic environments and competitive markets.
and be inspired by the incredible new technologies that Mario Maiocchi, Managing Director for Southern Europe, are emerging.
Whether it be a simple kettle, or the latest has been relentless in driving cost improvements and high definition 3D Smart LED television, our job is to make stabilising the profit performance of the businesses.
buying it easy, fun and confidence-inspiring.
Learnings from Solihull will shape our stores going forward, but we will also continue to push thinking with new future-store ideas during the coming year.
We now give customers a fully integrated and seamless multi-channel experience.
Customers typically research online before buying a brand new computer or television, but invariably also want to experience the product before they buy.
We make the internet into a powerful friend by giving people a great experience both on-line and in store with every possible shopping option available to them.
Dixons Retail plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Business Overview Group Chief Executive's Statement continued Our balance sheet is stronger than it has been for some In Greece we have a very good business with a powerful brand and market position.
Our priority is to continue to time and I am very pleased with the cash performance of the manage the business there with a tight control on costs Group which was as a result of excellent work in managing our working capital position.
This year, our 2012 bonds and focus on serving the customer while waiting for the economy to stabilise.
I am confident that as and when reached maturity, as did a substantial currency hedge the economy in Greece starts to improve we will return to taken out many years ago, and we repurchased a number enjoying good returns out of Kotsovolos.
In Italy we are a of our 2015 bonds through issuing new 2017 bonds.
The relatively small player in a very fragmented market and we fact that these new bonds were extremely well subscribed are actively looking for ways to put our business there on reflects, I think, the improving perception of Dixons Retail a more solid strategic footing which may take some time.
as it emerges from its restructuring over the last few years.
I am confident that we now have the right, smoother, maturity In the meantime, we have been focusing on constantly improving the customer experience we won the mobile profile on our borrowings.
Our strong cash generation means phone retailer of the year this year while the team have that we can see a clear path to eliminating the external sources of finance from the Group over the next three to four been very aggressive in keeping a tight rein on costs.
Our joint venture business in Turkey operates in a dynamic years and in due course to start to reward shareholders for market, however it is one that is now very crowded in our their support and perseverance over the last few years.
space and we anticipate quite a lot of structural market In the year ahead there are many new products coming change there.
to market, including even better quality televisions with Our troubled single channel operation in France, PIXmania, the introduction of OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode and ultra high definition.
Digitisation and energy efficiency has been a primary focus for me.
Having taken full control of the business in August 2012 we put in place a new continue to drive developments in white goods.
With the management team and embarked on a restructuring plan main computer operating system platforms from Google, that removed a substantial proportion of the costs, but most Microsoft and Apple all looking to grow their market shares, importantly stopped activities that were a drain on the core we are uniquely placed for these brands to help customers business.
We remain focused on putting the business on a understand the features and benefits of each and to help firmer financial footing.
them choose which one is right for them.
While these are all exciting shorter term developments we continue to look Across the Group we have some very successful and at how our markets will evolve in the years ahead.
We have strong operations with many exceptional people doing some fantastic opportunities in content and added value great things every day.
I am keen that we share the best services as we continue to develop our services model practices in each and every one of our businesses to under the KNOWHOW brand.
ensure we fully exploit the benefits of being a Group.
While it is still early days, I am pleased to say that we have As we look forward we remain focused on doing what is right for the customer, improving our stores, our services already started to see some good practices being shared.
For example Our Experts Love model is a refinement of and our financial performance.
the model we use in Elkjp, KNOWHOW has launched It remains for me to give a huge thank you to all my in Greece, Italy and Denmark and will be rolled out to all of our Nordic region Megastores this year.
Over Peak we colleagues who have worked so hard over the last year, introduced a number of products across Europe which in some cases in difficult environments.
I am extremely enabled us to offer our customers some great deals.
I am proud of them all and know that I can rely on them for their continued support in the year ahead.
keen to see just how far we can develop this alignment of our businesses over the next few years and I look forward to sharing with you our progress.
In almost all of our markets we have seen competitors disappear, both big and small.
While we are seeing the benefit of capacity exiting our markets, we cannot be Sebastian James complacent.
Our place remains shoulder to shoulder with Group Chief Executive the customer ensuring they get great products and services every minute of every day no matter how they choose to shop.
Dixons Retail plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
