17 Strategic report Development and performance of the business The Group operates its business worldwide.
Primary segmentation is by geography in three principal regions Americas, Europe and Asia Rest of World.
The Group has a number of subsidiary In the context of our general growth strategy, Sales growth by location of customer in main companies, including some that undertake our European goals are to achieve growth in European countries product development and manufacturing and volume of equipment sales year-on-year while others that are sales and service channels.
increasing our aftermarket revenues at least 2012 In addition, we are represented by a network inline with growth in the installed base 2013 of distributors across approximately 140 ofequipment.
Our distributors typically have exclusive rights to sell our products in their In 2013, equipment revenues from customers designated geographic markets.
located in Europe increased by 8 per cent compared to 2012, with approximately 30 per Alongside the Domino brand, which cent of sales being made to the developing comprises approximately 90 per cent of economies of Southern and Eastern Europe.
total Group sales, we operate a number of Aftermarket revenues from customers specialist businesses selling under their own located in Europe increased by 7 per cent.
brands into particular areas of the market.
In addition to growing revenues in coding and United France Germany Rest of Kingdom Europe Performance by geography marking applications date codes, batch codes Europe etc.
in the digital printing business, we made In Europe, the Group operates direct sales first sales of the N600i colour label press this businesses in the UK, France, Germany, Benelux, year, installing seven systems for customers Particular highlights in the European Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and Sweden.
Other in Benelux, France, Germany and the UK.
business this year were: territories are covered by distributors, most w Strong growth in Germany, driven in part with exclusive rights to represent the Group There has been a 0.6 percentage point by the sale of systems to local OEMs for in their respective country.
reduction in gross profit margin overall in our export into Eastern Europe and Asia subsidiaries located in Europe over the year.
w First installations of the BK652 TIJ ink Western Europe is a more mature market This is primarily a result of the investment we digital label press for coding with a large established installed have made in production facilities and capacity w Successful introduction of a high base of equipment, whereas many of the in our digital print manufacturing operation performance mineral oil free ink developing economies of Eastern Europe in anticipation of growth in the volumes of responding to the changing materials continue to experience capital investment and presses we will sell in 2014 and beyond.
used in outer case coding.
Economic conditions have been relatively weak in most parts of Europe Profitability of our European subsidiaries is in the past 12 months, although there are influenced by the location of a number of Our key goals in Europe for 2014 include: some signs that customers plan to increase our manufacturing sites which ship products capital investment activity in 2014.
Legislation worldwide from their European base.
Profit w Growth in new equipment with particular remains a key driver of investment among our share between manufacturers and sales emphasis on the pharmaceutical sector customers and one of the current initiatives businesses is in line with normal arms-length and FMD in Europe is in the pharmaceutical sector, the rules: regions such as Europe, where a w Increase in sales of the Groups latest Falsified Medicines Directive FMD.
FMD significant proportion of our manufacturing i-Tech product range with service requires all drugs manufactured in Europe is undertaken, enjoy higher profit margins free functionality to be uniquely identified at pack level to as a result of including those profits made enable authentication at point of prescription.
in European entities on inter-company w Increased penetration of the label This will require significant investment in sales of products made to subsidiary printing market with the newly launched coding and data management systems by the companies in other regions.
In 2013, the N610i colour ink jet digital press.
We total segment result in Europe, before onehave developed solutions able to meet these off exceptional costs, was 56.6 million, requirements and believe our reputation and an increase of 9 per cent on prior year.
experience in delivering similar applications within the industry and other sectors positions us well to capitalise on the opportunity.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21.1m 22.0m 19.4m 20.9m 25.5m 30.3m 62.3m 64.5m 18 Development and performance of the business continued Americas We made good progress in sales in North Sales growth by location of customer in main The Group has sales subsidiary operations in America in 2013.
Equipment revenues from Americas countries Canada, the USA and Mexico and sells customers located there increased by 12 per through an extensive distribution network cent and aftermarket revenues by 6 per cent.
2012 throughout Central and South America.
Equipment revenues were bolstered by strong 2013 sales of our new i-Tech products coupled The North American market is highly with first sales of the full colour digital press.
developed and contains many of the largest multinational manufacturing companies Our strategy in Central and South America is operating in the sectors we serve food, to focus on supporting and developing our beverage, pharmaceutical, etc.
Market drivers distributor network, enabling sales to larger include legislation and industry mandates.
multinational accounts where global Inparticular, adoption of the Food Safety relationships are important.
We do not seek Modernisation Act in the USA in 2011 has to compete for the very low price business increased demand for product traceability that is prevalent in some countries.
USA Rest of North Central and South andauthentication systems.
America America Sales in Central and South America in 2013 Market conditions in North America have were 11.0 million, 7 per cent below 2012. been more positive throughout 2013 The main shortfall in sales was attributable to Our goals for 2014 include: than those in Europe, with published difficulties in Brazil and Argentina where weak average GDP growth rates indicating that economic performance and specific fiscal w Further increase in penetration of i-Tech consumption levels have increased.
Our control measures affected performance.
We product range business tends to respond to improving remain committed to developing our sales in w Development of multinational account GDP as manufacturers increase their this region but our growth opportunities are business output and consequently increase use of being hampered by external factors and the coding equipment and consumables.
low price environment that has developed as w Increasing sales of the new N610i digital a result.
The position in Central and South America has been more mixed.
Political, economic and Profitability in our American subsidiaries is Asia Rest of the World ROW fiscal issues have restricted trade in some below levels achieved elsewhere in the Group.
In recent years, Asia ROW has been the countries and we have seen reduced This primarily reflects the smaller fastest growing region for the Group.
Our investment among many customers.
manufacturing footprint of the Group in direct presence in China, India, Korea and the America compared to Europe and Asia, but in United Arab Emirates is complemented by Our strategy in North America is to focus on 2013 also reflects additional investment we highly competent distributors across all larger opportunities that allow us to build our have made in new resources to support the developing markets in Africa, the Middle East infrastructure and increase our market digital print business.
Gross profit margins and South East Asia.
We also operate through coverage.
Our investment in TEN Media, improved by just under 2 per cent in the year.
made in 2011, was one such opportunity.
TEN The Americas segment result in 2013, before Media was established to supply compliance one-off exceptional costs, was 4.5 million, in Coding and marking requirements continue systems to the US egg industry, meeting line with prior year.
to grow across the region, partially as a requirements to ensure safe supply chains for result of adoption of new legislation and shell eggs sold in retail markets.
TEN Media Particular highlights in the American standards and partially as a result of the has not delivered the progress we anticipated business this year were: growth in the middle classes and hence but the investment was made based on the consumption.
GDP growth in most markets w Strong growth in revenues in the USA size of the opportunity and the exclusive right is running at mid to high single digits, a good of supply we negotiated to help improve our w First sales of the N600i digital press indicator of potential for our business, and position in this key market.
w Progress with TEN Media was our customers have, by and large, maintained disappointing.
investment despite the more difficult conditions they have faced in export markets largely Europe and North America.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47.2m 53.9m 17.6m 18.2m 11.9m 11.0m 19 Strategic report The largest markets in the region are China Profitability in our Asian subsidiaries reflects Sales growth by location of customer in main and India.
These are also the Groups top two our strong market position and the benefits of Asia ROW countries markets for new equipment sales by volume.
It also reflects the The competitive position in Asia in particular aggressive price environment and increasing 2012 is different to other regions with more small cost of doing business in markets where 2013 local suppliers present.
Customer retention annual wage settlements are typically in rates those customers who continue to buy excess of 10 per cent.
The net result for this consumables, spares and services from us segment of our business in 2013 was 13.5 after the original equipment sale are lower in million, 2 per cent below prior year.
this region than elsewhere in the world and it is one of our priorities to win back customers Particular highlights in the Asian and increase our aftermarket sales.
ROW business this year were: w Return to double digit growth in China Our strategy in Asia is to continue to expand our market coverage and further develop and w Success in the pharmaceutical sector as grow capabilities in our sales channels.
This is China India Rest ME Africa certain local markets adopted drug of Asia underpinned by our direct operations in authentication legislation China, India and Korea where we maintain w Early success with the introduction of market leading positions.
We also operate an digital print products into Asian markets constant programme of cost reduction.
Our extensive network of highly experienced through our Graph-Tech business.
factory operations are responsible for order distributors, providing access to many of the fulfilment and customer focused logistics.
Our goals for 2014 include: The Group has manufacturing operations in We have manufacturing operations near New a number of locations in Europe, America Delhi in India serving the local market, and in w Introduction of the extended i-Tech CIJ and Asia ROW.
The principal sites are Shanghai in China where we manufacture and product range in Cambridge, UK, which is the main supply printers and consumables for both the w Further penetration of TTO, responding manufacturing hub for ink jet products: in local market and the broader Asian region.
in particular to the growing use of Liverpool, UK and Gurnee, USA, which are During 2013 we opened a new support office flexible packaging our two main fluids manufacturing operations: in Singapore reinforcing our commitment to in New Delhi, India and in Shanghai in w Development of digital print opportunities.
growing our sales in the region.
We manufacture laser products in Hamburg, Germany, Print and Apply Label In 2013, our equipment sales to customers Operational performance Machines in Malmo, Sweden and digital located in Asia ROW increased by 6 per cent Group manufacturing strategy is printing products in Egliswil, Switzerland.
when compared to prior year and aftermarket summarised as make to order, ship direct sales increased by 9 per cent.
Our business in to customer.
This approach means we Over the past 15 months we have invested China has grown its sales by 11 per cent, need an engaged supply chain with supplier 1.5 million in development of a new factory reflecting a return to a more stable economic partners undertaking a high degree of near New Delhi, India to support growth in environment after the volatility of 2012.
Our make to order our Indian business and, in September 2013, more fragmented competitor position in philosophy enables us to offer short lead we took on an additional nearby facility China in particular means there are a large times and to respond to specific customer creating increased space for manufacturing number of smaller companies vying for requirements despite supplying a very at our Cambridge site.
To allow for future business.
This can and does, in some cases, broad range of product variants.
expansion, the Group has obtained planning have an impact on market prices for permission for an extensive development equipment and as a result we continue to see Our process starts with product design, and increase in space at its headquarters in downward pressure on our average selling developing products based on platforms Cambridge but at this stage no decision has prices.
Sales mix and price effects have that provide for common parts and ease been taken on implementation.
reduced equipment gross margins in the of assembly.
Our Group Sourcing function region by approximately 3 percentage points works closely with a relatively small but when compared to 2012.
This has had the experienced supply base to ensure quality, effect of reducing gross profits by 2.1 million.
flexibility and timeliness of supply alongside a Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37.6m 41.9m 18.1m 18.5m 29.4m 31.1m 22.0m 23.4m 20 Development and performance of the business continued During 2013 our operational priorities Product developments in 2013 included a new Acquisitions New business areas have included: range of Thermal Transfer V-Series printers: a Developments in digital ink jet technology new, feature rich i-Tech CIJ printer, the are creating opportunities for the Group to w The introduction of new fluids and printers A420i: the K600i monochrome digital press utilise its capabilities, expertise and global and the seven colour N610i digital label press.
network in new areas of the market.
One w Integration of our new digital printing Fluids launched included a new yellow of the most exciting developments is the businesses Graph-Tech and PostJet into pigmented ink designed to provide durability transition from traditional printing techniques the operational infrastructure and reliable coding onto dark substrates and a to digital ink jet in a number of commercial w Planning and implementing additional plant black UV ink for use in the digital print sector.
In response capacity to support our growth plans to this, and as a part of our growth plans, w A number of business process excellence We have also made progress with the roll-out we are developing new products and adding projects improving capability and of elements of our platform printer sales and support capability to cover a responsiveness of our network.
QuickStep is the user interface number of digital print applications.
The platform that we have designed to simplify most developed to date is that of full colour During the year there was a major fire use and improve operating efficiency and label printing.
Label printing typically involves at a third party off-site storage facility QuickDesign is a coding automation software printing high quality images onto a variety which was holding significant inventory platform supporting all printing technologies.
of materials which are then converted into for our core product lines.
We were These were introduced across a number of labels for application to packaged products able to immediately implement our preproducts in 2013 with more to follow in 2014. during the production process.
This is an prepared disaster recovery process which application we consider to be adjacent to our functioned well and allowed us to recover An area we have focused on in our Research core business today, but has the potential to the situation with no significant disruption and Development activities is sustainability.
overlap by merging the printing of fixed and to our customers.
Our people and suppliers We continue to develop ink products variable data directly on to the label stock.
all responded exceptionally well and the based on safe materials that allow our Changes in consumer behaviour coupled with outcome helped reinforce the quality of customers to reduce waste and energy use.
the constant need to improve cost efficiencies our risk management processes.
Losses Improving ink reliability and extending shelf are creating a requirement for a greater were insured and recovered in full.
life means less waste and more efficient variety of labels, shorter print runs and, in processes for our customers.
This focus some cases, personalisation: all of which are Our operational goals for 2014 include: on sustainability carries through to our among the Groups core competences.
This year we have integrated w Technology transfer of our i-Tech products a life cycle analysis tool in the design Digital label presses are increasingly from our Cambridge operations to those in process to ensure systematic consideration being used by Printers to complement Delhi and Shanghai of all aspects of the products life.
their traditional printing presses, enabling w Further investment in capacity for our them to offer increased flexibility to their digital printing business as we anticipate We maintain an active programme customers, the same product manufacturers acceleration of growth in demand of technology watch and work that are primary customers of the Group.
with partners, often making small Our relationship with these manufacturers w Projects aimed at further improving our investments to explore new technologies is helping establish our position as a operational network productivity.
applicable to coding and printing.
strong and capable supplier of digital printing solutions with label printers.
Research and Development Priorities in 2014 include: The Group invests approximately 5 per cent The Group has been a supplier of of revenues in Research and Development w Further investment in digital printing monochrome printers to the label printing each year.
One of our key strategies and technology and product range extension market for a number of years.
In late 2012 priorities is to maintain a strong, innovative and subsequently in 2013 we introduced w Continued development of the next product range which we aim to build upon our first full colour label printers, the N600i generation CIJ printer range based on our through regular updates and improvements as and N610i digital presses.
These N-Series common platform architecture well as new products.
In addition to our presses along with the monochrome w Development and launch of new printer range, we focus on developing new K-Series range were developed by Graphtechnologies to further enhance our fluids fluids with enhanced end user properties, Tech, a business Domino has partnered portfolio including a broader range of UV responding to changing customer needs and with in product development for many inks for digital printing.
other developments in packaging materials.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21 Strategic report years, culminating in the acquisition of the Our key goal for 2014 is to sell and install 25 how we are doing and to understand what company by the Group in 2012 for a total full colour presses during the year.
is important to their working experience.
GraphOver the last 12 months the results Tech is based in Switzerland and is now the TEN Media have continued to indicate high levels of Group technology centre for digital printing, The Group made an investment of $50 million engagement and motivation among all staff.
providing latest generation ink jet integration for a 15 per cent stake in TEN Media LLP for the label market and a number of other TEN in 2011.
The business was established One of our largest centres for staff is in the emerging ink jet markets served via OEMs.
with the objective of selling coding based UK where we were recognised recently with compliance systems to the US egg industry, a Skills Investment Award by the Engineering A capital investment of 1.6 million has been meeting legislation backed requirements Employers Federation EEF.
We provide made during 2013 in a new demonstration promoting disease prevention and safety in a range of on-the-job and formal training and development facility for the digital the supply chain.
As a part of the investment, opportunities aimed at promoting and print business in Cambridge.
This facility Domino secured exclusive rights to supply developing everyone in the Group.
Our will enable customers to see our digital TEN with coding systems.
The business was own web-based training system provides a presses in operation, run print samples at an early stage of development when we common language, the Domino values, our and allow further development of the made the first investment and despite good culture and set of organisation goals and is product range.
We have also invested in progress with the technology and successful fully accessible across the Group enabling manufacturing facilities in Switzerland, in implementation of a pilot system, the company Domino employees to achieve their full additional sales and project management has not yet commercialised its products and potential and contribute to Dominos success.
people in America and Europe and have has indicated that it has insufficient funds to added colour management and digital print do so.
As a minority shareholder, we have Providing a safe working environment expertise to our central UK based team.
decided not to invest further, at least until for all our employees is one of our major commercialisation is proven.
The management objectives see KPIs.
In the past two Our plan for 2013 was to install 10 full colour of TEN indicated early in 2013 that it intended years we have focused on best practice presses in the first year.
This has been to raise new capital but has not done so to health and safety management systems achieved and there are further orders placed date.
In the absence of progress and with no and are pleased to note a decline in the for installation during 2014.
We have recently certainty that progress can be made, we have number of accidents reported since 2011. introduced a new variant, the N610i which taken the decision to write down the value of includes a seven colour option compared to the investment in TEN to nil.
This is reflected We are committed to equality and four colour in the N600i, further extending in our 2013 Income Statement.
Despite this diversity in our workforce and in addition the appeal and capability of the product.
action, we retain shareholder rights and to employing people with a wide mix of the exclusive supply arrangement between ethnic and cultural backgrounds, we also A further area in which we are expanding our TEN and Domino remains in place should have a good balance between genders.
digital printing business is in the postal market.
the business be able to make progress and Postal operators are under pressure to commence a commercialisation programme.
Gender mix across the business is as follows: reduce costs and improve efficiency through automation, including the use of coding People Number of Number of female staff male staff alongside visual recognition sorting systems.
In The Group employs over 2,400 people 2012, the Group acquired PostJet Systems across the globe.
Our aim is to provide a safe Board 0 8 Limited, a UK based business with proven, and engaging environment for all employees Senior market leading ink jet coding products.
where they can fully develop to achieve management 3 4 their potential and share in our success.
Management 61 285 Our strategy in digital printing is to expand our core offer through products such as the Our aim is to attract, develop, motivate and Rest of workforce 460 1,596 K-Series monochrome digital printer and the retain employees by providing a competitive PostJet range, increase penetration of the package of rewards and benefits, monetary Total 524 1,893 labelling market with the N-Series digital label and non-monetary which promotes team press, and leverage our ink jet integration working across functions and the Group.
We expertise with growth of new applications in conduct employment engagement surveys package printing and other related areas.
in most parts of the Group twice per year where we ask employees for feedback on Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
