Chief Executive Officers review Key highlights Group like-for-like sales growth 6.5% 1 2012 : 4.2% UK & ROI E-commerce sales 28.2% 1 2012: 44.0% Delivered on time 82.8% 2012: 83.4% I am delighted to be able to present the Boards strategy and these results in my role as Interim Chief Executive.
Whilst I have been in the business for a relatively short period of time, I have got to know it well.
I am excited by what I have seen and opportunities for the future.
Our strategy The greatest strength of the Dominos business is the simplicity and profit before tax and exceptional items reached 55.2m, an increase clarity of our strategy: we aim to be the number one pizza delivery of11.6%, with Group adjusted diluted EPS growing by a very business in our markets through a commitment to offering the best satisfactory8.6%.
product, service and quality to our customers.
This excellent result was offset by the higher than anticipated 7.0m loss We have a very strong network of franchisees who execute the strategy in Germany along with significant one-off costs and impairments, which locally.
At Dominos we support them with: isthe one disappointment of the year.
an efficient, low-cost supply chain to help drive down costs: The Group opened 57 new stores in 2013 2012: 69 and the Group now operates 858 stores in total across four markets.
innovative product development: As at 29 December 2013, the Group had the following franchised and world-class marketing and e-commerce initiatives: corporate owned stores in the Territories: audits which maintain standards: and Corporate Corporate Franchised owned Franchised owned property management, including new store development.
as at as at as at as at 29 Dec 2013 29 Dec 2013 30 Dec 2012 30 Dec 2012 We have a highly developed and successful business in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
We have the opportunity to develop a strong position UK 775 2 727 in Germany and Switzerland, where, although our operations are very ROI 48 48 immature, we are rapidly gaining experience.
Germany 15 8 7 11 Switzerland 10 12 As you can see, our focus on these areas in 2013 has led to record adjusted profits in 2013 for Dominos.
In the core UK and Irish markets, Group total 838 20 782 23 12 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements UK UK contribution to system sales growth In 2013 the core UK business has grown at a rapid pace with the strongest growth achieved in Q4.
Overall sales hit record levels, 12.1% with a new highest-ever Dominos Pizza UK and Northern Ireland 8.4m 608.8m 20.1m sales record week in December of 14.1m, with mature stores 12.1% 7.0% averaging weekly sales of 20,903.
The like-for-like performance LFL 1 across the year was 7.0% 2012 : 5.2%.
Excluding the impact of 2012: 543m split stores like-for-like sales were up 9.2%.
543m The strong UK performance cannot be attributed to one single initiative, rather an extensive programme of activity which has 2012 Mature Immature New 2013 made positive contributions.
stores stores stores The UK has seen a 4.1% growth in order count which is especially pleasing.
It is a great barometer of positive consumer satisfaction with our offer.
An increase of 1.2% in the items per order reflects UK Like-for-like sales decomposition a success in bundling offers to give better value and target family meals more successfully.
We were particularly pleased to see growth in the dinner segment 1.7% 570.25m part of the day, again a reflection of our success in bundling meals 1.2% 7.0% 4.1% for families, to include starters and desserts.
2012: 532.9m One of the biggest changes in consumer activity in recent years 532.9m has been the impact of digital technology and the use of new devices for ordering goods and services.
Dominos has been at the vanguard of these developments and we see consistent growth 2012 Order Items Price 2013 in electronic orders from customers.
count per order mix Improved reliability and stability of our platforms has been the bedrock of this performance and I am delighted that we have seen up to 23 orders per second transacted on our site.
Growth driven by daypart Building on this bedrock is the ease of use and navigability of our website, as well as the opportunity provided for innovative Lunch Lunch Dinner marketing campaigns, which offer our customers a wider menu Late of products.
Dinner Late We now have over 4.2m permissions to email customers 2012: 3.0m, allowing us to target them directly with marketing messages.
2013 saw our first foray into the world of high-end digital content with the production of The Support Group, a football-themed sitcom that was hosted on our own YouTube channel.
2013 LFL growth The programme proved a massive success and has been watched by 1.2m people to date.
Customers who watched the programme were 15 times more likely to go and purchase from us than they were before.
UK mature store product growth In 2013 we also launched our first-ever Dominos Blog, created to house both video and static content, to improve our search 2013 performance and provide a hunting ground for customers looking 112.4m LFL growth for a deal.
We continue to engage, entertain and educate our social media fan base and have done so with more personality than ever before, consequently Dominos in the UK now has 912k fans on 106.6m Facebook 2012: 747k and 173k followers on Twitter 2012: 68k.
We participated in Global Dominos Week this year, which offered Dominos customers across the globe the chance to obtain 50% off 2012 Beverage Dessert Pizza Starter Wraps 2013 when they participated in the promotional mechanic on Facebook.
We also partnered with Twitter this year to understand how Twitter can be used more effectively to amplify our spend in traditional TV.
Continue reading the This has driven out some great insights which will shape our social Chief Executive Ofcers media strategy going forward.
review on pages 20 to 22 To read our principal risks see pages 23 to 26 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 47.7m site visits in 2013 23 orders per second 19m UK online orders Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Passionate about service Q&A with our Sales and our growing digital world Marketing Director Simon Wallis What kinds of content does Dominos produce on the web?
We are increasingly idea centred and media agnostic in our thinking.
We will start with thecustomer, their needs and At Dominos we recognise that, in a competitive requirements but it is our solution and our creative idea that marketplace, being able to offer an engaging user brings this life.
It could be a video served on YouTube or via experience has become a key reason why customers our blog, an in-game app as we did when we sponsored choose to buy from us and to recommend us to others.
theXFactor App last year, production of new programme Our marketplace has very rapidly gone digital, and content like The Support Group, a conversation on social we have embraced new opportunities to connect media channels, orjust fantastic photography that has with consumers using social media channels such people salivating over their digital device.
as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
As we establish Which digital channels do you use toengage our digital presence, we have focused on building with customers?
user relationships based on fun, entertainment We have a number of paid, owned and earned channels and shared experiences.
where we look to engage, entertain and educate customers about Dominos.
Be that traditional display advertising, In 2013 we launched a blog to strengthen our social media orour own blog, YouTube channel, social media platforms, presence, bringing together and sharing our content, email and afliate partners.
including posts, widgets, downloads, games, competitions, Are they helping you to reach newcustomers?
This concentration of We use our own channels to engage with our existing content has enabled us to optimise our rankings with customers to drive their frequency.
However, paid channels internet search engines, making us more visible to users and afliate partners are increasingly used to prospect for through online searches.
We are also now using innovative new approaches to What are the risks to being out there on social media, convert our online followers into customers: user profiling and how doyou manage them?
on social media channels allows us to deliver targeted We have a clearly dened tone of voice, an understanding online display advertising campaigns more cost-effectively of what is on brand and what is off brand.
This is shared than through traditional methods.
Last year we were one amongst agency partners and any creators of content.
of the first UK brands to start using Facebook as a way of This reduces the risk of getting it wrong.
We also have a responsive service to any customer-related complaints, and delivering highly targeted advertisements to users who it is important for us to advise them that we take their issue had previously visited our website.
By offering tailored seriously and will respond as soon as we can.
promotions we are able to give our digital followers a good reason to convert their initial interest into a purchase.
912,000 Facebook fans Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 Passionate about product fresh, natural ingredients Our new store design, Project Star, takes its inspiration from our fresh, natural ingredients.
We take great pride in the quality of our products and we work hard with our suppliers to make sure that each Dominos pizza uses the best possible ingredients.
This means our customers can be confident that they are buying carefully sourced and prepared foods without hydrogenated fats or artificial flavourings and colourings.
Whether its the 4,000 tonnes of fresh, sun-ripened tomatoes harvested for us each day at peak season, our carefully hand-picked mushrooms or our delicious, stretchy mozzarella, all our suppliers of food ingredients agree to a detailed product specification for the products they supply.
This is reviewed by our food technologist to ensure each product is safe, legal and of consistently high quality.
Suppliers are continually assessed in various ways, including quality checks carried out on delivery, samples sent for analysis and feedback received from stores.
We make our own pizza dough and deliver it chilled, not frozen, to each of our stores to ensure it reaches our customers in great condition.
New Chocolate Twisted Dough Balls 16 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17 Fresh look at store design Passionate about image building our brand through sponsorship Building on our strong track record of sponsoring family entertainment, we were pleased with the performance of both of our 2013 initiatives.
In the UK, we sponsored the X-Factor App, aimed at engaging consumers by adding an extra dimension to the X-Factor TV viewing experience.
The app allowed users to vote for their favourite acts straight from their phones, share opinions in real time, have fun with X Factor-related competitions and games to unlock Dominos offers and, of course, order pizza!
In the Republic of Ireland we sponsored interactive talent show The Hit, a live show format which saw established artists selecting songs by new songwriters that they then competed to turn into hits through a series of weekly chart battle heats in which the song with the most downloads was the winner, culminating in the ultimate hit.
18 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Box design Project Star We also began to look at our store design, with Project Star a new-look image for our stores.
Project Star was designed to increase our brand awareness on the high street, give our stores a more contemporary feel and provide our customers with a clearer vision on where to order and collect their pizzas.
We have changed both the exterior and interior of the store.
Externally, a new, sleek black frontage and internally a feature wall showcasing our fresh products, overhead digital menu screens, a lowered, more welcoming, customer counter and a prominent view of our gallery, enabling customers a window into the world of pizza making.
Every new store opens with this format, with Dominos has always taken great pride in its image.
In 2013, we the remainder of our stores implementing this began to integrate our new logo into the system and this gave us design by 2017.
This modern design ensures a good opportunity to look at our current branding and revitalise it.
that we keep our brand fresh and exciting and it has made a real difference tothe look and We started with our pizza boxes.
We replaced the old logo box with a new brown feel of our stores.
box that incorporates some key brand messages, such as the promotion of our fresh dough and the fact that our products contain no articial colourings, avourings or hydrogenated fats.
Our new box is still 100% recyclable and is made from 80% recyclable material, with the remaining 20% being FSC assured.
Tasty new box designs Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Chief Executive Officers review continued New products encourage anyone to come and take a look at a new store.
It will Our development chefs continue to come up with new and change your perceptions of what a pizza delivery shop can look like.
interesting product ideas to give customers reasons to expand their By 2017 every older store in the Dominos estate will be updated, basket.
In 2013, we continued to build on our fresh dough Stuffed as we work to ensure the business is kept fresh and new.
Crust platform with the launch of Hot Dog Stuffed Crust.
We also This more natural brand image has also been reflected in our new brought out a new range of American Legends pizzas New York packaging design, which not only serves to provide reassurance Deli and The Carolina, which were intended to be a limited time to customers about the quality and provenance of our ingredients, only offer, but proved so popular we decided to keep them on our but does so in our own inimitable tone of voice.
We also expanded our range of sides and desserts this year with the addition of our savoury and sweet Twisted Dough Balls Republic of Ireland range, Spicy BBQ Wings and Chocolate Brownies.
I am delighted with how our Irish business has turned around Our gluten free offering has continued to grow in popularity, and this year.
Like-for-like sales in euros in 2013 were up 6.0% 1 helped us broaden the appeal of the brand amongst families that 2012 : -0.3%, which was significantly ahead of our expectations.
previously ignored Dominos because one or more of the family Encouragingly this growth was driven by like-for-like order count 1 were gluten intolerant.
Now the whole family can enjoy a pizza growth of 1.5% 2012 : -3.6%.
I am also encouraged by the fact meal together.
that growth has been seen across all parts of the country.
Dublin stores are outperforming those in the provincial and country areas, Image but all remain in growth.
We have begun a major improvement of the image of the brand at a store level with the roll-out of our new store image programme, The Irish business continues to migrate to digital, albeit at a Project Star.
In this new design, part of a worldwide brand refresh, slower rate than the UK.
E-commerce sales reached record levels we are making the pizza the star of the show.
Every Dominos in Ireland, now representing 28.2%, whilst mobile now represents pizza is a customised, handmade work of art.
So we are bringing 28.8% of e-commerce sales.
E-commerce sales have grown by 1 the back of house into the front, shining a spotlight quite literally 24.2% 2012 : 33.1%, whilst mobile sales continue to grow, 1 on the pizza-making process, providing a better welcome, taking up 89% 2012 : 171%.
customers on a journey with their pizza from order, along the The success seen across the country has in large part been driven makeline, through the oven, to the cut table and then to the pickup.
by franchisees undiminished commitment, enthusiasm, and There is much better use of natural materials and colours to investment behind local store marketing.
This is when our model reflect the provenance of our fresh product.
The exterior of these really shines, when entrepreneurs passionate about their businesses re-imaged stores creates a far more impactful, confident and start to drive ahead.
This has been assisted by our long-term high-quality impression of the brand on the high street and really commitment to our national promotional strategy.
sets us far apart from the competition.
Were very proud of it and Greatness from Dominos Dominos Pizza created a new campaign born out of a new creative positioning for the brand Greatness from Dominos.
The TV commercial premiered in September and marked a nationwide roll-out of the new Greatness branding across multiple channels including the franchise retail outlets and packaging.
Dominos harnessed, in a memorable and entertaining marketing campaign, allthe great things we do which stands us apart from our competitors.
Essentially great ingredients, great service, great value with great and passionate people dedicated to come to the rescue in those everyday ordinary challenges such as the chore of midweek cooking.
Showcasing all these aspects of the Dominos experience, in an amusing way, gives an emotional connection and a reason to celebrate the individual great moments in their lives with great pizza.
The new campaign featured a delivery driver driving to people across Britain to the theme tune of the 1970s childrens classic Champion The Wonder Horse.
Media planning included high-prole high-audience shows.
20 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2013 saw us return to family entertainment TV sponsorship as we backed the launch of The Hit, a new TV show that set out to find A bit of fun local home grown singer songwriter talent.
The show proved popular with Irish viewers and saw us expand our audience using RTE Raidi Teilifs ireann, as we worked to broaden the footprint of the brand.
We are proud of how we brought this sponsorship to life in TV, on social media, in store and at the live concert venue.
In fact, we won the Best Media Sponsorship award at the prestigious Irish Sponsorship Awards in September.
We were also proud to trial a new promotional mechanic in Ireland, where we asked customers to buy one pizza and another for 1, so we could donate that 1 per pizza to our long-standing Irish charity partner Barratstown.
On the back of some quantitative product work which vindicated our long-standing belief that we make the tastiest pepperoni pizza we communicated this message as part of our marketing campaign for the period.
Germany The global Dominos business is the most successful home delivery pizza business in the world, operating nearly 10,900 stores in over 70 international markets.
These include a mix of both developed and emerging economies.
Germany is the largest consumer market As you know, we have never been a brand to shy away in Europe and the 4th in the world, with established global QSR from being first and having it a bit of fun while were quick service restaurant businesses running successfully in the doing it.
One great example of this in 2013 was the test run of our Our investment into Germany hasnt been without challenges and DomiCopter, which created a worldwide phenomenon resulting teething problems.
Initially, the stores were run corporately rather in15m hits on YouTube and 21.1m mentions on Twitter.
The second than as a franchise, which is the UK norm.
Ambitious expansion was our parody of the BA lookup ad, encouraging customers to look down to see to where the Pepperoni Passion was being delivered.
plans were established before a full understanding of basic store economics had been determined and the early openings were too large, leading to high rental and utility costs.
Overheads are too high given the small number of outlets and we have tested a number of price points during our first few years and concluded that Dominos quality justifies a premium price, as in the UK.
The Board has decided that in order to ensure that we are able to move forward in Germany without any barrier, we should buy out A change of management in 2013 gave the Board the opportunity our minority shareholder at a price linked to business success.
to review and implement a new strategy based on: a move to franchise rather than corporate stores: Switzerland a more modest 2014 opening programme likely to be five stores: Dominos purchased the Swiss business in September 2012, after a decade in which it had lost money and stalled.
All stores are a standard store format with a 150 square metre template: corporate stores.
We made good progress in 2013, growing Like-forstreamlined Support Centre overhead: like sales by 5.4% with pre-exceptional losses of 640k slightly behind where we expected to be.
a new e-commerce platform: and We closed two underperforming stores and identified four new premium pricing with aggressive promotions.
store sites which took more time to obtain leases and consents The summary of this strategy is to ensure a clear focus on storethan expected, but which are now being developed.
It is our level economics.
The implementation of this revised strategy has intention to reach break even in Switzerland by the final quarter resulted in increased losses in 2013 and significant write-offs which of 2014 early 2015. have been taken as exceptional costs.
We expect that losses in Germany will continue for several years until we establish sound and replicable store level economics and achieve a critical mass of stores sufficient to support the overhead.
Thereafter we hope the growth in contribution from Germany will be significant and replicate the progress made in the UK.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 Chief Executive Officers review continued Technology Current trading The year has started very strongly in the UK, with like-for-like Pulse roll-out sales for the first seven week period at 14.6% benefiting from the In 2013 the roll-out of our new point of sale system called Pulse was wet weather and in part from weak comparatives a year ago when completed.
The new system, which is the standard across all Dominos snow and ice impacted sales.
Like-for-like in Ireland of 4.6% are markets, provides a stable platform for our stores.
In addition encouraging and Switzerland is marginally down at -0.4% excluding to being easier to use and hence reducing our training costs, the the two store closures.
In Germany Like-for-like sales are up 3.8% system has a number of powerful features which will improve our and the estate is now in the middle of transitioning across from labour utilisation and provide better control of food costs for the corporate to franchisee ownership, and some sales disruption is franchisee.
The system is fully supported by our master franchisor.
expected there until the stores settle down.
2nd generation mobile applications Mobile commerce is a fast-moving environment and in 2013 we Going forward have replaced all of our core mobile apps iPhone, iPad, Windows We remain focused on delivering our strategy into 2014 and mobile and Android with second generation versions.
The latest beyond and I am excited by the numerous initiatives I see in apps are easier to use, more reliable and ultimately provide a all areas of the business.
better experience for our customers which I am pleased to say By working with the franchisees and my colleagues at Dominos, is translating into significant sales uplifts.
Mobile sales now I look forward to fulfilling my role over the coming months to represent 30.9% of our total e-commerce sales.
progress the Groups exciting growth plans for the future.
New website In a fast-growing e-commerce environment, ensuring that the platform continues to provide a reliable service with ever-increasing David Wild levels of traffic is an ongoing challenge.
In 2013 we have replaced Interim Chief Executive the core engines underpinning our website.
This provides greater 28 February 2014 reliability, fewer errors and means that we can continue to provide very high levels of availability as we grow.
The second phase of this project, which we trialled in our German market towards the end of the year, was a new look to the website.
We expect to roll this out gradually during 2014.
Supply chain The Group runs some of the most highly regarded Supply Chain Centres formerly known as commissaries in the Dominos world.
Two of our Supply Chain Centres hold the coveted 5-star status and the third is 4-Star.
In the UK and Ireland, all three Supply Chain Centres are rated A Grade by the British Retail Consortium.
The highly professional staff in our Supply Chain Centres and logistics teams ensure that virtually 100% of deliveries to stores are made on time, despite all the challenges of weather, traffic etc.
Tablet app Phone app 10.53% 55.16% Total mobile sales of e-commerce 30.9% Phone web 34.31% 22 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
