Drax Group plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives statement Looking back at our achievements:looking forward tothe challenges  A programme ofindependent audits Review of the year Securing sustainable verifies that alloursuppliers comply with biomasssupplies Drax is evolving from its beginnings as our sustainability criteria.
apower station owner and operator Our developments in the US are an Our calculations show that the range of toaGroup producing predominantly important part of our business model.
sustainable biomass materials we have renewable power with activities that They help us to optimise the biomass burnt over the last few years has a low spanthe supply chain for the provision supply chain from North America which carbon footprint.
In 2013, the average ofbiomass generated renewable power isstill in its infancy, but is the main source greenhouse gas emissions were that is sustainable, low carbon, costof sustainable biomass fuel.
The drivers significantly below 79gCO MJ which is 2 effective and reliable.
During 2013, for our upstream investments are the maximum under the UK governments wemade important progress in our twofold: securing the timely delivery framework for sustainability requirements journey to deliver this transformation ofreliable wood pellet supplies to Drax for biomass that are expected to become ofthe Group.
Power Station and consolidating third mandatory in 2015. party andown supplies to secure Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, moreefficient and cost-effective customer oriented power generation delivery logistics.
UK biomass logistics andretail business, driven by biomass innovation.
Our key initiatives in 2013 to Construction of two 450 thousand Initial long-term contracts have been enable us to achieve our vision were: our tonnes per annum wood pellet plants secured with UK port operators to biomass fuel supply business in the US, Amite Mississippi and Morehouse provideus with biomass import facilities.
our biomass conversion project at Drax Louisiana and a port facility at Baton Further contracts are under negotiation.
Power Station, and our programme for Rouge Louisiana progressed well during The development of these facilities is the expansion of Haven Power Limited the year.
All three construction projects on schedule.
Haven Power through growing our are progressing to schedule and budget.
We have concluded our first long-term electricity sales to businesses.
In each of We are targeting the first quarter of 2015 freight contracts at fixed prices.
We were these we made notable progress during for the start of commercial operations at particularly pleased to be able to secure the year bringing us closer to both Amite and Baton Rouge and the second through these contracts good protection achieving our vision and delivering on quarter for Morehouse, with full capacity against future increases in oil-related ouroverriding objective of maximising reached six months later.
freight costs, typically a major component thevalue of the Drax Group.
Aside from our investments to secure of total freight costs.
The first 50 of aself-supply of sustainable biomass, thebespoke biomass railwagons are Earnings wehave made good progress towards operational transportingbiomass from securing near-term volumes of wood the portstothe power station.
Our earnings for 2013 reflect good pellets from suppliers in the market operations and good progress in withmore than 4 million tonnes delivering reliable biomass generation.
Biomass conversion contracted forApril 2014 to March As expected, at 230 million EBITDA is The conversion of our first generating 2015.
We continue our negotiations down on last year 2012: 298 million unit to burn sustainable biomass in place forlong-term volumes.
asaresult of increased carbon costs of coal is proving successful.
through both the cessation of the Sustainability is critical to our biomass carbonemissions allocation under the The converted unit was initially fuelled strategy.
All our biomass, whether in raw EUETS and the introduction of the UK using existing storage and distribution fibre or pellet form is procured against governments carbon price support systems originally built to facilitate ourown robust sustainability criteria.
mechanism in April 2013. biomass co-firing.
Construction of new These include requirements for high bespoke facilities for the receipt, storage greenhouse gas emission reduction andhabitats and biodiversity protection, and distribution of biomass remained on schedule and within budget throughout as well as due consideration for the the year.
From September 2013, we began important socio-economic factors to commission the new systems.
Industry-leading safety performance amidst Secured the first private funding to be Our notable achievements high generation output levels, and significant underpinned by the governments UK for2013 were project and construction activity across Guarantees Scheme.
Drax Group plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2013 Dorothy Thompson CBE Chief Executive Successfully delivered our first biomass Initiated construction of our first two First 50 of the new, bespoke biomass rail converted generating unit with truly woodpellet plants and port facility in the freightwagons fabricated and in operation .
US, with construction well advanced by thefirst new freight wagons to be approved theendof theyear.
inthe UK for over a decade.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Executives statement By the end of the year the facilities were However, we have experienced weaker The contracts provide the necessary fully supporting the first converted unit, performance in our construction certainty to underpin the long-term overcoming many of the expected activities, particularly at two of our commitments required to secure the reliability issues with fuel delivery we construction sites in the US which led to supply chain for sustainable biomass experienced in the first half of the year.
an increase in the total recordable injury fuel for these units.
This includes term This contributed to the improved load rate.
Working with our contractors we contracts for UK port facilities, pellet factor seen in the second half of the year, have significantly increased the safety supplies and overseas logistics facilities, giving a load factor for the full year of 75%.
management and supervision at aswell as further direct investment by Drax these sites.
in the supply chain in the UK and overseas.
Our applications for early CfDs for the Coal-fired generation conversion of two of our units were Retail performance performance successful with the units provisionally Selling our output through Haven Power As in previous years, our load factor at ranked equal first amongst 16 projects.
continues to provide us with a credit- 80% was high compared to other thermal The strike price for these contracts has efficient route to market for our power capacity on the system and we delivered been confirmed as 105 MWh in 2012 sales compared to the wholesale strong generation output for the fourth prices.
Currently, the contracts are electricity market.
It also provides a consecutive year.
With good availability scheduled to become effective, and so goodroute to market for the Renewables and reliability throughout 2013 we were allow the first payments, in April 2015, Obligation Certificates and Levy able to continue to deliver additional subject to EU State Aid clearance.
Exemption Certificates earned when value to the business through providing Against this timetable we are now wegenerate renewable power.
flexible generation output and balancing targeting the conversion of our second and services to the System Operator, National third units to biomass in April 2015 and, During 2013, HavenPower delivered Grid, in support of system stability atthe earliest, the fourth quarter of 2015. another year of substantial growth in a and security.
In advance of these conversions we intend highly competitive market with retail to modify one of our coal units at the power sales 59% higher, involume, than in 2012.
For the year, our forced outage rate, station to operate as an enhanced co-firing Sales growth remains a key priority for which measures any reduction in plant unit from May of this year.
As an enhanced the business.
availability excluding planned outages, co-firing unit it will attract 0.9ROC MWh was 6.8%.
This is higher than our An excellent standard of customer under the Renewables Obligation RO.
In the first half of service is central to our proposition This unit will then be used for the second the year we had a forced outage rate of for this business.
We are a consistent unit conversion in April 2015.
During this period we carried out high performer in the Datamonitor performance tests on our boilers using a During 2014, we will progress the Energy Users survey and have a good wide range of marginal coal material to construction works necessary to support renewals record.
establish the most economic fuel diet.
these conversions as well as the required This resulted in a higher number of plant development of the supply chain, including integrity issues than we would typically Legislative framework further UK port development and the expect.
The forced outage rate in the contracts for difference fabrication in the UK of more bespoke second half of the year was lower and andcapacity market railway wagons.
Our target is for three more in line with our long-term target.
converted units to be fully operational and In December 2013, the Energy Act This has been set through extensive supplied withsustainable biomass through became law.
At the heart of the Act is benchmarking with UK and international a wellsecured supply chain in 2016. electricity market reform, which will see, coal-fired plants to determine the amongst other things, the introduction of Applications for enduring CfDs are to optimum balance between performance be made in the second half of 2014.
Contracts for Difference CfD providing and cost.
long-term contracts and a stable revenue Any units not converted under the RO stream enabling investment in low or the early CfDs will be eligible to apply.
Health and safety The government is currently consulting carbon generating technologies.
on proposals for the contract allocation Electricity market reform also includes Two planned unit outages were the introduction of a capacity mechanism process and budget management under undertaken during 2013, and both were into the electricity market to mitigate the Levy Control Framework which completed on time and to budget without sets the limits on the total amount of future risks to the security of any recordable injuries.
With two outages subsidy available.
and considerable biomass project work activity, the number of engineering The government continues to work on The government plans to award man-hours worked throughout the year its proposals to introduce a capacity early CfDcontracts in Spring 2014. was significant.
Our safety statistics These enable investment in advance of market for electricity.
These have not yet forthe Group continued to be industrythe CfD mechanism coming into force been finalised, but it is our view that the leading, reflecting the emphasis we current designs do not make a compelling and importantly underpin further work placeon safety.
economic case for the Drax coal units.
onour second and third unit conversions.
New and innovative biomass rail receipt, All of Haven Powers customers were Through Haven Power, increased our retail sales storageand distribution facilities in operation successfully transferred on to the new of power for the year by 59% by volume and our and supporting the first unit conversion.
Drax Group plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2013 We believe that there is significant Legislative framework Looking ahead valueto the Group in increasing sustainability criteria As noted above, from May this year one of our ownsupplies of wood pellets.
our coal units will operate as an enhanced In January 2014, the government We are nowmoving forward with the co-firing unit burning at least 85% published the draft RO Amendment development of new sites to establish biomass.
We will use this unit to conduct Order 2014 which includes the additional wood pellet plants in the US.
further research and development into requirement for the Office for Gas and We plan to continue to grow our retail the types of biomass that can be Electricity Markets Ofgem to produce sales through Haven Power, which is on effectively burnt, to develop our optimum guidance on sustainability criteria for track to achieve 1215TWh of annual nitrogen oxides NO abatement X biomass.
We continue to engage with sales over the next few years.
solution on converted units, and to build government and Ofgem on the up biomass supplies for the second unit implementation of these criteria.
During 2013, we arrived at a lead case conversion in April 2015. technical solution to ensure compliance We firmly believe that robust, mandatory with the more stringent emissions During the year we will make further sustainability criteria are vital to maintain standards of the Industrial Emissions investments in improving the and enhance public acceptance, and Directive from 2016.
The solution involves performance of our biomass units.
ensure that sustainable practices are low NO burners on all six units, selective X Through these investments we are implemented.
Together with five other non-catalytic reduction SNCR confident that we will now be able European biomass users we are involved technology and more selective coal todeliver capacity to the grid from in the work of the Sustainable Biomass procurement.
We will trial SNCR and low aconverted unit of 630MW burning Partnership which aims to establish NO burners on one coal unit and our X standard biomass.
This is only 15MW and manage a biomass assurance enhanced co-firing biomass unit during lessthan when fuelled with coal.
At this framework to demonstrate that solid this year to verify our analysis.
output our efficiency rates will be just biomass is derived from legal and 0.5percentage points less than coal sustainable sources.
As we move from being a coal-fired efficiency rates.
This ismaterially better generator burning some biomass to performance than we originally expected become anintegrated Group sourcing Carbon capture and storage reflecting further technical progress biomass, generating renewable electricity and investment.
Together Drax, Alstom UK Limited and and selling it to business customers, BOC a member of The Linde Group have the commercial structure of the Our overall target is to achieve a capacity formed the project company, Capture Group willchange.
As we progress this of 645MW using standard woody Power Limited Capture Power.
transformation we will remain committed biomass.
We have already demonstrated In December 2013, the government to developing in parallel the optimal that we can achieve this higher output awarded Capture Power a Front End capital structure for the Group.
under special conditions when using Engineering and Design FEED contract particularly high calorific sustainable We are confident that this transformation for its planned, state-of-the-art 426MW wood pellets.
will deliver an attractive future for the carbon capture and storage CCS business and our shareholders.
It will In March this year, we expect to have demonstration project the White Rose alsodeliver a significant amount of two domes, half of our new 300,000 CCS Project.
The FEED contract also cost-effective renewable power to UK tonne biomass storage facility, fully includes the planned development of a consumers and make a meaningful operational.
We expect the full capacity carbon dioxide CO transportation and 2 contribution to the UKs 2020 climate to be operational in the third quarter.
storage solution the Yorkshire Humber change targets.
We anticipate that the Port of Hull facility CCS pipeline tobe undertaken by will be fully operational in March 2014 National Grid.
and the Port of Immingham by the end The award of the contract marks a major of the year.
In the second quarter of 2014 next step in the UK CCS Commercialisation we envisage there being 100 biomass Programme.
The FEED study is a two-year railfreight wagons in operation.
programme of detailed engineering, At the earliest, we now expect to convert planning, commercial and financial work Dorothy Thompson CBE our third unit in the fourth quarter of to finalise and fide-risk all aspects of the Chief Executive 2015.
The initial load factor for this unit proposal ahead of taking the final 18 February 2014 will depend on biomass supply chain investment decision and proceeding to development.
We are moving forward financial close and the commencement with the engineering designs, planning of construction.
and biomass sourcing strategy for the The project will be dependent on conversion of a fourth unit and would successful outcomes from external hope to be able to progress the funding processes and electricity market investment decision on this unit as soon reform mechanisms to incentivise low as the regulatory position is clear with carbon technologies.
Developed an optimal solution for Applications to the government for early Together with our Capture Power partners, compliancewith the Industrial Emissions CfDs for two biomass unit conversions wona two-year FEED study award under Directive, not based on selective catalytic provisionally ranked equal first amongst theUKgovernments CCS Commercialisation reduction technology.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
