Chief Executives review We remain focused on close operational management, while investing confidently in the future growth of the business.
Highlights Continued market share growth now market leader 14 new superstore openings including two relocations and one reopening 80% growth in multi-channel revenue Continuing investment in infrastructure to underpin future growth Evolution of Dunelm brand Theres no place like Dunelm 6.9% Market leading share of the UK homewares market 12 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information The business remains highly cash generative, readily funding the capital requirements associated with our growth as well as allowing a 14% year on year increase in the level of the ordinary dividend for the year.
In addition we have been able to announce a special dividend totalling 50.7m to be distributed to shareholders in October 2013.
This reflects our ongoing approach of periodically distributing surplus cash to shareholders.
Nick Wharton Chief Executive Strategy development We have continued to make good progress with our four strategic priorities.
Priority 1 develop our specialist proposition Overview Against the background of continued pressures on the The UK homewares market is estimated by Verdict Research to be worth approximately 11bn.
As market consumer throughout the last financial year, the business delivered a robust trading performance and made leaders, our key differentiator is industry-leading choice, offering quality products over the broadest price good progress against both its operational and strategic objectives.
This is supported by strong availability, customer convenience through an established multiWe remain focused on close operational management and channel proposition and friendly knowledgeable service.
on enhancing our customer experience, while investing confidently in the future growth of the business.
This Our range and choice are complemented by exceptional investment, consistent with our four strategic priorities, value for money at all price points together with strong centres on the further strengthening of our specialist brand representation.
The Dunelm brand, with its core proposition, while at the same time increasing scale attributes of trust and value, is applied to the majority of through store portfolio and multi-channel expansion.
In addition we stock a number of key owned brands including Dorma, Hotel and Reflecting the benefit of a particularly strong store Spectrum alongside major proprietary brands such as opening programme over the last two financial years, our Fogarty, Tempur, Kenwood and Brabantia.
total revenue for the year increased by 12.2%.
Within this, like-for-like sales calculated by comparing stores which Our broad price architecture is mirrored across each of have traded throughout the last two financial years grew our core categories and creates a proposition that is by 1.7% as we continue to gain share in a market which we attractive to a very wide customer set.
This positioning believe to be broadly flat.
During the year we opened 14 has continued to help preserve existing footfall and attract new superstores, including 2 relocations and the new customers during the past financial year.
The Dunelm reopening of our Coventry store after a major fire in 2011. offer ranges from our entry price position, which competes with products offered by grocers and discount Our growth has meant that during the past year we have multiples but at a higher quality, through a number of become, according to Verdict Research, market leader mid-market options, to our highest quality products which for the first time with a share of 6.9% of the UK are comparable with offerings in department stores and homewares market.
higher-end independent retailers but at keener prices.
Disciplined inventory management and continued We continue constantly to evolve our offer to ensure it progress with direct sourcing delivered a 40 basis points remains contemporary, fresh and relevant.
Through two expansion in gross margin year on year.
With operating seasonal refreshes we change approximately 25% of our costs growing slightly ahead of sales, reflecting our ranges each year: while Special Buys and Miss It Miss Out ongoing investment in the customer proposition as well as MIMO promotions emphasise Dunelms value building capability across the business for longer-term credentials and provide a seasonal feel to the store.
growth, our operating margin remained at a similar level to We have a clear opportunity to build further awareness of the previous year, at 15.7%.
During the year, in addition to increasing our presence in the national press and growing our social media activity, we invested in our first full catalogue.
Our initial 200 page edition was distributed to 700,000 people in autumn 2012 and proved extremely effective in showcasing the breadth and authority of the Dunelm product offer.
We followed this with a spring catalogue and plan to build on these successful investments with a larger autumn 2013 catalogue which will have a distribution of one million copies.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 13 Chief Executives review continued Our next phase of investment in brand awareness Our Dunelm At Home service, through which customers incorporates an evolution of the current Dunelm branding.
can select bespoke, made to measure curtains and other This evolution aims to communicate Dunelms range window treatments via a free home consultation, is now authority across all homewares categories and to highlight available from 30 stores, with a further phased roll-out our strengths in value, convenience and service.
We are planned over the current financial year.
Customers of this introducing a new primary strapline of Theres no place service are rightly demanding and we invest significantly like Dunelm, migrating to the more user-friendly domain in the training and development of our home consultants name of www.
com and will remove our traditional to ensure good levels of customer satisfaction.
Mill suffix from across the business.
Research has shown Priority 2 expand our store portfolio that these changes will be positively received by both Dunelm trades from two store formats.
The bulk of the existing and new customer groups.
The new strapline in portfolio comprises out-of-town superstores, with our particular is seen as a better reflection of our customers average new store footprint now targeted towards 30,000 emotional connection with the home.
We will use this square feet of retail space.
This space enables us to offer evolution in our branding to increase brand awareness and over 20,000 homewares products with the depth of range introduce Dunelm to a wider group of homewares and availability that customers expect from a specialist shoppers through our first significant TV advertising retailer.
It also accommodates a Pausa coffee shop, now campaign.
Subject to performance in pilot, our planned present in92 stores, providing an additional reason for investment in this campaign will amount to approximately customers to visit and increasing their engagement and 3m over the current financial year.
In addition to superstores, we also trade Excellent customer service, a high quality in-store profitably from nine smaller high street locations where experience and differentiating services are all important in there are currently no suitable out-of-town alternatives.
ensuring that our overall customer experience meets the In the last financial year we again opened over 400,000 promise of the Theres no place like Dunelm campaign.
square feet of selling space through 14 new superstores During the last financial year, we invested across each of two being relocations and one a reopening taking our these dimensions, foremost of which was a significant superstore chain to 126 stores at the year end, providing customer service training programme for store colleagues 3.8 million square feet of selling space in total.
This has been funded largely by new stores are contractually committed.
Following a reassigning colleague time in-store from non-customer detailed catchment analysis process completed in 2011, facing tasks which we have been able to eliminate or which sought to incorporate the impact of the anticipated reduce through better processes and systems.
Initial growth of our multi-channel sales, we believe our mature results are pleasing in terms of both customer satisfaction, UK superstore portfolio will consist of approximately 200 where our net promoter score hit new heights after stores.
the completion of the training and external recognition where Dunelm ranked very positively in the most recent Our new stores continue to deliver strong returns on annual survey of customer service undertaken by invested capital with the average expected discounted Which?
payback for stores opened in the last three financial years being approximately 28 months.
We will continue to target Our Window Treatments offer spanning fabrics, readythe majority of our new store openings to achieve made and made to measure curtains and blinds is a discounted cash flow payback of 36 months.
However, as category that relies on high levels of expertise, service and our portfolio becomes more mature our investment customer interaction.
During the year we have criteria will need to reflect some cannibalisation of successfully developed and piloted a new, more intuitive revenues from existing stores and going forward we and interactive system, to support our made to measure anticipate that a proportion of new stores perhaps service and this will be introduced to all stores this autumn up to 30% will be targeted to achieve payback in up ahead of our peak window treatments season.
Our refit programme covered 14 superstores this year, of which 4 were major refits.
The programme is designed to improve the shopping environment in our existing stores and to create a more consistent customer experience in terms of space allocation and department layouts.
14 Dunelm Gr Dunelm Group plc oup plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 B Bu us siin ne es ss s ove over rv viie ew w B Bus usiin ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st tat ate em me ent nts s Company information As a result of this continued investment our portfolio is Following a successful trial of extended inventory highly contemporary with 42% of the superstore chain within furniture, we are targeting further web exclusive either new or having benefited from a major refit over the ranges and will apply our enhanced e:marketing and past three years.
promotional capability to drive awareness of both core and extended ranges.
Priority 3 grow multi-channel In common with trends elsewhere in UK retail, Dunelm Priority 4 develop and exploit our infrastructure customers are embracing the convenience and value of Focused investment in our business infrastructure across multi-channel shopping with a significant proportion of IT systems, distribution facilities and people resources is a shopping journeys now involving some element of online key contributor to Dunelms continued success and this activity browsing, research or purchasing through our continued in the past year.
Investment in our IT systems has enabled us to improve The last financial year saw continued investment in both stock control, make in-store processes more efficient and, through the upgrade during the year of our till systems, website development, to enhance the customer experience, and in digital marketing where returns remain has enabled a better customer experience when they pay for their goods.
The project to upgrade our enterprise attractive.
Our Reserve and Collect R&C proposition, which links our store stock files to the web in real time, wide SAP system is progressing well and is expected to be completed this calendar year.
enables our customers to check availability and order from over 16,000 products.
This was further enhanced The capacity and capability of the Group has been further during the year to provide for same day collection.
R&C strengthened by targeted recruitment including a Chief customers, who represent approximately a third of Information Officer who joined the business at the start of multi-channel revenues, pay for their reserved products the current financial year.
Meaningful headcount increases on collection in store creating a clear opportunity for made in our buying, supply and space management teams add-on or incremental sales in store.
have enabled us to develop product range options such Development of the core website included the redesign of that the best performing products within each category our homepage as well as key product pages where can be matched to each individual store based on their customers land following an internet search.
We have overall space and configuration.
This development will also introduced Paypal as a payment alternative and continue in the current financial year, helping to create a optimised our site for tablet users in response to the rapid more consistent shopping experience for our customers increase in the number of customers accessing our site and reducing our lifecycle exposure to discontinued from these devices.
Developments such as expert guides, inventory.
better recommendations for complementary products Summary and outlook and enhanced alternative images also ensure that our Dunelm delivered robust trading results over the year, in a website stimulates interest, communicates our expertise demanding retail environment.
We have strengthened our and provides added value.
specialist proposition, improved customer service in-store As a consequence of all of the above, our multi-channel and increased the profile of our brand.
Each of these, revenues continued to grow strongly, representing over together with our traditional product strength, has enabled 4% of revenues over the full financial year and us to increase sales on a like-for-like basis.
We have also approximately 4.5% in the final quarter.
made good strategic progress scaling our business through new stores and multi-channel and strengthening our Our next targeted development will materially improve infrastructure.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their speed and choice within our home delivery offering hard work and commitment in achieving this.
where, despite strong progress elsewhere, our proposition remains below benchmark and therefore provides a clear While recent economic data, particularly the volume of opportunity for further improvement and revenue growth.
housing transactions, may suggest some improvement in The transfer of our fulfilment operation to a scalable consumer confidence, a degree of caution in relation to the facility that will enable us to hold stock of approximately broader UK economic environment remains appropriate.
20,000 lines, each available for next day delivery, is Furthermore, the unusually warm summer weather has had a progressing well and is anticipated to be fully operational temporary dampening effect on recent trading.
prior to peak winter trading.
With strong plans in place to improve brand awareness and While, as outlined above, significant enhancement of our to grow Dunelm further through new stores and multichannel expansion, we remain confident in the future multi-channel model has been possible on our existing web technology platform, our pace of development is prospects for the business.
Combined with our very strong financial position, this enables us to pay a special dividend restricted due to the configuration of the current software.
Accordingly, we have initiated a programme to upgrade equal to 25p per share as well as proposing an increase in the ordinary dividend in line with earnings.
the platform and expect this to be completed during the second half of the current financial year, representing a capital investment of 45m.
This replatforming will deliver a more customer-friendly website as well as Nick Wharton allowing future developments to be achieved over shorter Chief Executive lead times, thus enabling more frequent introductions of 12 September 2013 improved functionality to our customers.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 15
