Group Chief Executive s review This has been a year of significant change for the Group.
We implemented a new global operating model and evolved to a common global strategy.
These developments will enable us to strengthen our competitive advantages and increase the rate at which we gain share from our numerous smaller competitors GOING 12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review MARKET SHARE INTERNATIONAL SALES CAGR Development, 2006 2013 6 Electrocomponents International competitor 1 5 International competitor 2 3% 4 International competitor 3 International competitor 4 3 6% Small local regional competitors 2 3% 1 0 Market Share Sales growth gains CAGR c. 30bn market size Nominal GDP growth weighted to Electrocomponents geographic split Weighted for exposure to faster electronics growth There are five large international high service distributors, including MARKET OVERVIEW AND MARKET ENVIRONMENT Electrocomponents, and together this group has around 15% of the available global market: as the leading player, our market share Market overview is around 4%.
This group has been gaining market share from The high service distribution market caters to the small quantity smaller distributors.
Over the last seven years we have grown our needs of electronics and maintenance engineers and machine and International sales by an average of 6% per annum.
We estimate that panel builders.
Our average customer order value is around 140, the markets in which we operate have grown on average at 3% per and this order is typically for three to four individual product lines.
The remaining 3% per annum of sales growth represents A customer will usually order different product lines each time rather market share gains, principally from smaller competitors.
than make repeat orders of the same products.
Demand is similar across the world customers want a broad range of high quality We believe that our customer proposition and global scale and reach stocked products in small quantities with reliable delivery.
The internet give us an advantage over the numerous small local and regional has become the dominant channel for customers to do business distributors against whom we primarily compete, allowing us to take with us, though providing a multi-channel service remains important market share from them.
Moreover, many of our smaller competitors as many customers still prefer to use a catalogue and phone or fax nd it dif cult to obtain credit in tough economic times and therefore to place orders, often in conjunction with the internet.
cannot develop their product range or eCommerce capabilities, creating an opportunity for large global competitors such as We estimate that the available market is worth around 30 billion ourselves to gain share.
globally, split evenly between electronics and maintenance products.
The electronics market has, on average, grown at around twice the Market environment rate of GDP.
The electronics cycle is more volatile than the economic The market environment during the past year was challenging, cycle because spending on new technology innovation can be quickly re ecting the uncertain economic conditions in many of our larger halted and then re-started, as occurred during the last year.
The markets across Europe, North America and Asia Paci c. maintenance market grows at around GDP but is less volatile than the electronics market.
The manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices PMIs in all of our major markets except the US were at readings at or below The marketplace serving this demand is highly fragmented, being 50 for much of the year.
This is indicative of a at or contracting populated by a large number of small local and regional distributors.
manufacturing sector in these countries and led to a challenging Electrocomponents, through its brands RS Components RS and environment in which to sell maintenance products.
Despite this Allied Electronics Allied, is the worlds leading high service our maintenance sales grew by 3% in the year, which we believe distributor.
RS is the leading distributor in the UK, Continental Europe outperformed the maintenance market as a whole.
and Asia Paci c, while Allied is in the top three in North America.
Trade associations from the electronics distribution industry, such as the Association of Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC and the National Electronic Distributors Association NEDA, reported declining activity levels from their members during the year.
The volume electronics distributors have also reported signi cant declines in sales during 2012.
Within that context, we believe our electronics sales decline of 2% indicates that we have outperformed the electronics distribution market as a whole.
Whilst we believe that we have taken market share during the year, the dif cult trading environment at this point in the economic cycle resulted in a greater use of discounting in order to retain and attract customers, particularly in the first half of the year when our gross margin reduced by over 1% point.
As expected, our gross margin improved during the second half of the year, with the rate of decline reducing to 0.3% points, re ecting the actions we took to improve our discount effectiveness and the initial rollout of a targeted price differentiation strategy.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201313 Group Chief Executives review continued Medium-term performance framework: key performance indicators 1 Historic Performance 2013 Actual Medium-term Target 2 4% pa 0.5% 5% 8% pa Group sales growth 4 3 Group return on sales 7% 10% 8.4% 9% 11% 3,5 15% 25% 19.3% 20% 30% Return on capital employed 3 Free cash ow as a % of sales 3% 8% 4.5% 4% 6% 1 Performance between 2006 and 2013 2 Underlying sales growth, adjusting for trading days and currency movements 3 These are headline measures of pro tability and cash ow which are fide ned as the relevant reported pro t cash ow before reorganisation costs cash ow 4 Reported Group return on sales adjusted to re ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix 5 Headline operating pro t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt Following an extensive review of how to maximise our ability to STRATEGY UPDATE capture the bene ts of being a large, global company we have, during the last year, transitioned from a country-based structure to a global Building on our proven 2006 strategy operating model that is functionally-based but which retains the value In 2006 we established a strategy focused on five key initiatives.
This comprises three operational functions Since then we have invested behind this strategy and transformed the Sales, Marketing and Offer comprising the Groups product and Group, increasing sales by over 400 million.
We have now identi ed stock management, pricing and supply chain activities, and four clear opportunities to build on these initiatives to deliver further support functions Strategy, IT, Finance and HR.
Each function is progress and improve our financial performance.
being run by an existing member of our highly-experienced International growth: Our International business has delivered 6% per management team.
This move to a global operating model involved annum sales growth since 2006 and taken market share.
We have the removal of some duplication within the business and has identi ed opportunities to gain market share faster by adopting a delivered annualised ef ciencies of 7 million.
single global approach to serving our core customer groups.
The new global operating model has enabled us to evolve to a Develop two strong offers: We have built a strong electronics offer common global strategy.
We believe that this will allow us to capture through investment in over 100,000 new products since 2006.
We the signi cant opportunities identi ed above to build on our 2006 also delivered good growth from our maintenance offer, particularly strategy.
This global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities, with automation & control.
We have an opportunity to grow faster and four key growth initiatives supported by three enablers.
These seven more ef ciently by creating a single global offer.
strategic priorities, described overleaf, are supported by additional investment that will be funded from our existing cash ows.
We will Exploit eCommerce: eCommerce is at the heart of our multi-channel be investing an additional 15 million per annum in capital expenditure marketing approach.
It has grown four times as fast as the Group over over the next five years, over and above our historical run-rate of the past seven years, growing its share of our business from 25% 25 million per annum, with this incremental investment focused to 56%.
We have identi ed opportunities to grow faster by creating a on our growth initiatives.
We believe that the global organisation and global eCommerce machine to acquire and develop new customers strategy will enable us to extend our advantages over our numerous and deploying our highly skilled sales force to better manage the smaller competitors and accelerate the rate at which we gain market customer life cycle.
share in fragmented markets over the medium term.
Deliver operating leverage: Operating leverage has been delivered through economies of scale and improved cost ef ciency, offset by MEDIUM-TERM PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK lower gross margin due to price repositioning and mix.
We have Following the evolution of our strategy we have reviewed our identi ed an opportunity to continue to deliver operating leverage and medium-term performance framework.
The new global strategy partially mitigate gross margin pressure through a global pricing strategy.
is expected to deliver improved medium-term financial performance as highlighted in the table above.
Maintain UK pro tability: Our UK business has delivered 1% sales and contribution growth since 2006.
We have identi ed an opportunity Higher sales growth to grow sales in line with the market whilst maintaining high We are targeting an average Group sales growth rate of 5% to 8% pro tability by adopting a single global approach to serving our per annum through the cycle.
This represents a signi cant core customer groups.
improvement over our historical average Group sales growth performance of 4% per annum.
Evolving to a common global strategy Since 2006 it has become increasingly evident that there are clear Whilst we expect the global economic outlook to remain challenging, bene ts to being a large, global competitor in this marketplace.
our global strategy is expected to enable us to accelerate the rate at Customer needs are similar everywhere, leading suppliers in our which we gain share in our international markets.
During the past industry are global and the internet enables global marketing.
We seven years share gains have contributed around half of the 6% per have the global footprint, relationships with suppliers and eCommerce annum International sales growth.
Going forward we expect share capabilities to take advantage of these trends.
Moreover, our gains to be a greater contributor to sales growth, enabling us to reach experience since 2010 of managing our European business as a single the upper end of our 7% to 10% per annum International sales region has demonstrated the effectiveness of a common strategy, as growth target.
With an extensive footprint of 17 distribution centres Europe has delivered an average of 10% per annum underlying sales around the world we have the capacity to achieve this sales growth growth since then, signi cantly ahead of the underlying market growth.
from our existing distribution network.
14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review 1 1 GROUP RETURN ON SALES RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED 8.4% 19.
3% 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 1 Headline operating pro t expressed as a percentage of sales 1 Headline operating pro t expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt We are raising our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an WATCH IANS VIDEO INTERVIEW ONLINE average of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth rather than seeking to maintain contribution.
This improved outlook is based on our experience of the last seven years, when the UK has delivered sales growth of 1% per annum, combined with our belief that the UK manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading environment than it did a decade ago.
Improved pro tability and returns on capital employed Sales growth will remain the key driver of operating leverage, augmented by process cost leverage and ef ciencies from our move to a global operating model.
Over the medium term we expect that gross margins will reduce by around 2% points as we grow faster in lower-margin technologies and countries.
Our global pricing strategy will enable us to capture more value and partially mitigate the investment in margin we will make to improve our value for money proposition to customers.
These cost and gross margin actions are expected to result in a there are clear benefits medium-term Group operating margin range of between 9% and to being a large, global 11%.
This is an improvement on our historical performance of 7% to 10%, adjusted to re ect a 75:25 International:UK sales mix.
competitor in this Over the past seven years the Groups return on capital employed marketplace.
we are including goodwill has ranged between 15% and 25%, signi cantly well placed to capture above the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
We are targeting these benefits and to raise this range to between 20% and 30% as the bene ts of faster sales growth and continued strong cash ow generation are realised.
extend our advantages over our numerous Strong free cash ow enabling dividend growth Our global strategy is being supported by additional investment.
smaller competitors Combined with a slight improvement in stock turns and improved pro tability we are targeting medium-term Group headline free cash ow to sales to range between 4% and 6%.
The Groups free cash ow should enable the Board to maintain and grow the dividend over the medium term.
As previously indicated, over time and as earnings increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover towards two times.
Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive 23 May 2013 To watch Ians video interview visit: www.
com Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201315
