Group Chief Executives overview David Dutro Specialty Products: Group Chief Executive 10 per cent growth in sales and operating profit.
Hi-Mar and Watercryl acquisitions fully integrated and providing the anticipated synergy benefits.
Double digit growth in personal care and oilfield drilling.
Strong customer response to new decorative additives from recently commissioned New Martinsville plant.
Strong cash flow 22 per cent increase in special dividend.
Underlying everything we do is a constant focus on achieving increasingly higher levels of safety, operational and environmental performance.
For the third consecutive year our safety and environmental performance improved around the globe.
Our safety performance in 2013 was one of our best ever and, while we are encouraged by this positive trend, we know that even one incident is too many.
Our strong safety culture and focussed efforts in improving process safety will help us progress towards our goal of incident free operations.
Elementis Specialty Products Specialty Products provides solutions to its customers challenges through Dear Shareholders, superior technical service, application support and technically advanced products.
We are a key supplier of performance critical products to the 2013 has been another excellent year for Elementis with sales, operating coatings, oilfield and personal care markets and our business provides profit, operating cash flow and earnings per share all showing a positive an ideal growth platform with its well balanced geographic exposure trend.
We were able to leverage our diversified and broadly balanced across mature and emerging economies.
Specialty Products continued portfolio of activities to deliver another year of solid results.
In addition to to successfully execute its growth strategy, delivering its best year ever our strong financial performance, we continued building the foundation for in terms of sales and operating profit.
This performance was driven by sustained growth by successfully executing a number of strategic initiatives.
market segment share gains, new product introductions, synergistic bolt on acquisitions, stable margins and operational efficiency.
We firmly believe EPS moved to a record level for the fourth consecutive year, helping to drive that making our customers more successful makes us more successful and total shareholder return to more than 400 per cent over the same period.
it is this customer centric philosophy that remains the cornerstone of our Additionally, we announced total dividends in 2013 of 13.93 cents per share, strategy for new product development and technology investments.
It is which represents an 11 per cent increase over the previous year and a also a key component of our acquisition criteria.
threefold improvement over the past 4 years.
Innovation remains the vital platform from which to drive our continued Throughout the year we continued to strengthen our business both success.
Our R&D pipeline is stronger than ever and, importantly, our organically and by acquisition.
We introduced new products, built on new products are delivering real value to our customers as well as to existing and new applications and invested to meet our customers our bottom line.
Our ability to consistently deliver innovative products growing demands.
Among the many accomplishments of 2013 were: has been a critical part of the Specialty Products growth strategy and performance improvements and we are confident that it will continue Another record EPS performance.
to be a key component of our future success.
Group operating margin and EPS cents % 24 24 21 21 19% 18 19% 18 18% 15 15 21.8 23.0 15% 12 12 20.8 9 9 15.2 6 6 3 3 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items cents Group operating margin before exceptional items % restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard 04 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Each of the three Specialty Products segments coatings, oilfield drilling The business is located in Delden, the Netherlands, and shares its and personal care is strategically positioned to capitalise on one or more production facility with Specialty Products which represents an increasing of the powerful global trends of a rapidly growing middle class in developing proportion of the sites output.
The strategy remains to utilise more of the economies, the increasing longevity and urbanisation of the worlds facilitys capacity over time to manufacture higher margin products sold population and deep water and unconventional drilling for oil and natural by the Specialty Products business, achieving specialty chemicals gas.
With the global middle class expected to nearly double by 2020, and with margins.
The strategy is succeeding as currently greater than 50 per cent 85 per cent of this increase projected to come from faster growing emerging of the facilitys sales are generated from products manufactured for the markets, we expect consumer preference to evolve towards Elementis Specialty Products business.
The Delden team continues to do an products that are used in environmentally friendly high performance coatings.
excellent job of optimising business performance while executing this The growing global middle class is also enjoying greater life expectancy and is capacity transition strategy.
increasingly urban, creating significant opportunities for our innovative natural formulations in personal care.
The increasing demand for energy around the Elementis Chromium world, and the relative environmental benefits of natural gas compared to Elementis Chromium is one of the largest suppliers of chromium chemicals coal, will drive activity in deep water and unconventional drilling.
From its efficient, flexible and scalable operations located in 20 years of experience in cutting edge technology and strong customer the US, it delivers a full range of chromium based products globally to a relationships in the energy drilling sector, Elementis is ideally positioned to variety of end markets including timber treatment, metal finishing, refractory, fully benefit from the anticipated continued robust growth in deep water metal alloy and leather tanning applications.
The business is able to provide and shale gas drilling.
While most of the growth thus far has been in the US, its North American customers with a differentiated and highly valued we are participating in exciting opportunities in a number of other regions closed loop delivery model, providing a long term competitive advantage.
as horizontal drilling and fracturing technology start to jump continents.
Elementis Chromium prides itself on maintaining the highest global standards for its environmental, health and safety systems.
For the last few years, Elementis has focussed its technical resources to capitalise on these trends of a growing middle class, the increasing Elementis Chromiums strategic focus is to deliver stable earnings and cash longevity and urbanisation of societies around the world and increasing flow.
The business has successfully executed this strategy, demonstrating deep water and unconventional oilfield drilling.
To that end, our technology consistently strong revenues, operating profit, margins and cash flow.
group applied for patents on 70 per cent of new products launched This validates the stability and resilience of the business operating model in 2013 and we expect higher revenue growth and margins on these sales.
over a wide range of economic and market conditions.
The business got off I am confident that Elementis is uniquely qualified to develop and supply to a slow start due to the impact of a scheduled kiln maintenance shutdown innovative products and solutions that will allow our customers to take in the first quarter, but recovered as the year progressed in spite of a weaker full advantage of the opportunities created by these trends.
It is this unique global trading environment outside of North America.
The Chromium and enviable position that convinces me that we are only beginning to team delivered $56.4 million of cash on operating profits of $55.1 million, unlock the earnings and growth potential of this business.
demonstrating once again the strong cash generation capability of this business.
Our intention is to continue to utilise the cash from Elementis Specialty Products global capabilities allow us to develop and leverage Chromium to preferentially invest in growing the Specialty Products solutions for customers around the world.
Already, approximately business and rewarding shareholders with enhanced dividends.
40 per cent of its revenue comes from China, ASEAN countries and Latin America.
In addition, our strong local presence in these fast growing Summary regions allows us to truly understand our customers and to anticipate their I am extremely proud of the high performance culture we have built at specific needs in coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling applications.
Elementis and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our We expect this combination of Specialty Products broad global capability employees for their dedication and tireless commitment.
and strong local management to deliver material growth for Elementis.
It is with tremendous gratitude that we bid a fond farewell to Robert Beeston, Elementis Surfactants who retired from the Elementis Board at the end of July 2013 having served as The Group has continued to benefit from improvements in the quality of the Chairman of the Board from 2006 to 2013.
He is a true gentleman and his product portfolio of the Surfactants business and, as a result, operating thoughtful leadership and unwavering support have been truly appreciated.
profit improved 17 per cent versus the previous year, on similar sales.
While we anticipate 2014 to be a period of modest progress in global GDP growth, our internal performance targets and growth objectives are not predicated on an improvement in overall market conditions.
Based on our Net cash debt strategic positioning, focus on innovation, strong product portfolio and $m healthy product pipeline, we remain confident in our ability to deliver 60 profitable growth across a broad range of economic scenarios.
40 20 In closing, on behalf of the entire Elementis team I would like to sincerely 26.2 44.0 54.1 0 thank our shareholders and customers for your support.
We look towards 79.3 the future with confidence and an unrelenting commitment to reward you -20 for the confidence you have placed in us.
-40 -60 -80 2013 2010 2011 2012 Net cash debt $m David Dutro Group Chief Executive 25 February 2014 before exceptional items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05
