Chief Executives Review I am pleased to report our full year results for the year While there have been two events disrupting our supply ended 30 September 2013, during which time we chain that have had some financial impact during the have delivered EBITDA before exceptional items of year, it is pleasing that contingency plans and intense 313 million.
We have made good progress securing our management actions have minimised the impact to the financial flexibility and have seen an improving trend in business.
performance during the year which has culminated in the Debt reduction remained a core element of our strategy delivery of like-for-like net income growth of 0.6% in the during the year, driving the accelerated disposal final quarter.
programme which generated 150 million of net disposal Like-for-like net income for the total estate for the full year proceeds.
In addition, in September 2013, we successfully was down by 2.9%.
Within the year there has been steady issued an unsecured, seven year convertible bond for improvement in the underlying trading performance.
In the gross proceeds of 97 million, with the proceeds used to first half of the year we reported a 4.2% decline in total reduce existing bank debt.
The convertible bond issuance estate like-for-like net income as trading was adversely represents a new source of financing for the business impacted by heavy snow in January and the coldest March which, with the proceeds from our accelerated disposal for many years.
In addition, the cessation of trading on programme, has removed the requirement for significant 1 October 2012 of Waverley, our wines and spirits bank amortisation in the next few years and extended distributor, adversely impacted the business as we were our debt maturity profile.
We now have a manageable unable to supply these products to Publicans, resulting in amortisation profile which means we are able to return a direct loss of nearly 2 million of trading income.
We now to a normalised level of asset disposals with the intention have a new two year distribution agreement for wines and of only disposing of underperforming assets each year spirits which has been operational throughout the second and reinvesting the c. 60 million of proceeds from such half and has enabled us to return to a normalised level of disposals to fund annual investment in the retained trading for these categories of products.
Realising proceeds from asset disposals with very low yields and using those proceeds to generate more significant returns will provide incremental income to the business which will assist in the delivery of sustainable like-for-like net income growth.
We have a manageable and tax efficient capital structure comprising predominantly long-term debt, consistent with the long-term nature of our freehold assets.
Our strong cash generation from operations combined with the successful disposal programme has enabled us to reduce total net debt from 2.7 billion to 2.5 billion during the year.
The Board currently believes that the best use of available cash is to continue to reduce debt to achieve a transfer of value to shareholders and as such will not resume the payment of dividends at this time.
During the year Vince Cable, Secretary of State for The second half of the financial year has delivered a 1.8% Business, Innovation and Skills BIS initiated a further decline in like-for-like net income with the third quarter consultation into the operations of the tied pub sector.
facing tough comparatives against the prior year due to While we await the findings of the consultation, we the timing of Easter, a positive impact from the Euro 2012 remain firmly of the view that any statutory intervention football championship and the Queens Diamond Jubilee would be unnecessary, disproportionate, without celebrations.
In the final quarter of our year we received reasonable foundation and potentially subject to multiple some benefit from a hot spell of weather in July but were legal challenges.
Taxes suffered by pubs increased by also adversely impacted in the final weeks of the year 17% over the five years to September 2013, and now by disruption caused to beer deliveries by the industrial account for around 1 in every 3 taken across the bar.
action of employees of KNDL, our national distributor.
Over the same five years we worked hard to improve our Against this backdrop we were pleased to achieve growth pubs, investing in the region of 300 million in the fabric of 0.6% in total estate like-for-like net income in the final of the estate whilst seeing our average net income per quarter.
pub fall by 12% as we have transferred significant value to our Publicans through reduced rents and increased discounts.
08 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 8 10 12 2013 14:19:42 the country was partially offset by the effects of a stronger TRADING REVIEW London economy.
The agenda for our southern team is a growth strategy, prioritising return generating investment Total estate like-for-like net income - opportunities and ensuring our Publican selection process performance leads to optimal performance.
In the North and the Following a difficult start, like-for-like net income trends Midlands our teams face a different set of challenges.
have improved throughout the year with the final Whilst our business building activities apply across all quarter achieving growth of 0.6%.
The year began with geographic regions a much greater proportion of our challenging conditions resulting in like-for-like net income Publican support is focused on the North and Midlands decline of 4.2% in the first half, which then improved to where economic pressures provide difficult conditions a decline of 1.8% in the second half, producing a full year for Publicans and their customers.
trading performance have been experienced across all geographies in the final quarter of the year, with the Total estate like-for-like net income - South returning to net income like-for-like growth.
geography Our estate in the South, representing 42% of total net income, contracted by 1.9% as the weaker trade across Net income No.
of pubs at Net income % of total net Net income change 30 Sept FY13 income FY12 FY13 Location 2013 m FY13 m % North 1,640 104 28 108 3.7 Midlands 1,773 112 30 116 3.4 South 2,080 155 42 158 1.9 Total 5,493 371 100 382 2.9 Net income represents like-for-like pub level gross profits, stated before property costs of 28 million, unallocated central costs of 6 million and excluding 8 million of net income relating to pubs that have been disposed of or non-licensed premises.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 09 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 9 10 12 2013 14:19:45 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review During the current year, some 32% of our capital OPERATIONAL REVIEW - SUSTAINABLE investment has been directed at growth-driving INCOME GROWTH initiatives up from the 23% achieved in the prior year.
In order to secure our objective of sustainable growth in Our expectation is that we will move this proportion toward 60% of total capital investment over the next like-for-like net income across the estate, our operational teams continue to focus on four key differentiating three years.
Growth orientated capital investment during the current year ranged from some 15 individual activities: enhancing the quality of the estate: attracting and retaining the right Publicans: selling in smarter ways large-scale projects of over 100,000, where we are delivering immediate returns on investment to optimise income: and providing exceptional local support.
of approximately 15%, to our exterior decorations programme, where we invested in over 1,000 of our pubs Enhancing the quality of the estate at an average cost of 10,000 to improve the kerb appeal of our pubs.
An additional benefit of the exterior decorations The quality of our pub estate is critical to the success of programme is that it encourages investment from the our business, attracting the best Publicans and providing Publicans on interior decorations or enhancements to a platform for them to invest in the long-term profitability their offer to complement the exterior improvements.
Property condition is a shared responsibility between ourselves and our Publicans.
We We plan to invest 60 million a year for the foreseeable have continued to invest in enhancing the quality of the future to further improve the quality of our estate.
This estate with 62 million of capital investment during the investment will not only enhance our income but will also year.
This investment is often made working alongside represent a significant contribution toward supporting our Publicans, who will additionally invest in facilities Publican profitability and is expected to assist with a and fixtures and fittings, to reposition the pub for reduction in Publican churn arising from business failures.
Before After The White Lion Portishead Given the history of the site, it was important to improve the condition of the closed pub with a significant capital investment.
It is one of only two known tidal mills, was mentioned in the Domesday Book and had been converted into an Inn back in the 1700s.
With the increased potential market of the new-build marina area this site occupies a prominent position in Portishead to bridge between the old and the new areas.
After careful consideration of the options, and with the partnership of a quality Publican, we developed a plan for a complete refurbishment to trade under the Mezz concept.
The site needed extensive re-modelling internally to maximize the trading area and bring in a new kitchen, as well as developing the external areas to capitalise on the growth in al fresco dining and drinking.
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 10 10 12 2013 14:19:46 Before The Montgomery Eastham After Previously known as the Stanley Arms, this pub had been closed following a decline in the business.
Taking a cluster strategy to our pubs in the area and given its size and location, we believed that the pub had the correct demographics for a good food offer, which would then complement our other pubs in the area.
Once we had identified suitable Publicans to deliver our vision for the pub, we initiated a joint investment scheme requiring the total refurbishment of the trading areas, improving the layout and providing the opportunity for a higher quality food offer.
This pub is now a highly successful operation, with a significant increase in trade.
Before The Milk House Sissinghurst After Being the only pub in the village, our local team reviewed what would suit the pub formerly known as The Bull as well as the community, opting for a high end local with good quality food, underpinned by a healthy wet trade.
This involved a collaboration with the new Publicans on the refurbishment of all trade areas, merging the two bars into one, and the creation of four boutique letting rooms to meet local demand for accommodation.
The new Publicans, Dane and Sarah Allchorne, have quickly established a reputation for high quality food, with the beautifully refurbished letting rooms regularly used.
Before Brownlee Arms Horsforth After Formerly known as the Grey Horse, and in a poor state of repair, this site had been trading as a wet led operation with sub-optimal levels of trade for many years.
Hand-in-hand with a new experienced Publican we commenced a programme to reposition the pub as a warm and welcoming mid-market drinking and dining experience.
Developing the layout with a high quality refurbishment, we created a relaxed and comfortable environment, with better facilities to allow the introduction of the food offer whilst still retaining a dedicated drinking area.
Renamed after the famous Brownlee brothers, the Olympic triathletes from the area, the pub has been a great success since it has re-opened.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 11 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 11 10 12 2013 14:19:50 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review with their operational decisions, retail offerings and Attracting and retaining the right retail standards.
During the course of the year, we have Publicans to the Enterprise offer reviewed our Beacon estate and have identified a number Rental income is a material component of our net income of sites that have traded successfully which could be returned to a normal tenancy agreement.
We have also and therefore rental income stability is critical for like-forlike net income growth.
We have seen some encouraging identified sites where, despite our best efforts, the trade from the pub was insufficient to support our continued signs of stability, with rent reviews in the year reducing annualised rents, on average, by only 0.3%.
In addition involvement resulting in their disposal.
At the financial year end we had 185 trading Beacon pubs, the majority we are working to align rents to current market conditions with some 94% of pubs having a rent review or renewal of which have traded as Beacons for over twelve months and it is pleasing to report that these pubs increased their over the past five years.
like-for-like net income by 8% in the year.
While a change of Publican can be the catalyst for revitalising the prospects of a pub, reducing the instances Through Beacon we have seen evidence that our increased of business failure is one of our key strategies to maintain involvement in the operation of a pub can assist its trading and grow our like-for-like performance as such instances income and its potential and this has encouraged us to have the most significant impact upon our rental income.
assess whether we should operate a broader range of We are pleased with the progress we have made with formats targeted at supporting those pubs at the lower reducing the level of business failure from the peak of 972 end of our estate.
Our core offering will remain the leased in the extremely difficult trading environment of 2008 09 and tenanted model, incorporating the flexibility offered to 579 in the current financial year and our objective is to by our range of tied arrangements, but it is important deliver further improvement over the coming years.
that we understand how other formats could assist our ability to optimise our income whilst offering Publicans a number of options to best match their appetite for the risk 9.4% 13.1% 12.8% 12.1% 12.4% 10.5% and rewards of pub management.
Within the assessment % of closing estate we are considering the full range of formats including 972 1,000 commercial leases, franchise arrangements, partially 875 762 managed and fully managed operations.
We will examine 800 734 730 433 current and anticipated market and consumer trends and 579 485 600 388 will consider regulatory influences.
The outcome may 340 443 322 require us to develop an operational infrastructure capable 400 539 of supporting such models.
Of course, were we to develop 374 200 390 390 a capability to support a managed format for the lower 291 257 end of our estate, this could represent an opportunity to 0 explore how we might use such a capability to optimise 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 our income from other assets within the estate.
Agreement failures Agreement surrenders Decreasing rates of business failure Even the best Publicans may need our support to tackle the multiple challenges of weak consumer confidence, increased overhead costs, the burden of punitive increases in taxation and the high cost of regulation.
We therefore continue to provide temporary concessions and support to Publicans, where considered appropriate, and are pleased to have seen this stabilise at a cost of 6 million, which is in line with the prior year.
We are targeting this concessionary support more toward business-building activities that will enhance footfall and income for the Publican rather than purely defensive financial support.
In addition, one of the means of reducing the instances of Publican change has been the use of our Beacon managed tenancy agreements, which has delivered a great foundation for our Beacon Publicans to grow successful businesses in a challenging marketplace.
Under the Beacon model, we have a much closer relationship with the Publican and we get more involved 12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 12 10 12 2013 14:19:52 Number of business failures We have also partnered with Charnwood Training Group to give Publicans easier access to apprenticeships that help improve core staff skills, covering the essentials required to run or work in a pub, including customer service, health and safety, licensing law compliance and handling money.
By offering these apprenticeships, we are demonstrating to people that working in this industry means much more than standing behind a bar and are providing the tools they need to develop a successful and fruitful career.
Our 100 Days project, which launched this year, is a key component of our strategy to recruit and support better quality Publicans through our commitment to make the first 100 Days of a Publicans journey with Enterprise as smooth as possible.
Building upon our existing comprehensive support to help Publicans get their businesses off to the best start, the project has enhanced Recognising that a successful pub requires skilled staff the tools and framework for Enterprise and third parties and Publicans, we have continued to invest in the quality to deliver it.
In return for the unrivalled support that is of our training programmes.
In addition to our existing offered, we insist on quality and commitment, both free courses, such as Food Retailing, Education and of which contribute to a more sustainable long-term Development, Winning in a Local Market Area and business.
Ways of Winning, we have launched a new course called Profit Through People, which is designed to help We have also redesigned our website, as we identified a Publicans improve business performance and get the need to have more accessible information and to improve best out of their staff.
The course educates Publicans the communication of the Enterprise offer to all audiences on how to coach and develop a motivated team, how to to demonstrate why we believe it is the most competitive strategically review customer care and how to identify within our industry.
what makes a successful, profitable and sustainable business.
Alongside these classroom courses, we have also launched an e-learning suite of over 20 courses, so that Publicans can improve their skills without having to leave their business.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 13 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 13 10 12 2013 14:19:54 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review We have partnered with Crown Cellars of Carlsberg UK to Selling smarter provide a new wines and spirits portfolio.
Crown Cellars Our activities in this area are designed to support Publicans have been supplying wines and spirits for over 20 years and in order to enhance their income, to reduce costs paid to their expert team has worked closely with us to develop third parties and to improve beer sales and margins.
a range that is broader and deeper than ever before.
The new range has been considerably extended to include a Product Offer large number of new premium spirits to capitalise on the growing consumer trend for this category.
Along with our We have developed new strategic partnerships to help extended range, Publicans have access to merchandising our Publicans by making their businesses even more hints and tips, food matching suggestions and profit competitive and attractive.
With regard to entertainment, calculators.
we have agreed terms with Molson Coors to provide the Sky entertainment package to Enterprise pubs at a 30% Pub Offer discount to list price, a potential average saving for each participating pub of 3,000 per annum.
To date over 495 We continue to provide meaningful support to Publicans Publicans have taken advantage of this offer.
Additionally in a number of different ways through help with marketing we have negotiated market-leading terms to enable initiatives.
This year, we have distributed thousands of Enterprise Publicans to enjoy significant discounts while free business support kits to help Publicans with the taking full advantage of the investment made by BT into key occasions through from Halloween to New Year sports viewing.
Countdown to Christmas, the spring months Spring into Action, and all the sporting occasions and festival We have also partnered with the communications opportunities of the summer Summer Drinks and infrastructure and media services company Arqiva to offer Cask and Quality.
All kits are delivered to our pubs, a free, high speed WiFi service to our Publicans and their packed full with point-of-sale resources and advice to help customers.
Not only will this service help our Publicans maximise trade in the pub over the relevant months.
to attract additional footfall and increase customer dwell time in their pubs, it will also typically save them 500 per annum.
Over 1,500 Publicans have signed up for this offer and we are busy working with our partners to install the service as quickly as possible.
Increasing the number of pubs that have access to high speed internet also gives us the opportunity to interact with our Publicans through our digital communication channels and will provide the platform for increased electronic ordering and marketing as we further develop our digital capabilities.
With the importance of a quality food offering now well established, we have also introduced a new partnership with Brakes the Enterprise Pub Club which is bringing cost savings, exclusive promotions, business planning, menu design, print services and other business tools to over 150 of our Publicans.
Through our empower communications, a monthly newspaper and a weekly e-bulletin, we keep our Publicans up-to-date with industry news, commercial offers and events throughout the year.
In addition, 75% of our Publicans are registered to use a dedicated Publican channel on enterpriseinns.
com where they can access further support, tools and advice on running their business.
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 14 10 12 2013 14:19:54 In April and May of this year, we hosted a series of Exceptional local support roadshows called empowerlive!
presenting our Through the local management of our pubs, we tailor our Publicans with a great opportunity to not only network support as appropriate for each area.
For example, during with suppliers and professionals from across the industry, the year we have trialled a cluster approach to identifying but also to profit from access to over 6,000 worth of the appropriate offer for all our pubs in and around the exclusive, show-only offers and deals, a host of prizes centre of Wakefield.
Within a one mile radius of Wakefield and activities, upcoming products and services, insightful city centre we own 13 pubs which collectively delivered seminars and interactive workshops to help them build a like-for-like decline in net income in 2012 of some 20%, their businesses.
The roadshows were open to all arising from extremely difficult market conditions.
Rather Enterprise Publicans, taking place at seven key locations than look at each pub individually the local team focused around the country such as Wembley Stadium and Leeds on a holistic strategy to cover all of the pubs together.
United FC, and brought together a huge range of major As a result of this cluster strategy we invested a total suppliers such as AB InBev, Diageo, Heineken, Molson of 280,000 to differentiate between the sites: we Coors, Brakes, Mediatheme, BII and Drinkaware to name transferred two sites to a Beacon operation, changed the but a few.
pub offer in seven pubs and sold one site.
Collectively the Wakefield pubs delivered a 7% like-for-like net income growth in the current year and an estimated return on investment of some 15%.
Our regional managers are critical to the commercial relationship between us and our Publicans and three of them were finalists at the 2012 ALMR Operations Managers Awards, proving themselves as excellent leaders in their field.
As at September 2013, we also had five regional managers as finalists in the 2013 awards.
All our regional managers are currently engaged in the BII Level 4 Certificate in Multiple Licensed Premises Management course and all will have completed the course by the end of the 2013 calendar year.
This accreditation requires a great deal of work, including exams, coursework and conducting role play assessments on a number of modules integral to their relationship with Publicans, such as P&L and budget control, negotiation Community Hero Awards, National Winner 2013 and communication skills, as well as business planning and managing meetings.
Debbie Collinge of The Lord Nelson, Luddenden, West Yorkshire Behind every great community pub, there is a great The Lord Nelson is at the heart of all village events Publican.
In 2012 we launched our Community Hero throughout the year, from Easter egg hunts and charity race Awards programme where we committed 1 million over nights to a Santas Grotto at Christmas.
The pub provides 10 years to community causes and initiatives promoted support and facilities for various local groups such as the by our Publicans and their customers.
Many regularly Mayors Fund, the Luddenden Bloomers and the Pints of make an incredibly positive impact on the communities View Society.
We like to call them Community Heroes Popularly known as The Nelly, the pub acts as a safe haven and their activities can involve anything from providing when the village is hit by floods or snow.
Debbie and her a local meeting space for a community group or raising team have big plans to get the most out of the 10,000 awareness and funds for a chosen charity.
The inaugural Community Hero funding and is already looking to establish monthly IT classes following the purchase of new computer awards strengthened the outstanding community work equipment.
It is hoped that the purchase of a small gritter of 18 pubs.
Again this year, a panel of judges including and plough will benefit local residents in the winter, whilst the 2012 National Winner, Publican Jim Woolley from the Debbie also plans to buy a defibrillator for the village and set Hare Inn in Leighton Buzzard selected the 18 Regional up an annual Luddenden time-trial cycling event.
Winners for 2013 who were awarded 5,000 each to build on their support for local causes.
At the Community Hero Awards ceremony attended by Brandon Lewis MP, the minister responsible for community pubs, the National Winner was unveiled as Debbie Collinge of The Lord Nelson, Luddenden, West Yorkshire and she was awarded a further 5,000 to invest in her chosen community initiatives.
For our Community Hero Award Winners see page 127 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 15 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 15 10 12 2013 14:19:55 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review PROPERTY REVIEW OPTIMISING OUR REGULATORY INTERVENTION FREEHOLD ESTATE DISPROPORTIONATE AND UNWARRANTED During the year we welcomed the decision of the 62 million invested to enhance the Chancellor of the Exchequer to abolish the Beer Duty estate and support Publican profitability Escalator and to reduce the duty on beer by 1p per pint, bringing welcome relief to our Publicans.
We were also Our property team works with Publicans and our operational pleased by the introduction of an employment allowance, team to optimise the use and value of our assets and to reducing employers National Insurance bills by 2,000 implement suitable capital investment projects.
Against this backdrop it is particularly the year we invested 62 million enhancing the quality of disappointing and unfortunate for the whole industry the estate with an increased proportion of our investment that BIS has again challenged the self-regulation in the focused on growth-driving activities.
The property team landlord-tenant relationship.
We have proactively engaged works closely with operations to identify the optimum in the consultation process and await the outcome before economic use for every asset, including reviewing the considering any further course of action.
Rather than property condition, assessment of appropriateness of the adopting the proposals of the consultation, we believe retail offer of the pub and assessing the capabilities of the that the industry should instead work together to increase Publican.
These considerations drive the identification of transparency, awareness and understanding of the selfan agreed strategy between our operational and property regulatory system among tied tenants.
The rights and teams so that we have a plan for every pub which will benefits of this system are assured under an improving determine prioritisation of capital investment and early code of conduct, which is already legally binding through identification of underperforming pubs which should be contract, without the need for the damaging and costly disposed of.
straitjacket of statutory intervention imposing unworkable rent controls that override the market.
150 million raised from successful programme of pub disposals As always, we have continued to work with representative bodies of property owners, brewers and Publicans to Total net proceeds received from our successful disposal further evolve the Industry Framework Code of Practice programme in the year to 30 September 2013 amounted and firmly believe that self-regulation is effective.
Key to 150 million, from the disposal of 428 properties in the elements of the self-regulatory regime are the low cost year.
The majority of these pubs, 400, were considered and easily accessible services provided by the Pub to be underperforming tail end pubs which generated net Independent Rent Review Scheme PIRRS and the Pub proceeds on disposal of 116 million, at an average value Independent Conciliation and Arbitration Service PICAS.
of 290,000, with an additional 28 properties considered PIRRS provides Publicans with independent determination to be exceptional, generating net proceeds of 34 million of rent at the time of a rent review, while PICAS provides at an average multiple of 14 times income.
a mechanism for dispute resolution and remedy.
We will Following the issue of a convertible bond during the continue to extensively promote the availability of these year, we now intend to reduce our disposal programme services to our Publicans.
to focus purely on the underperforming element of the estate to generate sufficient cash proceeds each year G E Tuppen CBE to fund the annual capital investment in the retained Chief Executive business to enhance its income potential.
Total disposal 18 November 2013 proceeds for the year to 30 September 2014 are expected to be in the region of 70 million, of which some 20 million is expected from our Unique estate.
Effective asset management An important aspect of the role of our property team is to operate as any commercial landlord should.
Our Publicans have legal responsibilities with regard to the upkeep of our pubs and we need to ensure that: firstly, our Publicans are aware of, and understand, their obligations: and secondly, these obligations are enforced.
During the year we have enhanced our property maintenance procedures such that the property condition of every pub is assessed on a quarterly basis and the findings discussed and actions agreed with the Publican.
We then have a monitoring and enforcement process to ensure required property work is completed and legally enforced where necessary.
Such procedures, combined with a reduction in the instances of Publican change, are important to enable us to increase the proportion of our capital investment on growth-driving activities.
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 16 10 12 2013 14:19:55 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 17 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 6:06 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 17 10 12 2013 18:07:50 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
