Essar Energy plc 06 Company overview Annual Report and accounts 2013 Chief Executive Officers review Growth projects FY2013 has been a year of solid FY2013 saw the completion of several major projects and with this, significant delivery against our strategy.
Our Vadinar refinery upgrade increased capacity by 15% to 20million metric tonnes per annum Naresh Nayyar mmtpa and a complexity of 11.8, and Chief Executive Officer ourpower capacity increased by 144% with completion of the 1,200 MW Salaya I coal-fired power plant, the 510 MW Vadinar P2 coal-fired power plant and the first 600 MW unit at our Mahan I coal-fired power plant.
With the completion of these projects, the majority of our capex programme is complete which significantlyreduces construction riskswithin the Company.
The new Vadinar refinery expansion unitswere ramped up to full capacity and complexity within six months of completion, which is a credit to the operating team at Vadinar.
This asset has been operating at full capacity for the last six months so our focus has moved to the optimisation of the individual units to enhance volumes and margins.
This asset now stands amongst the best in the world in terms of scale and complexity and, with a total cost of just US$5.3 billion, is also amongst the most competitive from a capital perspective.
TheVadinar refinery is the flagship asset inEssar Energys portfolio.
In Power, we more than doubled our capacity from 1,600 MW a year ago to 3,910 MW today.
Importantly, the projects completed this year are the first of our coal-fired power projects: Salaya I, which will primarily provide power to the local state utility in Gujarat: Vadinar P2, which willprovide power and steam to the Vadinar refinery: and Mahan I, which will provide power to local utilities, Essar Steel and the merchant market.
Despite some initial issues around temporary cooling water availability at Salaya and transmission at Mahan, I am pleased to report that these plants are all now being stabilised and will shortly be operating as expected.
Operating performance Following completion of a number of projects during the year we saw a significant uplift in production.
In Refining, production was up by 22% from 176 million barrels mmbbls to 215mmbbls following the expansion of the Vadinar refinery and a full year contribution Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 07 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Heat recovery steam generator and chimney at Bhander power plant.
from the Stanlow refinery which was of US$256 million, which would otherwise acquired in July 2011.
More importantly, we have led to a profit before tax.
This was still saw a strong uplift in our CP GRMs from a major improvement on last years loss US$4.45 bbl to US$7.96 bbl at Vadinar before tax of US$1,148 million which was following the upgrade in complexity from impacted by the loss of the Gujarat sales 6.1 to 11.8 and improved market conditions tax case.
At Stanlow, we saw CP GRMs increase from US$3.06 bbl to US$7.38 bbl With operations now stabilising, the which includes the benefits of our margin focusis now firmly on optimising the enhancement as well as improved market performance of our assets and I would conditions in Europe.
expect to see continued top line improvements in future periods.
The current financial year will see us benefit from a full year of the upgraded complexity Our net finance costs increased from Our major capex at Vadinar.
Projects have been delivered lastyears US$384 million to US$691 programme is now to improve GRMs by a sustainable million due to interest on sales tax and US$2.2 bbl in Stanlow.
Stanlow has increased interest from projects moving complete in our refining increased its target for sustainable margin into operations as interest which was businesses and nearing enhancements to US$4 bbl, which will previously capitalised is now expensed allow it to deliver GRMs of US$6 bbl above inour profit and loss account.
Looking completion in our power IEA European benchmark margins by the forward, our focus moves to reducing the business.
impact of financing costs on profits.
We have commenced a number of initiatives moves to asset In Power, production across the to reduce interest costs including the optimisation and debt portfoliowas up by 26% from 7,907 million dollarisation of our Rupee debt in Essar units MU to 10,017 MU as a decline in Oil, extending the repayment profile of reduction within the production across our gas-based power our debt to better match asset lives, and Company.
plants due to high gas prices was more reducing overall debt levels.
We will than offset by increased production from provide updates on progress of these our new power plant.
Despite this progress, initiatives in future periods.
we continue to face challenges in our power operations due to regulatory delays, Health and safety coal availability, logistics challenges and Health and safety remains the number US$719,660 to community activities and I high gas prices.
Our operating teams one priority for Essar Energy.
During would encourage you to review some of continue to innovate to overcome these theyear, despite an overall good the case studies laid out in this Report challenges, such as the transfer of cooling performance, we had Lost Time Incidents and our separately published online water from our Vadinar refinery to the at our Vadinar, Stanlow, Raniganj and Sustainability Report.
Salaya power plant to ensure sufficient Salaya assets.
Sadly, we also had a water availability and our decision to vehicle incident at theVadinar refinery Your Company has made significant convert the Bhander and Hazira power involving a contractor which led to a progress against our stated strategy projects from gas to coal, but we need to fatality.
As a result, we decided to raise during FY2013.
Our major capex see improvements in regulation and the theprofile of the Boards Health, Safety programme is now complete in our availability of coal and gas at affordable and Environment HSE Committee at our Refinery business and nearing completion prices to deliver the full potential of our sites and held HSE site visits at Stanlow, in Power.
With this, our focus has moved power assets.
This allowed the HSE to asset optimisation to ensure that all Committee to review conditions on the assets deliver to expectations, and then to Despite these challenges, as our ground and agree a number of action reducing net debt within the Company.
operations settle down and with a full year points with a view to improving While challenges remain, we are very clear contribution from our new plant, we should performance.
I am confident that all of on what we need to do to be successful again see an uplift in generation in this ouroperations will continue to seek and I am confident of delivery against current financial year.
Improved financial results We also continue to engage with I am positive that Essar Energy will continue The improved operating performance has thepeople around our operations to to go from strength to strength.
fed through to a much improved financial ensure that we are giving back to our performance with CP EBITDA up 176% on communities.
Our focus is on health, last year from US$485 million to US$1,336 education, basic services and supporting Naresh Nayyar million.
The IFRS loss before tax of US$163 the creation of sustainable micro Chief Executive Officer million was impacted by items outside of businesses.
During the year, through the 23 June 2013 our control such as foreign exchange loss Essar Foundation, we contributed
