32 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business review Chief Executives review We are pleased to have delivered further progress in the year ended 31 March 2013 as we continue to execute against our growth programme and to capitalise on structural growth opportunities across our markets.
9% to 85.7 US cents per share and we have again raised our full-year dividend, by 9% to 34.75 US cents per share.
We delivered growth across all our regions, despite economic headwinds in some markets.
Organic revenue growth was 14% in Latin America, 7% in North America, 5% in the UK and Ireland and 3% in EMEA Asia Pacific.
We delivered good growth across our four global business lines, with organic revenue growth of 9% in both Credit Services and Consumer Services, and 5% in both Decision Analytics and Marketing Services.
We met or exceeded all of our financial objectives, namely to deliver mid to high single-digit Don Robert organic revenue growth, maintain or Chief Executive Officer improve margin and deliver cash flow conversion of at least 90%.
Strategically, our global growth programme continues to gain momentum, and contributed over At constant currency, total revenue four percentage points to organic growth was 10% and organic revenue revenue growth, ahead of our earlier growth was 8% H1 8%, H2 7%.
The largest contributors was further progression in our EBIT to growth were fraud and identity margin, up 40 basis points to 26.6%, management, telecommunications, giving rise to growth in EBIT from and geographic expansion, for continuing activities of 13% at constant example in Colombia and Russia.
Currency movements affected us adversely during the year, mainly due This has been another successful year to the depreciation of the Brazilian real for the Group and I would like to thank relative to the US dollar.
At actual rates, the people of Experian whose creativity revenue and EBIT increased by 6% and and hard work make it possible to 7% respectively.
Benchmark EPS rose deliver premium growth consistently.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 33 P38 P40 Financial and strategic highlights We were pleased to have delivered Our UK and Ireland business is by region organic revenue growth in the midgrowing, notwithstanding the weak teens in Latin America during the year.
economic backdrop in the region, and P36 Our business in North America is Our business in Brazil has continued our performance in fact strengthened performing strongly.
This reflects the to perform well, notwithstanding the somewhat as the year progressed.
Our progress we are making across our significant slowdown that has taken Consumer Services business has grown credit-related activities and in particular place in the Brazilian economy.
We very strongly, by more than 20%, as we a growing contribution from our recent are adding clients in new customer introduce new features to attract more investment initiatives.
We have seen segments, expanding the size of key members and to retain them for longer.
strong progress in fraud and identity client relationships and making progress We are also benefiting from a return to management, having secured several across several new verticals.
This helped growth across Credit Services, as we new contracts in the public sector, to offset the effects of reduced credit introduce new sources of data, new as well as good growth in healthcare issuance by some financial services products and as we expand further payments, as we expand the suite of clients during the year.
There was a into new customer segments such as services we offer to hospitals and other strong contribution too from Computec, utilities, public sector, insurance and healthcare practitioners.
We have also which delivered organic revenue growth telecommunications.
We have seen a seen further growth across business in excess of 20%.
We are placing a lot of slight improvement in activity levels information and automotive.
Our emphasis on expanding our presence across the financial services segment, financial services vertical performed in these markets by introducing a range as well as strengthening pipelines well, as we introduce new sources of of Experian products, particularly in across Decision Analytics.
These data and as lending conditions slowly software and fraud prevention, as well factors helped to offset a decline in our improve.
In our marketing business, as in digital marketing.
we made the small but strategically significant acquisition of Conversen P42 An important strategic milestone was Weak conditions in Europe and across during the year.
Conversen has the approval in December 2012 of the some parts of Asia Pacific created added new cross-channel marketing final bank regulations for the sharing some headwinds and resulted in low capabilities and has been positively and collection of positive consumer growth across EMEA Asia Pacific.
We received by clients since we integrated credit reference data in Brazil.
Banks have taken action to improve operating it into our digital marketing portfolio.
have until August 2013 to comply efficiency, while at the same time In Consumer Services, we have made with the new regulations.
We are in expanding and growing our presence considerable progress in the affinity discussions with key data suppliers, in markets where we see good growth channel, securing a new channel partner with the aim of securing a critical mass potential, for example in Turkey during the year and we are laying the of positive data over the next eighteen and Russia.
An important strategic foundations for future expansion of our months or so.
We were also pleased to milestone was the launch during the affinity business.
As we have referenced complete the acquisition during the year year of a new credit bureau in Australia.
previously, performance in our directof a further 29.6% interest in Serasa to to-consumer channel was held back as take our total holding to 99.6%.
we temporarily suspended acquiring customers through the affiliate channel.
2012 restated for the movement of some businesses in EMEA Asia Pacific to discontinuing activities.
Total growth at constant exchange rates.
Discontinuing activities comprise small discontinuing businesses in EMEA Asia Pacific.
EBIT margin is for continuing activities only.
Further analysis can be found in the financial review.
See the financial review for analysis of revenue and EBIT by business segment.
See the financial review and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
Income statement and earnings analysis 2013 2012 US$m US$m EBIT from continuing operations 1,253 1,175 Net interest 58 47 Benchmark PBT 1,195 1,128 Exceptional items 66 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 123 122 Acquisition expenses 4 9 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 1 3 Charges for demerger-related share incentive plans 5 Financing fair value remeasurements 561 318 Profit before tax 440 689 Group tax charge credit 152 35 Profit after tax from continuing operations 288 724 Benchmark EPS US cents 85.7 78.9 Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 25.2 66.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 988 989 See the financial review for analysis of revenue and EBIT by business segment.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 35 Cash flow and net debt Dividend Growth and efficiency As announced in November 2012, EBIT conversion into operating For the year ended 31 March 2013, we have launched an efficiency cash flow was 94%, exceeding our we are announcing a second interim programme with the intention of retarget of 90% conversion.
Net debt dividend of 24.00 US cents per share.
investing the savings into our most increased by US$1,120m to US$2,938m This gives a full-year dividend of 34.75 promising growth opportunities.
The increase is US cents per share, up 9%.
The second have recognised a charge of US$54m after funding capital expenditure of interim dividend will be paid on 19 July during this financial year in relation US$460m, acquisition expenditure of 2013 to shareholders on the register at to achieving the efficiency savings.
US$1,549m, equity dividend payments the close of business on 21 June 2013.
We continue to expect a total charge in of US$322m and net share purchases People relation to the programme of US$110m of US$180m.
Acquisition expenditure On 1 May 2013, we announced that, and for the programme to deliver gross principally comprises the purchase of after over 40 years, Sir John Peace has annualised savings of approximately the Serasa non-controlling interest for a decided to step down as Chairman US$75m.
Approximately two-thirds consideration of US$1,500m, plus other and as a director of Experian plc by our of these savings will be reinvested to smaller transactions.
At 31 March 2013, annual general meeting to be held in drive growth.
the net debt to EBITDA gearing ratio July 2014.
Sir John was a founder of was 1.86 times, which compares to our We have identified the following as our business, having joined the Group target net debt range of 1.75 to 2.0 times.
key areas for reinvestment over the in 1969 when it was part of GUS plc.
forthcoming year: We have a 334m bond which matures Conscious from the very early days of in December 2013 and which will be New customer segments including the value of information, he had the repaid from existing bank facilities.
public sector, healthcare payments, foresight and vision to understand how Net debt has risen following the Serasa automotive and the affinity channel: the industry would develop and this transaction and we expect our net profoundly affected the formation of Geographic expansion including interest expense to be in the range of the Group.
We owe a significant debt Turkey, Russia, South Africa and US$80m to US$90m for the year ending of gratitude to Sir John and we thank Chile: and 31 March 2014. him for his enormous contribution to Product innovation including fraud Experian.
We will now start the process Capital strategy and identity management, Data Lab of appointing a successor and a further roll-out and cross-channel marketing In setting our capital strategy, we aim to announcement will be made once the roll-out.
strike an appropriate balance between appointment process concludes.
investing in the business for growth, These investments are aimed at maintaining a prudent but efficient sustaining premium growth into balance sheet and delivering returns the future.
For the forthcoming year, we have taken into account current leverage, anticipated free cash flow and the current acquisition pipeline.
In view of these items, we are initiating a share purchase programme totalling US$500m over the next 12 months, subject to trading performance and acquisition spend.
This sum includes share purchases in respect of employee share plans that vest, at an anticipated cost in the region of US$160m to US$170m.
