Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW A solid performance in challenging conditions demonstrates the strength of Fenners businesses.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer During the year, we invested 90m in the expectations, creating uncertainty over Dear Shareholder future of the Group, with capital expenditure commodity demand.
However, with In our financial year to 31 August 2013, of 27.3m and 62.5m spent on acquisitions.
employment and income remaining resilient, revenue was 820.6m 2012: 830.6m, the Chinese government had room to continue underlying operating profit was 101.5m In addition to investing in our business, strong structural reform and, as a result, commodity 2012: 118.8m, underlying profit before cash generation was also a feature of the volumes key to Fenner continued to grow.
Net cash from operations was 126.5m, underlying earnings per share was 30.1p representing 125% of underlying operating Current global economic forecasts for 2014 2012: 36.1p.
profit and, despite our investment are positive, showing stronger growth as programme, net debt at the year end increased advanced economies continue to recover, Our performance throughout the year reflects only moderately to 121.1m 2012: 97.7m.
supporting growth in the export driven the strength and resilience of the businesses emerging economies.
Current 2014 growth we have built, with AEP achieving record Economic background forecasts have improved to 2.0% for advanced annual revenues and profit.
The first half of While the slow recovery in global growth economies and 5.1% for emerging and the financial year saw a robust response by continued throughout the year under review, developing economies IMF World Economic both ECS and AEP to difficult trading economic conditions during 2013 were affected Outlook, October 2013. conditions in certain key markets.
As set out by lower than expected growth in emerging in the table below, our financial performance economies.
In China, which is the principal recovered strongly in the second half of the global driver of commodity demand, weaker year as conditions showed some signs of trade and soft manufacturing activity pulled improvement.
As part of this process and in In 2013, ECS generated revenue of 549.8m performance improved as the year common with other suppliers, we also agreed 2012: 593.4m and underlying operating progressed.
Measures taken to reduce costs to certain price reductions, the impact of profit of 63.0m 2012: 84.4m.
As in previous helped to offset the impact on operating which amounted to low, single digit years, the largest region by revenue was the margins from lower volumes.
percentages across the Australian business Americas, principally the USA, which as a whole, which we believe were appropriate accounted for 42% of the divisions revenue Our business in Chile, which is focused on the in the exceptional market conditions in order 2012: 44%, followed by Asia Pacific, buoyant copper industry, performed well and to maintain our market leading position in the principally Australia, with 41% 2012: 38%.
continued to develop: we now have over 150 Australian mining industry.
Through careful service engineers in place.
With the ECSs results for the year were below those of management of our own costs, we were able expectation of continued further growth in the record achieved in 2012 as the mining to reduce the impact of these price reductions global demand for copper, we see considerable industries in the USA and then subsequently in on our own financial performance.
potential for this region in the future.
Australia saw markedly weaker trading Despite the commodity price falls, for most of environments than in recent years, with lower Asia Pacific the year, the volume of iron ore and coal commodity prices impacting sentiment ECSs business in Asia Pacific is mined in Australia continued to grow.
In the face of lower predominantly located in Australia, where products and services are critical to miners demand for our conveyor belting and related ECSs customers are some of the largest and ability to ship the material extracted.
By the services, we acted promptly to reduce manned lowest cost producers of thermal coal, end of the financial year, there was some capacity and overhead costs.
However, by the metallurgical coal and iron ore. cautious resumption of expenditures deferred end of the year, ECSs trading conditions in the In Australia, the first quarter of the financial from earlier on in the year.
USA had shown some signs of recovery and, in year saw a continuation of the strong trading Australia, conditions appeared to be In November 2012, we acquired Australian environment from the previous year.
In other regions, demand was Conveyor Engineering ACE.
Services and from the second quarter onwards, prices of generally stronger throughout the year.
non-belt products are important parts of our iron ore and coal began to fall.
Although business in Australia, accounting for around Americas volumes, particularly of iron ore, remained one-half of revenue, and this acquisition has The USA is the largest market for ECS.
In the strong, these price falls reduced profitability increased our ability to provide our customers last quarter of the 2012 financial year, we saw and damaged the sentiment of our mining in Australia with a complete service offering.
markedly lower order intake as exceptionally customers who responded by seeking to low prices for natural gas caused some shortreduce their operating costs and expenditure.
We successfully commissioned the expansion term switching away from coal as a source of of our Kwinana plant in Western Australia, The immediate impact on our ECS business energy for electricity generation.
Overall which is described in more detail on page 16. was a reduction in demand for our products as demand for electricity also reduced due to miners deferred planned maintenance such as economic uncertainty and subsequent milder We have continued to develop our presence in belt renewals, even though this carried with it winter weather.
the growth economies of India and China.
In the increased risk of failures at their facilities.
India, coal mining continues to grow, although ECSs order intake started to show some There was a less pronounced fall in demand at a slower rate than some previous improvement from the start of 2013 as natural for our services as miners increasingly sought projections.
In China, the coal market has gas prices rose and maintained levels above to make do and mend, which helped to been characterised by excess supply and those at which key US coal producing areas maintain the overall performance of our falling coal prices which has led to many mine regained their competitiveness in the supply business at this time, endorsing our focus on closures.
In both countries, the market for of fuel for power generation.
The recovery in the aftermarket.
belting is competitive, with a large number of demand for coal for use in power generation local manufacturers producing low quality As the year progressed, we increasingly was assisted by generally improving economic worked with our mining customers to help belt with a considerable emphasis on price conditions across the USA.
them achieve the cost reductions needed to rather than the belts performance Against this background, ECSs financial enable them to operate profitably in a lower characteristics.
We have been successful in performance in the USA in 2013 was behind price environment.
This included, for example, maintaining and extending our position as a CASE STUDY ECS in new markets As a global provider of locally engineered solutions, ECS supports its customers wherever they are, often opening a local service branch to support the installation and maintenance of conveyor systems, particularly the belt.
As well as providing a base for skilled technicians and their equipment, stocks of frequently requested belting and other components are held.
ECSs recent expansion into new markets has included the opening of branches in Chile, Dubai, Morocco and Ghana.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 7 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results supplier of high-performance belt for certain aftermarket applications in the oil & gas, Advanced Engineered Products critical applications.
construction and mining equipment and other In 2013, AEP generated record results with industries.
revenue of 270.8m 2012: 237.2m and Europe, Middle East & Africa underlying operating profit of 46.8m 2012: Overall, the outcome for the year was very During the first half of the year, there was 43.6m.
pleasing, with revenue from new customers reduced demand from customers in the oil & and markets offsetting declines in our more gas industry, particularly as the drilling of A particular feature of the years result is that conventional gas wells was reduced by lower traditional markets and with margins showing customers in the oil & gas and medical a noticeable improvement.
In addition, there was reduced industries accounted for 40% of AEPs revenue demand for Hallites seals from OEMs located 2012: 33% : we believe that these industries We experienced lower volumes in western and in the USA, partly reflecting conditions in offer superior growth and margin opportunities southern European markets, caused by the export markets.
Trading subsequently and we will continue to invest in them.
continuing decline of coal mining in these recovered, particularly in relation to the oil & regions and generally unfavourable conditions The full year result reflects contrasting gas industry, and FAST made a significant in the construction industry.
These were offset performances between the first and second contribution to the improvement in AEPs by progress in export markets, particularly in halves of the year.
The first half of the year financial results in the second half of the year.
Africa and the Middle East, which was saw general economic concerns in the USA, the divisions principal market.
The US The acquisition of Norwegian Seals has given supported by the opening of new service units us access to additional subsea oil and gas in Dubai and Ghana.
governments fiscal position and the overall technology and, together with our existing pace of economic recovery led to channel In southern Africa, ECS continued to supply destocking amongst AEPs distributors and presence in the USA and Singapore, extends solid woven belt to the domestic coal mining our coverage of subsea customers globally.
This resulted in a half industry.
Progress was also made in We acquired American Industrial Plastics to year financial result which was behind that increasing sales of steel cord belt to iron ore achieved in the first half of 2012. extend our precision machining capabilities to mines and expanding the service offering.
serve both the oil & gas and medical device The division saw an improvement in trading markets.
A principal event of the year was the conditions during the second half of the year successful commissioning of the steel cord as the economic outlook in the USA generally Precision Polymers belt plant in the Netherlands.
When combined with measures Precision Polymers comprises: Fenner enhances our ability to serve customers taken to strengthen the business, this led to a Precision, which supplies bespoke belts and outside our core markets of the USA and much improved financial performance.
similar components for office equipment: Australia with a full range of heavyweight Underlying operating profit for the second half Fenner Drives, which supplies belts and belts.
was a record 27.7m, compared to 19.1m in related components for power transmission the first half.
The underlying operating margin applications: James Dawson, which in the second half was 19.1%.
Further information on ECS is set out in the manufactures high performance hoses for Divisional Review on pages 13 to 16 heavy duty diesel engines: and Mandals, At the beginning of the year, AEP made three which was acquired in September 2012 and acquisitions, all of which have been which manufactures lay-flat hoses for successfully integrated and have performed applications including fracking.
Precision Polymers generated revenue and AEP is organised into three product groups: operating profit which were appreciably ahead Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies: of the previous year.
Mandals had a Precision Polymers: and Solesis Medical.
particularly successful year, with a significant Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies increase in demand from oilfield operators for Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies hoses for use in fracking applications in the FAST designs and manufactures USA and Canada.
The industry is switching performance-critical seals for original from rigid pipes to lay-flat hoses, which offer equipment manufacturers OEMs and for considerable advantages in terms of ease of CASE STUDY Renewable Energy - Crux Seals Fenner Precision, in partnership with Crux tongue seals are proven by their use in the Products Limited, is using its fabrication two largest offshore wind farms operating skills and polymer know-how to in the world: Greater Gabbard opened in manufacture fabric reinforced polymer August 2013 and the London Array.
grout and tongue seals for oil and gas rigs and wind energy structures in offshore wind farms.
Designed to work in the hostile undersea environment of the North Sea, these seals are a key part of the passive systems used to install offshore wind turbine masts, contrasting favourably with the older, inflatable, active systems.
The competitive advantages of these grout and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 8 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued transportation and laying and in which field Solesis Medical number of existing products are currently Solesis Medical comprises: Secant Medical, being marketed and are expected to achieve Mandals is a market leader.
As a result, which manufactures textile components for higher volumes in the future.
However, Mandals achieved a financial outcome for the Secants performance in 2013 was impacted permanently implanted medical devices: and year well ahead of expectations at the time it by a customers vertical integration of a Xeridiem, which manufactures complete, was acquired and we have commenced production process and another customer single use disposable devices, mainly used for expansion of Mandals plant in Norway to facing a significant delay in obtaining Federal enteral feeding.
Both businesses are located meet future demand.
in the USA and primarily sell to customers Fenner Precision and Fenner Drives both located there.
Xeridiem saw a much improved financial experienced soft demand for their products performance as revenues from device sales We believe that both businesses serve for most of the year, reflecting conditions and development activities increased.
segments of the medical market which, with amongst their OEM customers, although progressively ageing and sedentary some improvement was apparent in the later Further information on AEP is set out in the populations in the USA and other developed months.
James Dawson saw lower demand Divisional Review on pages 17 to 20 nations, are likely to offer superior growth.
for hoses used in large diesel engines for use in applications such as mining equipment, Secant is continuing to develop a strong although this situation improved through the pipeline of products which are expected to second half.
reach the market in the next few years.
A Strategic goals In last years Annual Report, I identified our strategy as being to increase market share and target new value added product areas to create a strong, growing and resilient company for the coming decades.
The table below sets out progress against our strategic goals and our aims for the near future.
Objectives Examples of what we have done Examples of what we expect to do in the future Strong We expect to maintain capital Invest in human capital We have strengthened the management expenditure in excess of depreciation teams in AEP and ECS Extend intellectual property We will continue to invest in the inventory We have strengthened and grown our Groups human capital and asset base Maintain and improve knowledge base business infrastructure We have introduced more suitable pension We will continue to finance the Group arrangements in the UK Sustain a secure balance using retained earnings and longsheet Our borrowings are long-term and term borrowings financial covenants are robust Growing Maximise organic and We have positioned the Group for further ECS is targeting emerging acquired growth growth in emerging markets economies in South America and Africa Increase focus on faster ECS has opened service centres in Chile, growing emerging markets Dubai, Morocco and Ghana AEP will pursue opportunities outside its traditional US markets Identify fast growing AEP has successfully acquired and applications integrated businesses focused on the oil AEP sees the oil & gas and medical & gas industry industries as areas for further growth Resilient Performance-critical We have continued to diversify our ECS ECS will continue to increase its business away from its traditional reliance service offerings to customers in Aftermarket focus on belting for thermal coal existing and new markets Balanced portfolio ECS has developed a more comprehensive We will use AEPs expertise to Exposure to long-term service offering than any other major identify and develop new products growth markets belting group Where appropriate, we will use AEPs positioning with  to increase our critical products, external certifications exposure to long-term growth and logistical support protect its markets relationships with customers Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 9 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results ensuring satisfactory performance.
These higher revenue investment in these areas is Health and safety qualitative indicators are complemented by planned.
We also expect capital expenditure in The Group has an overriding commitment to quantitative measurements including 2014 to be slightly ahead of 2013.
We will provide a safe and secure working customer surveys and on time in full pursue value-accretive acquisition environment which extends beyond our performance.
While some operations are opportunities, which we see as being more employees to employees of other companies dependent on a small number of customers, likely in AEP.
working on our behalf as well as to Fenners largest customer accounts for less customers, visitors and neighbours who may Overall, we continue to expect that the current than 6% of revenue.
be affected by our activities.
Accordingly, I financial year will see a return to growth.
would like to extend my thanks to all those Fenner uses a wide range of materials, from involved in reducing the lost time incident thousands of tonnes of rubber compound to a frequency rate LTIFR by 37% to 1.08 few hundred grammes of biomaterials, so our incidents for every 200,000 hours worked and operations work closely with selected specifically employees on our Houston sites suppliers to ensure that our customers who passed 1,000,000 hours without incident benefit from the latest technical in August.
developments in materials and processes.
The majority of these relationships are in the Fenner promotes health and safety as a key Nicholas Hobson normal course of business, ensuring quality, element in the culture of each of its Chief Executive Officer continuity of supply and competitive operations.
The Health & Safety Management 13 November 2013 commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and System Framework The Framework usually relating to technical developments, provides structure and guidance to all relationships are formally documented.
In operations, irrespective of size, to deliver 2013, most Fenner operations saw stable continuous improvement within our unique material prices and adequate availability.
culture of autonomy with accountability.
Close cooperation with established suppliers Providing services at customer facilities is a and the active development of new sources growing part of our business.
Often these has ensured, and continues to ensure, customers demand sound health and safety continuity of supply, consistent quality and management systems.
For such customers, technical leadership.
The Framework, our health and safety Outlook management systems and the associated training are a significant and unique selling Fenner is well positioned as we enter our 2014 financial year, with the benefit of the proposition.
investments made in both divisions over Employees recent years, a strong financial position and a All our operations have processes that require mixed but generally improving global high levels of proficiency and technical economic environment.
Some of those skills are not Against a background of increasing global available in the general workforce in every mineral extraction tonnages, sentiment region, therefore, we have continued with our amongst our mining customers in Australia commitment to training and development.
In and the USA is gradually improving as they our ECS operations, employee numbers were seek to optimise the operating efficiency of adjusted to meet reduced demand: restricting their existing installed capacity, assisted in shift patterns and reducing overtime enable the case of Australia by a weaker currency.
As us to retain key skills and to allow for a supplier of mining consumables and improvements in demand.
services, our ECS division expects to benefit Fenner continues to benefit from a skilled and from the industrys cautious return to more committed workforce in both our acquired and normal maintenance and replacement existing operations.
importance of our employees contribution to As we continue with the strategic the performance of the Group.
Productivity development of our ECS division towards and, in the service operation the utilisation of emerging markets and hard rock mining, we our employees, are key factors to Fenners expect to make further progress in Latin success.
America, Africa and the Middle East.
More information on health, safety and AEP entered the 2014 financial year with a environmental matters and our employees positive trading momentum in all of its can be found on pages 49 to 54 businesses, assisted by signs of continued, steady economic improvement in the USA.
We Customers and suppliers have targeted the oil & gas and medical From large multinational oil, gas and mining markets as offering growth opportunities and companies to the smallest medical start-up, AEPs businesses serving these segments across thousands of customers, each Group remain well positioned to out-perform.
operation ensures it is meeting its customers expectations.
Experienced sales teams We intend to continue to invest in the future of maintain close contact with customers, the Group.
Human capital and knowledge are providing feedback on those expectations and vital to our success, particularly in AEP and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 10
