Chief Executives strategic review Our opportunity Our objective is to provide sustainable, integrated transport services that are safe, reliable and meet the needs of the customers and the communities we serve.
We have established a diverse portfolio of assets in a sector which is a key enabler of economic growth.
Effective transport links are essential to the prosperity of any economy, and whilst the needs of any one local or regional community may be different, as we look ahead, the unrelenting move towards urbanisation means that we can be certain that congestion will be a feature of the future.
It is companies like ours with the necessary breadth and scale, and collective expertise and capability spanning two continents, that will be able to provide efficient solutions to congestion.
Capital structure In May 2013 we announced a rights issue to raise approximately 615m, which will remove the constraints of our current balance sheet and provide the necessary flexibility to continue our transformation plans and invest to create sustainable, long term value.
Tim OToole Chief Executive The decisions we have taken this year will position the Group to deliver improved growth, and return us to a profile of consistent financial returns and cash generation.
Over the next four years we aim to Our services help to create strong, vibrant increase Group revenue excluding UK Rail at a faster rate than the and sustainable local economies and our 1 economies we serve, improve margins in First Student and UK Bus to double digit levels, and achieve a post-tax return on capital opportunity is to be the provider of choice employed ROCE in the 10% to 12% range.
We aim to maintain for our customers and communities.
an investment grade credit rating and appropriate balance sheet liquidity and headroom and, as the business performance improves, We are the largest transport operator in the UK and North America to re-establish a progressive dividend policy to target 2.0 to 2.5 times and each day, every one of our 120,000 employees works hard to dividend cover.
deliver vitally important services for our passengers.
During the last year more than 2.5 billion passengers relied on us to get to work, Future outlook to education, to visit family and friends and for much more.
The actions we are taking will create a more robust company and one that is better placed to face its challenges, deliver on its promises and In May of this year, Martin Gilbert announced his intention to stand take advantage of future opportunities.
As a result I believe that we are down as Chairman, once a successor has been identified.
On behalf in a stronger position now with greater clarity and confidence in our of the Board and our employees, I would like to pay tribute to Martin wayforward.
and thank him for his outstanding contribution to the Company.
As Chairman and a founder, his vision and drive have led the transformation of the Group, and under his stewardship the business has grown to become one of the worlds leading transport operators.
The estimated impact of IAS 19 is set out on page 39.
Our vision and values Committed to our customers Accountable for performance Our vision is to provide solutions for We keep our customers at the Every decision matters, we do the an increasingly congested world... heart of everything we do.
right thing to achieve our goals.
keeping people moving and Dedicated to safety Setting the highest standards communities prospering.
Always front of mind, safety is our We want to be the best, way of life.
continually seeking a better way to do things.
Supportive of each other We trust each other to deliver and work to help one another succeed.
04 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Actions taken this year Future priorities This year has been a significant one for the While we are pleased with progress in the year, Group as we moved ahead with our plans for our significant opportunities remain ahead of us.
Our business improvement the next four years, we intend to invest approximately programmes are at different stages across each 1.6bn across the Group to continue our transformation ofour divisions, but over this year we have programmes and take advantage of growth prioritisedthe following areas: opportunities.
The key priorities in delivering our plans and generating long term, sustainable value forshareholders and our other stakeholders include: First Student We are reforming the operating model to create a more efficient To continue to execute the ongoing recovery plan by improving cost structure through improving labour productivity, streamlining operational efficiency with a view to targeting double digit operating systems to reduce bureaucracy, standardising operating margins in the medium term, including by ultimately driving up procedures and applying best practice.
We are expanding our contract retention rates above 90%, taking advantage of the use of innovative technology, reducing maintenance costs opportunities to win new contracts as state authorities and school through uniform practices and reducing fuel costs through boards continue to outsource their student bus services, and enhanced driver training.
returning to a selective in-fill acquisition strategy to enhance growth, at the appropriate levels and time.
First Transit We have strengthened our core business units in First Transit, To continue to achieve strong growth and maintain operating anddisposed of non-core operations during the year.
We are margins while investing to take advantage of key outsourcing seeing a steady pipeline of new contract wins including additional opportunities, including the expansion of our shuttle bus paratransit services and, going forward, we plan to increase our operations, particularly on university campuses and in the focus on higher growth operations such as our shuttle bus Canadian oil fields.
We are also placing more emphasis on technological innovation in the division.
Greyhound We have significantly transformed Greyhounds operating model We will invest in infrastructure and IT, including new reservation tocreate a more flexible and agile business, including through and ticketing systems, to drive operational efficiencies, facilitate improvements in technology, right sizing and relocating terminals, better yield management and thereby seek to achieve growth in purchasing new vehicles and refurbishing our existing fleet.
We are excess of GDP, as we have achieved in BoltBus and Greyhound expanding our Greyhound Express services, building on the Express.
Further capital expenditure will also be made to renew inherent strength of our unique national network, as well as and refurbish the Greyhound fleet and to continue to fund the developing bespoke brands for niche markets.
addition of new routes and services.
UK Bus During the year we rebalanced our UK Bus portfolio through a To improve operating margins, on a post-IAS 19, basis to programme of selected business and asset disposals.
We are double digit levels in the medium term by continuing our depot improving efficiency by standardising our maintenance and operating transformation programme, network redesign plans, reducing the procedures, investing in our bus fleet and adjusting the commercial fleet age to be closer in line with our peers, as well as improving model to be more responsive locally and to enhance patronage growth.
our information provision and smart ticketing capabilities to support volume growth.
UK Rail We continue to focus on operating performance across all of our Ensuring our management expertise and capital strength UK Rail operations, including prioritising the introduction of new smart continues to support our plans to participate in a range of future ticketing and passenger information technology.
We are working franchise competitions and tenders and maintain our market closely with our partners to deliver infrastructure and capacity leading position.
Contract extensions are being negotiated for two of our franchises, and we remain committed to maintaining our leading position in the rail market as the DfTs franchising process restarts.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
