CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT STEVE CORBETT CHIEF EXECUTIVE Overview 2013 was Alents first full year as an independent company.
During the year, we have made considerable progress in developing our strategy and prioritising the goals and We are focused aspirations that will drive the future performance of our business.
Throughout this report I will provide an overview on continuing the of our performance in year one.
transition of the Our first year was not without its challenges.
Our principal electronics end-market contracted during the course of business and 2013.
Consumer confidence remained subdued during the year, negatively impacting demand for electronic products.
delivering on Industry forecasts for global electronic equipment revenue growth were modified downward throughout the year, with our commitment industry analysts now estimating a decline of 2.9% for full year 2013, down from the 4.5% growth forecast at the to shareholders.
Personal computer unit volume was a key underperforming end-market.
Other high unit volume electronic applications such as flat screen TVs experienced little, or negative unit growth during 2013.
Whilst China continued to grow, there was weaker demand for new products and technologies which had a significant impact on electronics end-markets.
Eurozone markets were weak although slightly improving in the second half of 2013.
Automotive and industrial markets have been mixed, with Western European automotive contracting 2% during the year, whilst NAFTA and Asia Pacific have grown 4% and 6% respectively.
Against this challenging end-market backdrop, Alent delivered a solid financial performance during the year.
Group NSV increased 0.8% down 1.4% at constant currency rates to 420.1m 2012: 416.7m, demonstrating our ability to outperform the majority of our end-markets.
NSV in our Assembly Materials business increased 0.7% down 0.9% at constant currency rates with growth impacted by underlying weak end-markets, limited new product launches from a number of global OEMs and subdued consumer confidence.
NSV in our Surface Chemistries business increased 0.9% down 2.0% at constant currency rates with solid growth in both our Performance Coatings and Printed Circuit Board segments through share capture offset by lower sales of copper damascene.
10 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION In line with our strategy, we continued to focus on higherKey strengths margin, enhanced technology products, and harvesting Our key strengths as set out on pages 14 to 23 will enable more mature products.
The strong relationships we have us to deliver on our strategy.
Our key strengths are our: with our customers give us a valuable insight into their position as a global market leader: needs and keeps us at the centre of their organisations.
competitive advantage through our OEM-focused We have continued to resource and expand our OEM strategy supported by our R&D capabilities and global marketing and selling initiative and have largely held or manufacturing footprint: improved our market share position in most product lines.
financial strength to support organic growth and bolt-on Key to our strategy is our continued investment in the M&A: and business for the long-term and as such, we maintained our R&D spend at 4% of NSV.
outperformance of our long-term end-markets through the cycle.
Across all of our product segments, the pricing environment remained stable, despite weaker endWe believe these strengths will enable us to deliver longmarkets.
Cost control remains tight and disciplined.
term growth and sustainable margin improvement.
We have continued to restructure our business to further Our people optimise our manufacturing footprint and reduce the Overall, I am pleased with the excellent performance weve operating cost base.
delivered in a challenging operating environment and Id Group adjusted operating profit decreased 3.2% down like to thank our people for their support and effort over the 5.4% at constant currency rates to 94.1m 2012: 97.2m year.
We have some 2,500 talented people in Alent who and Group NSV margin decreased 0.9pts to 22.4% 2012: are committed to delivering on our strategy.
Excluding the mix effect of the lower copper are our greatest asset and are critical to our future success damascene sales, NSV margin was broadly maintained.
and I look forward to another year of continued progress in delivering on our plans.
Operating cash generation during the year has been very strong, leading to reduced net debt and a Outlook strengthening of our balance sheet.
Adjusted cash We will continue to drive the future performance of our generated from operations was 102.8m 2012: 86.0m business with: and represented a cash conversion of 99.7% of EBITDA, our focus on high unit growth end-markets: an improvement of 22.8pts from our 2012 cash conversion our differentiated value-add customer strategy: of 76.9%.
The improvement was largely driven by lower our ongoing R&D investment to expand our market, working capital due to a combination of lower raw material technology and innovation leadership: costs and improved working capital management.
our focus on cost control and efficiency improvements: We have continued to invest in the business with both and R&D and capital expenditure.
Our manufacturing footprint our financial strength to support organic growth continues to be strengthened with our new Surface and acquisitions.
Chemistries facility in Shanghai now being commissioned and construction of the new facility in Chennai, India to We anticipate the automotive end-market will continue to be commissioned during 2014. grow on a global basis but it is more difficult to predict how the overall electronics industry will develop.
We expect to Our strategy see the transition from traditional PCs to tablets continuing The key elements of our strategy are to: and smartphone unit growth beginning to slow.
We focus on high unit growth end-markets: anticipate overall consumer confidence to improve as leverage our differentiated value-add customer strategy: global economies expand, leading to a modest increase continue to develop higher-margin products: in demand for consumer electronics.
improve mix and operational efficiencies: Whilst visibility remains limited, we expect to make progress further invest in R&D to expand our market, technology over the course of the year, with our normal seasonal and innovation leadership: and improvement in the second half, although foreign exchange translation will be a headwind at current rates.
leverage our financial strength to support organic growth and acquisitions.
Throughout this report, we set out the progress we have made against our strategic objectives.
Whilst the strategy STEVE CORBETT has evolved as we progressed through the year, the key CHIEF EXECUTIVE elements of the strategy as set out on page 12 of this report 4 MARCH 2014 remain unchanged.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 11
