A Conversation with our Chief Executive Our focus on cost cutting and operational efficiency remains morerelevant than ever.
Investing in long-term growth across metal price cycles will always be a hallmark of our strategy, but prudent capital allocation is critical to maintaining the right balance.
Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive officer | 14 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Our embedded Much has happened in your Does this relate to the delay cash costs are still Q: first full year as Chief Executive Q: in expanding processing capacity amongst the lowest in the industry of Fresnillo plc.
How would you atthe Fresnillo mine?
We always want to maximise current A:capacity before adding any additional overhead, By all indications this was indeed a challenging and more development work inside the mine is required A:year.
The decline in precious metal prices, a to ensure sufficient material to feed a larger plant.
Also, complex legal case resulting in vacating some of our assets the original expansion rationale took into consideration an and lowering our gold production, unproductive costs related expected rise in lead and zinc ore grades that would slow to that issue, the elevation of certain risks facing our operation, recovery rates and affect production volumes.
with the delay in accessing higher ore grades, this has not But given those factors, and in fact despite those factors, been a factor.
That said, we have already completed some there were a number of bright spots.
We exceeded our silver work on the expansion in terms of site evaluation and production targets: the new dynamic leaching plant was basic engineering.
completed on plan and on budget: construction continues at the new San Julin and Saucito II mines: exploration efforts With continued volatility and yielded a number of interesting prospects: and despite new and tougher industry criteria and lower prices used for Q: downward pressure on metal estimation, our total resources went up in the year.
prices, has your operational In fact, it is a testament to the quality of our assets that lower strategy shifted?
metal prices had such a limited impact on our reserves and resources estimate, and thus mine life.
Fortunately, thanks to our low cash costs A:and conservative balance sheet, Fresnillo We also made good progress on most of our social and can withstand a fair amount of volatility and still remain sustainability goals, with important improvements in safety profitable whilst continuing to fund its growth projects and indices.
That said, it saddens and frustrates me that we had 2013 investment exploration programme.
two fatalities in the year, so clearly there is still work to do, in exploration especially with contractors.
Notwithstanding, our focus on cost cutting and operational and capex efficiency remains more relevant than ever: that means From a financial perspective, our embedded cash costs extracting the most economically viable material, enhancing are still amongst the lowest in the industry, allowing US$779.9 the use of technology, and putting greater focus on us to maintain healthy margins.
We declared and paid current mining districts where we can leverage our own US$505.2 million in dividends while investing US$779.9 million million infrastructure.
Keep in mind that costs for exploration in exploration and capex, underscoring our commitment to and drilling have actually come down substantially, so balancing shareholder returns and long-term growth.
we will advance at similar rates going forward but with a Lastly, on a more personal note, I am delighted that lower investment.
In terms of capex, we will continue to our management team and Executive Committee have monitor any changes to our operating assumptions and act expanded to include Roberto Daz as Chief Operating accordingly, always favouring actions that accelerate cash officer.
His vast experience in mining operations and project ow and deferring expenditures that do not sacrifice the development will serve our growth plans well, as does his optimal timing of our projects.
commitment to safety and sustainability.
Looking at the agship Fresnillo Q: mine, silver ore grades continued to decline year over year, even more so than anticipated.
Our agship Fresnillo mine more than 500 years old remains a What can we expect going forward?
profitable base on which to grow First, let me clarify that what we saw in 2013 was A:a combination of the natural decline of the ore grade in the deeper areas of the San Carlos vein, which we expected, combined with certain structural difficulties in developing new rich areas of the Santa Cruz and San Mateo veins.
Thus, production was largely limited to lower ore grade stopes.
We expect average ore grades in 2014 to remain at 281 gpt and then gradually decline over the next few years to the ore grade currently in reserves, 271 gpt.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 15 A Conversation with our Chief Executive continued Do the legal issues the Company Looking ahead, what Q: faced in 2013 have broader Q: opportunities are you implications for the business?
What made those legal proceedings take on We havent talked much about it yet, but I am A:greater signicance for us was that vacating the A:very enthusiastic about our prospects in the surface land at Dipolos and dismantling the plant meant we Guanajuato district where we obtained very good results would have to suspend operations at its adjacent sister mine at a number of vein systems and increased total gold Soledad, as the two sites had always been conceived as a and silver resources in the district by 5.7% and 36.9%, single unit with shared infrastructure, and not expected to be respectively.
Notably, we have much of the infrastructure economically viable on their own.
Furthermore, we faced a in place to potentially operate a mine, having resumed temporary halt on blasting at the Herradura mine about 8 km control of the Torres mining concessions, mill and surface away because of their shared explosives permit.
This issue land, which we had previously leased to a junior company, has since been resolved and operations are back to normal and the Guanajuato district as a whole has the roads, at Herradura.
power, water and experienced labour pool to support such an operation.
While the incident at Dipolos only related to the claims of one ejido community, unfortunately these kinds of cases are now on the rise in Mexico.
We gained important lessons from this, Silver resources What are your priorities and now having elevated the risk of land access, we apply a in the Guanajuato Q: for 2014?
very rigorous set of controls to mitigate it.
district rose 36.9% Youll nd our strategy, objectives and targets The security risk has also moved A:covered in great detail throughout this report, Q: up.
Have you seen more impact all of which are aimed at advancing us towards our 2018 goal of producing 65 million ounces of silver per year onoperations and projects?
and 500,000 ounces of gold profitably and sustainably.
There has been an increase in the number not Therefore let me elaborate on the key areas I am A:necessarily severity of incidents, and whilst personally focused on: people, reserves and resources, production hasnt been impacted at this point, we must and capital allocation.
dedicate more time and resources to secure our people and Without safety, security, health and wellbeing, our assets.
In fact, this was one of the factors that inuenced our workforce is compromised.
Fresnillos people, therefore, decision to defer San Julin.
We are working together with remain my number one priority.
We still have work to do federal and local authorities to take preventive measures.
on our Safety Action Plan, and Im looking at our talent development programmes and diversity initiatives as well.
How do Mexicos new mining Second, our reserves and resources are the foundation and future of the Company.
We must maximise our Q: duties enacted as part of assets and continue to look for new sources of growth.
the scal reforms impact I am particularly focused on converting resources into your competitiveness?
reserves, as this is one of the strongest indicators of future production.
Theres no doubt that these new charges make Lastly, I am cognisant of the demand for shareholder A:Mexico somewhat less competitive for the mining returns in the current economic environment.
Investing in industry than the country had been previously, particularly long-term growth across metal price cycles will always be to junior miners.
I imagine the competitive landscape will a hallmark of our strategy, but prudent capital allocation change as the financial burden on operators increases.
is critical to maintaining the right balance.
Ill be keeping a close eye on development and exploration projects to ensure that capital expenditures remain tightly aligned with our ROI criteria.
I am encouraged by our progress already in these first months of the year, and remain committed to excellence in execution as we look ahead.
| 16 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance What we said we would do in 2013 What we did in 2013 What we plan to do in 2014 More info Improve safety performance: Two fatalities, compared to six in 2012: Continuous improvement in safety Pages meet our zero fatalities target improvement in other indicators performance: meet our zero 81-83 fatalities target Attributable silver production to remain Exceeded target at 42.7 moz Attributable silver production Page stable at41moz, including Silverstream of 43 moz, including Silverstream 57 Attributable gold production to reach Produced 425,831 oz, which reected the Attributable gold production Page 490,000 ounces 2H 2013 suspensions at Herradura and of 450,000 oz 57 Soledad-Dipolos Exploration budget of US$279.6 million Risk capital invested in exploration reduced Conclude construction of Saucito II Pages including capitalised exploration expenses to US$233.3 million in light of precious in 4Q2014, advance San Julin towards 70-71 metals prices 2015 start-up Commission the dynamic leaching plant Met target Continue optimisation at Cinega and Pages at Herradura in 4Q 2013 initiate expansion of milling capacity: 62-63, 71 conduct detailed engineering for the pyrites plant in the Fresnillo district, and pending Board approval, initiate construction in 2H 2014 Conclude construction of the pumping Met construction target: continued Exploration budget of US$225.0 million Page station at Centauro Deep: continue exploration activities and increased including capitalised exploration 57 exploration activities to increase resources resources to 2.2 moz attributable gold expenses, focused on converting resources to reserves Conclude detailed engineering at San Julin Met engineering target and construction Conclude evaluation for expansion Pages and continue construction of the processing continued: start-up deferred to 2H 2015 of the Mega Centauro pit: pending 64-65 plant: start-up expected in 2H 2014 approval, initiate stripping activities Submit the Saucito II silver project for Project approved: construction progressing Increase resources at the Centauro Pages Board approval in 1Q 2013: begin ahead of schedule, with delivery set for Deep project 64-65 construction in 2H 2013 4Q 2014 Evaluate expansion of the main pit Conducted additional exploration and Review and upgrade our energy Pages at Herradura Mega Centauro and evaluation of Mega Centauro: Fresnillo and climate change, water, land 84-87 an integrated growth plan in the district evaluation determined that and biodiversity strategies Fresnillo district additional mine development is required inpreparation for a possible expansion Cost control initiatives to mitigate the Achieved US$27.4 million in efficiencies Continue to advance the maturity Pages expected ination in operating materials, of our HSECR system 76-78 increased stripping ratios and longer haulage distances | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 17
