Chief Executive Offi cers review Focused on sustainable, profi table growth Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Offi cer This has been an extremely challenging year for G4S.
We have taken clear action to address long-standing issues and have introduced wide-ranging changes to strengthen our business.
We can now look to the future with increasing confi dence, focusing on the growing demand for G4S services that underpins our plans to deliver sustainable, profi table growth.
A YEAR OF CHANGE I was delighted to join G4S in May 2013 and to take up the role of group CEO in June.
In my fi first few months, I travelled around the group, meeting senior managers and colleagues working in different regions and at many levels in our organisation and I also had the opportunity to visit some of our operations and customers.
This confi rmed my view that G4S has considerable unrealised potential.
In order to address that potential in a focused and disciplined way, we conducted a strategy and business review, evaluating our position and prospects in each of our key markets around the world.
While the review confi rmed the strength of our global market positions, it also identifi ed the need for wide ranging changes which, over time, we expect to transform the groups ability to deliver sustainable, profi table growth.
4 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Group values GROUP STRATEGY Our group values underpin the reputation and long-term value of the G4S is the worlds leading global, integrated security company, group.
We have updated and reinforced awareness and understanding specialising in the provision of security products, services and solutions of our group values to ensure that we conduct our business to the to customers across six continents.
We are enhancing health and safety across the group Our strategy is market led everything begins with the customer.
by standardising safety management systems and embedding health and We seek to understand our customers strategic and commercial safety objectives in individual performance contracts.
objectives and from there we design and deliver solutions which Competitive strengths support those objectives.
Our aim is simple and clear: it is to create Our review concluded that our competitive position needed to be sustainable shareholder value through the consistent delivery of strengthened in a number of key markets.
During the second half of excellence in three areas: customer service, operational performance the year we established major restructuring programmes, with detailed and fi financial management.
plans to invest 68 million over 2013 and 2014 and these are now As noted above, the strategic review we conducted in 2013 identifi ed being implemented.
We expect the economic, fi financial and the need for wide-ranging changes which we have captured in the performance benefi ts to be realised over the next 12 to 36 months.
form of a number of strategic priorities.
Im pleased to report that Cost leadership progress has been made in each of these areas: We recognised the growing importance of cost leadership and Strategic focus and portfolio management following systematic benchmarking we established a number of At the start of the year we were operating in more than 125 countries effi ciency programmes.
These include focus on direct labour effi ciency, with several lines of business in each country.
By assessing the strategic organisational effi ciency, vehicle route planning and telematics, IT fi t, performance and prospects of each of these businesses, we standardisation, procurement and shared services.
identifi ed 35 businesses which required action to be taken to realise full Performance management value for shareholders, through turn-around, restructuring or disposal.
We re-defi ned our performance measures and incentives, putting in As a result, we are actively managing the groups portfolio, divesting a place measures and performance management processes which focus number of non-core businesses, and have generated cash proceeds of on customers needs, sustainable profi t and cash fl ow.
I believe this 124 million to date.
Our work in this area continues and, subject to provides clear and strong alignment between management priorities value accretive terms being achieved, we may make further disposals.
Organic investment While we still have much to do, I have been enormously encouraged by Our review concluded that we were under-investing in organic the positive engagement from colleagues across the group who have growth and technology and innovation.
The group is now investing an embraced these changes and demonstrated extraordinary commitment additional 15 to 20 million in 2014 to strengthen sales and business to our customers and to G4S.
Im grateful for their skill and dedication, development capability and to extend our technology and innovation which remain critical to our success.
across the group both important catalysts for future growth.
Balance sheet fl exibility Given the scale and quality of our organic growth opportunity and the level of net debt at the start of the year, we raised 343 million through the successful placing of 140.9 million new shares.
Capital discipline and Risk management The groups capital allocation and contract review processes have been strengthened to ensure that all investment opportunities compete for STRATEGIC EXECUTION capital in a single pool and are evaluated against a stringent set of economic and risk criteria.
To see in more detail how we plan to deliver our focused strategy to deliver sustainable, profi table growth please People see pages 8 to 27.
Our review identifi ed the need to strengthen our resource and capability in a number of key areas of the business.
Over the past nine Strategic report Strategic execution months, we have signifi cantly strengthened our senior management, People and values with 28 new appointments to the global leadership team.
AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY OUR GROUP VALUES: SUPPORTING OUR STRATEGY G4S HAS A DEDICATED WORKFORCE OF OVER 618,000 EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD % Customer focus We have close, open relationships with our customers which generate trust and we work in 6 Africa partnership for the mutual benefi t of our organisations.
9 19 Asia & Middle East Latin America Best people We employ the best people, develop their Europe competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live 11 North America our values.
UK & Ireland Integrity We can always be trusted to do the right thing.
12 Expertise We develop and demonstrate our expertise through our innovative approach to creating and delivering 43 the right solution.
Performance We seek to improve performance year on year G4S employees by region as at end Dec 2013. to create long-term sustainability.
Teamwork and collaboration We collaborate for the benefi t Our culture is defi ned by our values, beliefs and behaviours.
We seek to embed our values in all aspects of our operations and they form part of our recruitment, development and Safety fi first We prioritise safety management to protect the review processes.
Managers and employees are encouraged health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us.
and expected to behave in line with the groups values and to speak up when witnessing behaviour which does not meet In 2014, we have introduced a new value to focus specifi cally our standards.
on the safety of our colleagues and those around us.
This is supported by a number of key safety initiatives and campaigns designed to increase awareness of health and safety matters, learn from best practice and prevent health and safety incidents.
See pages 44 and 45 for further information on health and safety initiatives.
WELFARE TO WORK To date, G4S Welfare to Work has helped 35,077 long-term unemployed people in the UK into jobs.
We estimate this has saved the UK tax payer more than 120 million per annum.
The vast majority of people that we have assisted had been out of work for at least nine months, with many having been out of work for a number of years.
16 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 5
