Continuing strategic progress Chief Executives strategic review This was another year of excellent progress.
Our new Excellent progress housebuilding strategy delivered what we expected and we also benefited from better market conditions, with improving mortgage availability and aboost from the Governments Help to Buy scheme from 1 April.
As a result, housebuilding ended the year with a number of records.
It achieved record profit before tax, its highest ever year end sales in hand and its largest ever landbank at11,300 units, with opportunities to buy more land at attractive prices in a favourable land market.
A key aim of our housebuilding strategy is to increase our operatingmarginto 1718% by2018.
We expect around half themargin increase to come from higher hurdle rates on land Our performance purchases and the benefits of our strategic land development, andthe other half to come from operating more efficiently.
Wehave made solid progress towards this goal, with an11% this year shows that increase in operating margin in the year.
we have the right Construction continues to perform well in difficult conditions, with a number of good project wins.
Its order book remained strong at 1.7 billion and we have already secured most of constructions strategy to succeed.
The business, which operates across the UK, was helped by its leading position in Scotland, where We are in excellent Morrison Construction is one of the largest contractors and the market remains stronger.
We also have significant operations in shape, giving us London, which is the strongest commercial market in England.
Work in the regulated sector also continues to come through as planned.
Overall, we are seeing an improvement in the number of good momentum as construction opportunities but pricing levels remaincompetitive.
we enter the new Our strategic priorities Housebuilding and construction have distinct strategies but we have several common strategic priorities across the Group.
particular, we look to: deliver disciplined profit growth by focusing on the quality of business rather than the level of revenue, and by exploiting the synergies between housebuilding and construction to offer combined capabilities that no other group can match manage cash carefully in both businesses and take advantage of their complementary financial profiles embed the highest standards of sustainability across the Group, and in particular health & safety, recognising the financial and operational benefits of working sustainably and the upside for our stakeholders attract, develop and retain the best people, as they differentiate us from our competitors More information about our Groups strategic progress can be foundon page 12.
Our housebuilding and construction strategies are set out on pages20 and28 respectively.
Revenue Down 1% 1,559m Full Year Results interview with Greg Fitzgerald available atwww.
com investors Profit from operations Up 9% 84.1m Greg Fitzgerald Chief Executive 08 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review 913 925 640 637 Galliford Try has a distinct culture.
We deliver the best for our Sustainability customers by working with them in an open and honest way, and Health & Safety remains the Groups first priority and I am by committing to strong ethical standards.
We look to live up to particularly pleased that we further improved our health & safety our values of excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration, record this year.
The Group accident frequency rate reduced from which underpin our relationships with employees and our other 0.16 to 0.10, a reflection of our tough internal measures.
Our culture of personal care extends throughout the performance is notwithstanding a tragicfatality of a subcontractor business, which is why so many of our employees have been with at one of our sites during the year.
us for so long, with many having more than 25 years of service.
As a business, we deliver environmentally and socially responsible I would like to thank everyone in Galliford Try for their contribution projects.
We also continue to embed sustainability into our to our success this year.
The Group is well positioned and I believe operations.
This makes us more efficient, while benefiting our it is an excellent place for our people to further their careers.
On a customers, people, suppliers, communities and the environment.
personal note, I want to thank Ian Baker for his contribution as Sustainability also contributes to our ability to win work in Group Managing Director of Housebuilding, and to wish him well construction, where clients often take account of sustainability as he recovers from the illness that forced him to step down when assessing bids.
Our overall performance is shown by our membership of the FTSE4Good index.
We were also ahead of schedule in reaching Outlook our 15% carbon reduction target and launched a new campaign Each ofour businesses has aclear strategy and strong toencourage employees to further reduce our fossil fuel use, leadershipteam, and both are well placed to further benefit from potentially saving us millions of pounds over the coming years the improving outlooksin theirmarkets.
while cutting our contribution to climate change.
Following an encouraging summer our housebuilding business Working closely withlocal communities is an important part of our had record sales in hand of 405 million as at 1September 2013. sustainability efforts.
We do a considerable amount across the The business also has a record landbank with all the land it Group but we have not always recorded this centrally.
We are needsfor 2014 and, following a decision to increase land buying to therefore putting processes in place to log our community take into account continuing stable conditions, currently has 90% activities, so we canshare the full scope of what we are doing of its 2015 requirements.
Construction enjoys good levels of visibilityfollowing a number of Having the right supply chain is also crucial tosustainability.
Thebusiness currently has secured 87% of its are carefully monitoring the financial health of our subcontractors, projected workload for 2014, whilst maintaining its order book at particularly in construction where market conditions are taking 1.7 billion.
We aim to pay suppliersin agreed timescalesand to work collaboratively to help them succeed.
Both businesses are, against a background of some labour and supply challenges, maximising production to respond to strengthening customer demand and improved conditions.
People and culture Our people give us our competitive advantage.
To maintain that The board isoptimistic that the  being advantage, our HR strategy aims to develop a committed and experienced will continue through into 2014.
We will continue flexible workforce that wants to learn new skills and take on new ourstrategy of disciplined growth, to benefit from the opportunity tasks, and is able to do so.
Our Academy provides structured to strengthen our market position and performance in both training and career opportunities for our trainees and graduates, sectors.
The prospects for both businesses are encouraging and our management development framework offers learning and forthe next financial year.
development for staff at each stage of their career.
We agree these needs during each employees annual review.
Throughits Linden Homes Foundation, theGroup is actively encouraging subcontractor apprentices tolearn a trade, and is providing workplace opportunities through and following their training.
In the year to June 2013, four apprentices joined the Foundation and more are expected in future years.
Greg Fitzgerald Chief Executive Revenue by activity million Delivering in partnership Greg Fitzgerald visits The Regent development in Battersea to complete a dedicated health, safety and environment review.
Nine Group businesses came together to regenerate a brownfield siteandcreate 68 private and 32 affordable homes.
12 13 12 13 Housebuilding Construction Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 09 Chief Executives strategic review Our business model Combining our skills Graylingwell Park in West Sussex top right, Wispers Park in Surrey bottom left and The Regent in Battersea bottom right are benefiting from the combined offering ofour housebuilding and construction divisions.
Complementary businesses Strategic strengths Our hybrid business model, comprising housebuilding Reduced reliance on any one market and construction businesses, gives us a competitive Housebuilding and construction serve different advantage.
We can offer a complete package to our customers who receive their financing from development partners, with our construction division different sources.
This makes us less reliant able to remediate land, enable the site infrastructure and onany one market.
Housebuilding can then develop homes on the same site, such as our Complementary financial profiles development at the new Gloucestershire County Cricket Construction generates cash from clients ground in Bristol.
regular payments, while housebuilding requires cash to buy land and pay for development, Construction and housebuilding are also increasingly until the homes can be sold.
Together, the working together, enabling us to build homes on businesses minimise our need for external debt.
attractive but complex sites, as well as mixed-use projects with significant commercial elements.
Reduced impact of economic cycles Housebuilding also benefits from construction services Housebuilding is early cycle, adapting quickly such as the piling and remediation that prepare sites to economic changes, while long contracts fordevelopment.
andlead times make construction late cycle.
When one of our businesses turns down, the other remains strong, reducing the impact on the Group.
10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 s p i h s n d n g n i o a s i t e n a i d l a e l h r a c u y t d y i l i Business review n v p i u p d u m n I S m o c Q Q s k n u u s o a a i i l l r i i t t t a g y y n c i b b o g l u u Value chain Quality build Quality build Housebuilding Construction Our homes are renowned We are recognised for our Prime locations Managing risk fortheir expert build and high standards of project Our success in housebuilding We have well-developed highspecification, and delivery and have won is based on our ability to systems of risk management, forencouraging a more prestigious awards for our identify and acquire the best which help us to choose the sustainable way of living.
Delivering the best for land.
We have built a sizeable right projects and to deliver Weuse up-to-date building our clients enhances our landbankin prime locations them effectively.
Our hybrid methods and materials, and reputation and helps us to with the potential to become business model also allows the latest advances in energy winnew work.
prestigious and sustainable us to be selective about the efficiency and lifestyle developments, with good work we take on.
technology, aiming to reduce Customer focus local amenities and transport both the running costs for our We aim to become our links.
We identify the housing Supply chain and homeowners and each clients valued partner.
This needs of each area to create community relationships developments overall allows us to align our clients communities where people We build relationships with carbonfootprint.
needs on each project with aspire to live, in some of the our suppliers and work their long-term ambitions.
We countrys most desirable closely with them to improve Customer focus aim to become an extension locations.
service quality for our clients, We believe in treating our of their teams, giving us a increase our efficiency and customers the way we would deep understanding of their Individual design address key areas such as like to be treated.
We create bespoke designs, health, safety and the toimprove service across meaning that every one of environment.
We also develop thebusiness and ask every ourprojects starts with a strong relationships with the customer for feedback, so we blank sheet of paper.
We communities around our can see how we are doing complement the local style sites.
Being welcomed as a and where we canimprove.
and collaborate with some good neighbour helps us to ofthe industrys leading work effectively in the area.
architects, to create distinctive homes with uniqueattention to detail.
Housebuilding Construction Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 i i e a l l n d d m a i r M P s s u u c c o o f f r r e e m m o o t t s s u u C C Chief Executives strategic review Our group strategy Strategic priority: Progress in the year: Achieved record Group profits Disciplined growth Delivered higher margins in housebuilding and protected margins We aim to deliver disciplined profit growth inconstruction by focusing on the quality of opportunities Introduced an internal trading charter, to promote and monitor trading between our businesses and keep profit within the Group rather than the level of revenue, and by leveraging the synergies between our housebuilding and construction businesses Continued to control the increasing capital invested Cash management inhousebuilding developments We actively manage cash, keeping the Maintained construction cash balances at satisfactory levels, Groups net debt down by maximising cash despite the expected reduction in revenues flows from construction and minimising the capital tied up inhousebuilding Continued to deliver excellent levels of health & safety, ournumber Sustainability one priority We look to embed the highest standards of Exceeded our 15% carbon reduction target ahead of schedule sustainability in our businesses and, in Recycled more than 90% of construction materials waste Exceeded our Considerate Constructors Scheme target particular, to achieve industry leading Joined the FTSE4Good index levels of health & safety Delivered11,142 training days People Undertook our annual employee survey, with 91% of those We want to attract, retain and develop the responding stating that they cared about Galliford Trys future best people, and engage them so they Rolled out equality, diversity and anti-bribery training Exceeded our target for the percentage of employees attending offerexcellent service to our customers theChief Executives roadshow Achieved 18% growth in earnings per share Shareholder return Increased the total dividend for the year to 37 pence, up 23% The ultimate aim of our strategy is todeliver superior returns to our shareholders 12 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review Key performance indicators: Profit before tax 90 Comment 74.1 Profit on ordinary activities in m, excluding Housebuilding profits continue to grow, 63.1 60 exceptional items and tax more than offsetting the expected small 35.1 30 reduction in construction.
2011 2012 2013 Cash and capital management 60 Comment Group net cash or debt at the year end, The balance sheet remains strong 40 36.3 inm withconstruction cash of 145 million 20 22.5 and increased investment in 14.4 housebuilding, resulting in net Group 2011 2012 2013 debt of 14.4 million.
Accident frequency rate 0.3 Comment The total number of reportable accidents An encouraging health & safety 0.2 0.19 0.16 inthe year per 100,000 hours worked performance in the year, as described 0.1 0.10 further on pages 38 to 39.
2011 2012 2013 Staff churn 12 Comment 11.5 9.4 The number of employees who voluntarily Staff churn was considered acceptable 8.7 8 leave the Group during the year, as a given current market conditions.
4 percentage of the average number of 2011 2012 2013 employees in the year.
90 Earnings per share Comment 71.7 Earnings per share in pence, based onprofit The growth in housebuilding profits was 60 60.9 attributable to ordinary shareholders before the main contributor to the increase in 32.2 30 exceptional items, divided by the average earnings per share.
2011 2012 2013 number of sharesin issue during the year.
60 Dividend per share Comment The sum of the interim dividend and The increase reflects increased profits 40 37.0 30.0 theproposed final dividend, in pence and our progressive and sustainable 20 16.0 pershare.
2011 2012 2013 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13
