chieF executives rePOrt KariM Bitar LAYING THE FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Last year, I set out our new vision, invested in key research projects targeting Key Markets and segments strategy and organisation.
In 2013, and were affected by high feed Over half the worlds porcine market we made substantial progress costs in our genetic nucleus farms.
To build a business implementing the strategy and to address it effectively, we have laying the foundations for growth.
strategy invested in high-health production Aligning the organisation by species, The strategy we defined in 2012 capacity and strengthening giving more focus to research is designed to deliver our vision customer relationships.
In 2013, and development and Asia, and of Pioneering animal genetic we opened a new porcine nucleus strengthening our core capabilities improvement to help nourish the farm, Chun Hua, stocked with the have been very well received by world.
Our focus in 2013 has been latest North American genetics, both customers and employees.
to reduce the genetic lag of our Iam encouraged by the energy and Chinese product offering.
The opportunity for increasing Genetic control recruited a general manager for Genus is large and we are now better andProduct Differentiation our porcine business in China and placed to capture a growing share.
In 2013, we became the first significantly grew the teams size company to implement singleand capability across all disciplines.
We made these changes in a step genomic evaluation across challenging year for the global a full range of animal traits in our We also announced two joint agriculture industry, with record porcine business.
The early results ventures with customers, to provide feed costs holding back customer are very encouraging, with the multiplication capacity and to serve demand.
Despite this, Genus was able much higher accuracy in breeding these growing integrated pork to fund its investment plans while programmes more than doubling producers.
The first, Besun, is now surpassing last years record results.
the rate of genetic improvement operational and delivering very in key traits such as litter size.
The second, with Group Performance Shennong, is on track to establish Revenue was 1% higher than in 2012, In dairy product development, operations in a new farm in 2014.
Porcine volumes grew by we have established a very continue to have active discussions 6%, with strong increases in Asia and large animal database, enabling with other customers and partners.
Bovine volumes us to produce proprietary and rose 5%, driven by semen produced economically focused indices Genus also made good progress in India at lower price points.
Sales of of bull merit, specific to our in a wide range of other growth our globally produced semen grew customers needs.
In North markets in 2013, including the 1%, held back by poor conditions America, we launched Real World Philippines, Russia and Mexico, while TM in Latin America in the first half.
Data, a genetic index focused in the important North American on economic traits such as milk market our performance was solid Adjusted operating profit including production, fertility and lifetime in both porcine and bovine.
joint ventures increased by 1% to feed efficiency.
Higher porcine volumes female programme to gain greater In dairy, we are focusing on ten key drove double-digit profit growth genetic control and increased the markets and targeting the rapidly in Asia.
Genus PIC grew 4%, with proportion of genomic young sires growing large commercial and positive contributions from all in our dairy product portfolio.
This segment regions and particular strength in requires profit-focused indices Latin America, where we continue Our research programmes focus on and high-touch technical services.
to transition customers to our areas that can produce step changes We are steadily introducing this royalty model.
In Genus ABS, in product differentiation, including model in the US, with plans to trading was challenging and profit genomic evaluations, disease expand it in other key markets.
Drought affected resistance and gender skew.
Our key markets including Brazil and discovery without walls approach tailoring the Business Model North America, leading to subdued has continued to bring the best Our focus here is to ensure our demand.
Research and development genetics into Genus from wherever products meet the needs of our costs increased by 12%, as we we find them.
target markets and to implement best 12|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Our strategic initiatives better position Genus to capture the significant growth potential in the animal genetics market.
Each brings a wealth of experience and talent and I am delighted with the way that they have integrated with the team.
In July 2013, Ricardo Campos, the Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS, decided for personal reasons to step down from GELT and refocus on the important Latin America ABS business.
His passion and energy will continue to be valuable to Genus.
Saskia Korink Romani has assumed the role of acting Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS, to provide leadership to our bovine business.
Over the course of the year, we introduced new Company-wide performance, development and talent processes.
We also added strength and depth by recruiting many talented individuals.
I would like to thank all employees for practices to maximise value capture.
In addition, we created their commitment to our new For example, to provide differentiated a marketing organisation to improve strategic direction and for delivering high-merit genetics in the large product branding and pricing.
Indian dairy market, we imported Lastly, we introduced a consistent embryos from North America and performance management process Outlook now have four young bulls and a across geographies and functions, to Good harvests are predicted in the pipeline of further pregnancies.
ensure we embed our values and to northern hemisphere which should strengthen our performance culture.
result in lower input costs and an In porcine in Europe, we have improvement in profitability in the moved away from direct sales of Our People dairy, beef and porcine industries.
parent gilts and rebuilt our team to In March 2013, John Worby We expect this to lead to a gradual create the skills and structure for retired from Genus.
I would like improvement in market conditions an indirect, royalty-based business, to pay tribute to his outstanding for our customers and demand for similar to our successful Americas contribution and to thank him for our products.
We therefore expect porcine business.
We are making helping my induction to the Company the second half of this fiscal year clear progress and this transition and for assisting Stephen Wilson, our to be stronger than the first.
will gather momentum over time.
new Group Finance Director, with his seamless transition into the role.
John Our strategic initiatives better strengthening core competencies was a source of great knowledge position Genus to capture the We have implemented globally and wisdom and we wish him well.
significant growth potential in consistent organisations the animal genetics market.
I am and practices in key account The Genus Executive Leadership confident that 2014 will be a year management, technical services Team GELT welcomed three of accelerating progress, both and supply chain.
This has enabled new members during the year.
us to spread best practice to addition to Stephen, Saskia Korink customers around the world.
We Romani joined us as Chief Marketing Karim Bitar have strengthened these teams with Officer and Tom Kilroy is our new chief executive targeted hiring and international Group General Counsel & Company 2 September 2013 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|13 Our vaLues Results DRiVen Helping Customers to Benefit from Our Genetic Improvements Genus PICs Genetic Services team works with more than 150 customers around theworld.
It ensures customers understand the value that genetic improvement brings, helps them to optimise their use of our genetics, and encourages them to multiply our genetics quickly, so they can rapidly realise the benefits.
Finally, the team manages on-farm implementation of our genetic programme in our customers herds.
Our commitment to delivering results for customers is evident in Genetic Servicess approach to hiring and training its people.
In the last two years alone, the team has added five highly talented PhD geneticists from Asia, Europe, North America and Latin America.
This focus on quality helps Genetic Services achieve notable results, with the rate of genetic improvement in North American boar studs doubling in 2013, compared with the three previous years.
14|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 150 Genetic Services customersworldwide Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|15
