CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A GOOD YEAR FOR GKN NIGEL STEIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2013 was a good year for GKN.
We saw significant growth in sales and even faster growth in profits as a result of actions we took to deliver our strategy.
Group sales rose by 10% to 7,594 million and including in the US which is our largest market, All figures in this profit before tax reached 578 million, 17% above cut back their expenditure.
statement are presented on a management basis.
This progress was helped significantly See page 26 for details.
The strong contribution of GKN Aerospace Engine by the first full years contribution from GKN Systems helped GKN Aerospace overall to reach Aerospace Engine Systems, formerly Volvo Aero, record trading profit of 266 million.
The core which has been very successfully integrated into aerospace business saw progress, but at a modest the Group.
We are delighted with the talent, level.
Strong commercial sales were offset by a capability and culture of the workforce who joined decline in military, and sales were also reduced GKN with the acquisition.
due to Airbus taking back in-house a UK supply Our progress in 2013 was also down to the skill, chain contract.
dedication and commitment of the whole GKN team In automotive markets, 2013 saw overall global across all our businesses who, day-in day-out, output rising 4%, due to strong demand in China worked hard to deliver our advanced engineering and North America, but with Europe broadly flat.
products and systems to customers around After a difficult start to the year, with a sharp first the world.
I thank them for their efforts and their quarter decline, European production progressively contribution to our success.
recovered in the second half.
Markets and divisional performance Against that backdrop, GKN Driveline and GKN In aerospace, commercial markets remained strong, Powder Metallurgy saw good organic sales growth with record levels of aircraft orders and deliveries at of 7% and 6% respectively, comfortably above both Airbus and Boeing.
In contrast, military output the increase in global automotive production.
declined as governments around the world, 12 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Combined, our Automotive trading profit at a recent order from Boeing for a new advanced 340 million was 18 million ahead of 2012, technology wingtip for the new Boeing 737 MAX.
but this was after charging 21 million of Our success Global footprint restructuring costs in these businesses, so their is based on a 2013 saw some good steps in our global underlying trading improvement was even better.
We significantly This programme to reduce fixed costs, largely in strategy...
It has increased the scope of the GKN Driveline joint Europe and Japan, positions them well for 2014. five key elements venture in China, adding the whole suite of GKN Land Systems had a difficult time.
Its markets AWD products and systems to the already highly were challenging and sales also softened from the successful CVJ catalogue.
In Mexico, GKN Driveline cessation, as planned, of two UK legacy chassis increased its capacity in sideshaft production with programmes.
Sales fell by 4% to 899 million and the expansion of a key manufacturing facility.
although the team responded quickly to reduce GKN Powder Metallurgy and GKN Land Systems also costs, trading profit declined to 75 million and made further investments into the Chinese market the margin to 8.3%.
Given the lower sales, it was a with a new plant and a new venture respectively.
respectable performance, but our main focus now GKN Drivelines experience in China, gained is getting back to growth.
through Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems The Group overall ended the year with trading profit Co. Ltd which celebrated its 25 year anniversary of 661 million, 20% above 2012, maintaining the in 2013, significantly helped these projects.
strong growth record of the last few years.
The 2013 GKN Aerospace opened a new advanced A concept lightweight profit performance was also matched by good cash bracket to be used engineering centre for the existing team generation.
Group operating cashflow increased with modern carbon in Bangalore, India, as well as a new plant fibre structures in an to 470 million 2012: 207 million and net debt aircraft wing.
in Tulsa, US, to support Honeywell.
On a slightly declined to 732 million, another pleasing result.
disappointing note, our plans for a joint venture with COMAC in China, for the C919 aircraft, did not Delivering our strategy come to fruition due to commercial differences.
Our success is based on a straightforward strategy However we continue to seek ways of working with which is set out in detail later in this report page 15.
It has five key elements: leading in our chosen markets: leveraging our strong global presence: differentiating ourselves through technology: and driving operational excellence.
Together these help to deliver the fifth, which is growth above our markets.
During 2013 we made good progress against this strategy, with some highlights as follows: Market leadership We have continued to build our leadership positions across all our businesses.
In GKN Driveline, where we are global leaders in constant velocity joints CVJ and now in all-wheel drive AWD components and systems, we won major new business from BMW and the Volkswagen Group as well as reinforcing our position in the important North American market.
In GKN Aerospace the creation of GKN Aerospace Engine Systems from the Volvo Aero acquisition has positioned us as the number two supplier in the engine components market, whilst we also Additive Manufacture is in development at GKN Aerospaces facility in Filton, UK.
State-of-the-art continue to build the strong position of our equipment is being used to build highly complex engineered parts by fusing successive layers of aerostructures business.
We were pleased to win metal powder with an electron beam.
com 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Technology development GKN Land Systems was down against its market, Achieving our target margins requires us to have largely due to the discontinuation of two the best technology, offering something special to programmes in its legacy chassis business.
Examples include: AWD disconnect Without this and some other one-off effects, technology, which is approaching vehicle launch sales would have been broadly flat.
So there with two global customers: Design for Powder is still work to do in this division.
Metallurgy which is winning higher margin A balanced financial approach business: and in Aerospace where, as well as To achieve long term success, we believe it leading in aerostructures and engine systems, essential to adopt a balanced financial approach our transparency business has expertise in coatings between sales growth, margin and return on and the manufacture of high strength products invested capital ROIC.
In 2013 we saw progress that put it at the front of this field.
Sales growth overall reached During the year, we increased our investment 10%: margin improved to 8.7%, making progress in technology by a gross amount of 30 million, within our 8-10% range: and ROIC, after a stepincluding additional resources devoted to down due to the acquisition of Volvo Aero, made advanced projects which are overseen by our an underlying improvement towards our 20% goal.
One such We will continue to drive the Group forward, project is additive manufacture or 3D printing as keeping a balance between these three factors to it is also known which offers opportunities in the optimise cash flow and generate shareholder value.
manufacture of highly engineered metallic parts.
Whilst this remains very much a future technology, Doing business the right way we are making good progress in establishing our In GKN we are proud of our reputation for strong expertise in this arena.
governance and doing the right thing.
During 2013, we further strengthened some of our internal Operational excellence process and policies, including our Group risk Operational excellence founded on Lean assessment and Internal Control certification, manufacturing is a focus at GKN and we drive hard to ensure this reputation remains fully deserved.
to continuously improve in everything we do.
Looking back over 2013, I am pleased that we We are also proud of the contribution our plants made good progress in our safety statistics, and employees make to their local communities.
although we remain focused on driving further When I visit GKN plants around the world, I am improvement through our thinkSAFE!
always extremely impressed with what GKN people More information on health and safety across the do voluntarily to benefit their communities and Group is given on pages 54-55. others less fortunate than themselves.
Quality has also been a strong area of focus in Looking ahead the year and it was pleasing to receive recognition I remain confident that GKN has the right strategy of our improved performance.
By way of example, to deliver continuing long term success.
th GKN Driveline received three awards at Fords 15 We have further opportunities for growth and, to annual World Excellence Awards and GKN Sinter take advantage of these in 2014, we will increase Metals focus on quality was recognised with three our capital expenditure slightly above our normal Supplier Quality Excellence awards from General run rate.
Overall, 2014 is expected to be another year Although often taken as a given in our markets, of continued progress.
Whilst adverse currency excellence in quality and on time delivery is movements could provide a significant translational something we work hard at every day and these will headwind, this should be outweighed by the remain a priority for further improvement in 2014. benefits of the Groups diverse exposure to global markets, strong customer positions and healthy Above market growth order books.
Overall the Group increased sales by 10%, or 3% on an organic basis.
Within that, our Automotive divisions showed good organic growth, comfortably exceeding the growth in global light vehicle production.
In GKN Aerospace, taking a balance between commercial and military, we would judge our growth to be in-line with the market, although sales were also reduced by the loss of the UK supply contract mentioned earlier.
14 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
