Strategic report CEOs review Our CEOs Review of the year Company performance in 2013 was defined by remarkable output from our R&D organisation Over the past six years we have been making Overall, GSK accounted for 19% of FDA new We led the sector for new fundamental changes at GSK to deliver innovation drug approvals during 2013 and, since 2009, medicine approvals and and access to our products for patients and we have achieved more FDA approvals of customers, and improved sustainable financial new molecular entities NMEs than any returned 5.2 billion to performance for our shareholders.
In 2013, we saw further strong delivery The conversion of our advanced pipeline to against these priorities.
approved products represents the next step in our strategy to deliver sustainable organic During the year, we led the sector for new growth and value to shareholders.
medicine approvals and returned 5.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and share In particular, I want to note the growing buy-backs helping generate the best annual strength of our respiratory portfolio.
With total shareholder return TSR performance Advair, Flovent, Ventolin, Breo, Anoro and since the formation of GSK.
seven other respiratory products in late-stage development, we are confident in our ability We grew sales and earnings in line with to maintain a leadership position in this area guidance with turnover up 1% to 26.5 billion well into the next decade.
and core earnings per share up 4% to 112.2p both CER.
We achieved this trading result In addition to the highlighted approvals, our despite some unexpected challenges, future pipeline opportunity remains extensive.
including significantly reduced sales in We have around 40 NMEs in phase II III our Chinese business.
In 2014 and 2015 we expect phase III read-outs for six NMEs and During 2013, we also continued to take action are planning ten NME phase III starts in key to reform our business model to better meet the areas such as respiratory, oncology and expectations of society.
In particular, we took immuno-inflammation.
industry-leading positions and actions to improve global public health, increase transparency of Importantly, we also continue to improve our our clinical data, and modernise our commercial financial efficiency in R&D and our estimated practices and interactions with customers.
internal rate of return of our R&D investments is now 13%.
This is good progress and we continue to target 14% on a longer-term basis.
Exceptional R&D delivery 2013 was the most productive period of R&D Improved R&D productivity is also output in the companys history.
underpinning our strategy to create more flexibility around the pricing of our new Of the six major new medicine files we profiled medicines to meet the needs of payers at the start of 2013, five were approved: and governments.
Breo and Anoro for respiratory disease, Tafinlar and Mekinist for melanoma skin cancer and Tivicay for HIV.
We are expecting regulatory decisions for albiglutide, the remaining asset in this group, in the first half of 2014.
In addition, we launched our new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine in the USA.
4 GSK Annual Report 2013 This is creating greater flexibility to invest I was delighted we achieved a significant Broadly based sales growth in our growth markets and new product milestone for our malaria vaccine candidate In terms of sales, we saw a broadly-based launches and together with continued which demonstrated that it could potentially performance in 2013.
There was an improved improvement in our financial efficiency halve the number of malaria cases in young performance in our US business, where sales strengthens our ability to deliver earnings children.
This vaccine has the potential to save were up 1% or 4% excluding the divestment per share growth ahead of sales.
the lives of hundreds of thousands of children of Vesicare.
We also saw stabilisation of in Africa and we now plan to file for approval our European business, which reported flat The business remains highly cash generative during 2014.
We are committed to making it sales, with the benefits of our restructuring with 4.7 billion in free cash flow in 2013. available at a not-for-profit price.
programme helping to offset economic and In addition, we realised 2.5 billion from pricing pressures in the region.
There is no higher priority for me than the divestments leaving net debt of 12.6 billion at the end of the year.
We continue to focus values-based conduct of our employees.
We remain committed to investing for In the past few years, we have focused on on using cash to protect our credit profile continuing growth in our important Emerging and fund organic investment and restructuring bringing to life our values of transparency, Markets business.
Sales in the region were up respect for people, integrity and patient programmes as well as our ongoing 5% for the year and 11% in the fourth quarter, commitment to a growing dividend, further focus, and being thoughtful about what excluding China.
they really mean at a human level.
share buy-backs and bolt-on acquisitions During the year, we also took steps to increase whichever offers the most attractive returns.
It is because of my strong belief in our our equity holdings in our fast-growing Indian companys values that the allegations made in pharmaceuticals and consumer subsidiaries Changing our business model China about the behaviour of some individuals and announced plans to build new We made considerable further progress during were so disappointing.
The investigation manufacturing capacity in the country.
2013 on our agenda to operate responsibly into this matter by the authorities in China Consumer Healthcare sales grew 4% excluding and meet the changing expectations of society.
continues and we are co-operating fully.
As divested brands, with growth across all regions.
a company, we are committed to learning the We made new commitments to increase lessons and taking all appropriate action in transparency of our clinical research.
Early Optimising and re-shaping relation to the outcome of their investigation.
in the year we announced our support for our portfolio the AllTrials campaign and became the We continue to take steps to optimise and Outlook first pharmaceutical company to commit to focus our portfolio.
publishing the detailed clinical study reports for Looking to 2014, we see continued momentum all of our medicines.
In May, we were also the for the business and are targeting core earnings During 2013 we divested our anti-coagulant first in our industry to launch an online system per share EPS growth of 4-8% CER on products for more than 700 million.
We also enabling researchers to request access to the turnover growth of around 2% CER on an created a new Established Products Portfolio anonymised patient-level data from our clinical ex-divestment basis 2013 EPS base of made up of our older, largely non-promoted trials.
I am pleased that other companies are 108.4p, turnover 25.6 billion.
The range in our brands, with the aim of finding more opportunities now also adopting this approach.
guidance takes into account the roll-out of new to reduce complexity, enhance profitability and products along with potential competition from optimise the value of this group of products.
We also announced plans to evolve the way generics to our older products such as Lovaza.
we sell and market products to healthcare We also completed a significant divestment in professionals to further align our activities In closing, I would like to thank all our our Consumer Healthcare business with the with the interests of patients and remove the employees, partners and suppliers for their sale of drinks brands Lucozade and Ribena perception of conflict of interest.
Specifically, continued commitment and support.
Overall, to Suntory of Japan for 1.35 billion.
While we plan to stop direct payments to healthcare I am confident that our core focus on innovative these are iconic brands, particularly in the professionals for speaking engagements and product development and our programme of UK, we believe their growth potential is better for attendance at medical conferences, and investment, coupled with the changes we are realised by a company with existing category extend the principle of our US Patient First making to our business model, are positioning presence and a substantial drinks distribution programme globally, to decouple sales team the company competitively for the long term.
infrastructure in the emerging markets.
Financial efficiencies and We continue to expand access to our medicines cash generation to people living in the developing world.
Operationally we continue to restructure and During 2013 we signed a ground-breaking simplify our business to reduce our long-term five-year partnership with Save the Children cost base.
In 2013 we delivered incremental to combine the resources and capabilities of year-on-year savings of around 400 million our two organisations to help save the lives from both ongoing and structural initiatives.
of one million children living in the poorest Sir Andrew Witty countries in Africa.
Chief Executive Officer GSK Annual Report 2013 5
