Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive Officer 2013 was a landmark year for Glencore with the completion of our acquisition ofXstrata.
Through the hard work and efforts of our employees we have achieved a rapid and seamless integration of the two businesses, and now expect the total annual acquisition-related synergies to bein excess of$2.4 billion.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 8 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2013 was a landmark year for Glencore with the completion Marketing delivered a very creditable overall performance of our acquisition of Xstrata.
As we outlined at our with an 11% increase in Adjusted EBIT, despite a September investor day, robust structures and procedures relatively lacklustre commodity and economic backdrop.
were established that allowed our operations to be quickly Our industrial asset performance inevitably reflected and smoothly combined.
such weaker commodity price environment, particularly in coal, resulting in an overall relatively modest year As part of this process, we rationalised divisional head on year decline, bolstered by volume growth, improved office structures and sought to eliminate excessive cost management and the delivery of  and duplication across the entire operational related synergies.
base, which combined with marketing benefits identified, has resulted in expected total annual synergies relating On 13 November 2013, our shares began trading on the tothe acquisition now in excess of $2.4 billion.
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, as a secondary and inward foreign listing as defined by the South African Reserve A bottom up review of all operating assets and projects Bank.
Africa is an exciting and growing market for also formed an important component of the integration Glencore.
South Africa has a strong and knowledgeable process, resulting in the suspension of more than institutional investor base with a long history of 40 projects and the identification of other assets for investing in resource companies and, in this regard, we potential sale.
We remain committed to ensuring that key look forward to developing long-term and rewarding projects are delivered in the best possible manner, while shareholder relationships.
maintaining a strong focus on cost control.
Our efforts to improve the efficiency and productivity of the enlarged We continue to see healthy demand growth in all industrial asset base continue to present opportunities to our key commodities, underpinned by the long-term accrue further savings.
Separately, we are also exploring trend of urbanisation in emerging markets and parts the possibility of creating further value via closer of the developed world returning to trend growth.
cooperation and interaction in specific areas where there is Under pressure from shareholders, resources companies significant operational overlap with third party producers.
appear to be fundamentally reassessing their allocation of capital dedicated to new supply.
This does suggest a Unique amongst our peers, we have made our capital more constructive price environment for commodities allocation process and thresholds explicit.
We are focused inthe future.
on delivering the right returns on our capital in order to grow our long-term free cash flows.
Depleting assets will only be replaced if it makes economic sense.
Excess capital, which cannot be gainfully redeployed, will be returned to shareholders.
Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive Officer Incremental capital allocation will focus on lower-risk expansion brownfield projects and bolt-on acquisitions that minimise risk and allow for strong returns and rapid cash payback.
The combination of the substantial completion of the current growth pipeline and our operational cost reduction programme is expected to see Glencore move materially down the cost curve in all our key commodities.
Glencore remains the only genuinely diversified natural resources company in respect of business activity, commodity and geography.
Our financial performance in 2013 reflects this, with a consistent pro forma adjusted EBITDA and operational cashflow performance compared to 2012.
In light of the near term expected production growth, associated deceleration of capital expenditure and recognition of the level of acquisition-related synergies achieved, we are delighted to announce a further increase in our dividend per share.
