BUSINESS REVIEW Chief executives review ANOTHER STRONG YEAR The robustness of our business and our proven strategy ensured we delivered further strong growth and record results for our shareholders.
quality across our three main markets of We made substantial financial progress in Performance summary eating out, drinking out and staying out.
the year helping to further strengthen our It has been another strong year for Greene This helped us deliver like-for-like LFL balance sheet and financial resilience.
After King, delivering record results for our sales growth of 2.3% in Retail, split 4.3% the year end, we refinanced our revolving shareholders.
This was led by a successful growth in the first half and 0.6% growth in credit facility, using an additional 60m to trading performance from our largest and the second half reflecting the more difficult buy back our AB1 bonds ahead of their step-up, fastest growing business, Greene King Retail, trading conditions experienced after the and we completed the latest triennial pension achieving 12.1% operating profit growth: New Year.
This underlying growth was review, leading to a lower annual cash supported by another positive contribution funding requirement.
Retail now generates over 72% of group revenue.
This was the first year of our three year Operating profit before exceptional items partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support was up 5.1% at 248.2m.
Further productivity improvements in labour, to raise 1m.
It has been successful so far, tight cost control and acquisition synergy raising 300,000 in the first year, including The operating margin was up ten basis benefits drove strong margin growth in raising 100,000 for the Worlds Biggest points to 20.8%, despite the business Retail, which more than offset the negative Coffee Morning.
impact of our changing business mix on the group operating margin.
Operating profit Profit before tax and exceptional items Overview before exceptional items grew 5.1%.
Our strong performance and record results were delivered in another year of tough Our strong performance delivered adjusted Adjusted earnings per share grew 7.5% economic conditions, a generally difficult earnings per share growth of 7.5% and to57.0p.
regulatory environment, highly competitive dividend growth of 7.3% for our shareholders markets and constantly shifting consumer in the third year of our retail expansion plan.
The board has recommended a final trends.
We also had to deal with a year of The impact of estate changes, growing the size dividend of 19.45p per share, up 7.5%.
unprecedented weather, particularly in some and quality of our retail estate and reducing of our most important trading months.
Both the size, while improving the quality, of our ROCE improved a further 40 basis points June and July were abnormally wet, while tenanted and leased estate, has driven further to 8.9%.
October and March were abnormally cold.
In the year, While we hope for better weather in the ROCE rose 40 basis points bps to 8.9%, Even though we experienced a long, cold new financial year, we do not expect ahead of our cost of capital.
and wet winter, the robustness of our business toseematerial change in the economic and our proven strategy ensured we delivered orpolitical environment.
further strong growth in revenue, up 4.8%, with Retail leading the way with growth of 7.4%.
We continue to focus on providing our customers with the best value, service and 10 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk Economic conditions through the year Improving customer information and insight Current trading and outlook remained subdued.
After five years, we have is therefore crucial to delivering sustainable In the first eight weeks of the new financial still not returned to the real GDP levels of sector-leading growth and margins.
As a year, we have delivered another strong trading 2007, before the economic slump began.
result, we made further investment in our performance, against tough comparatives Numerous key measures, such as house prices, digital platform and customer insight, with last year, which benefited from the consumer confidence and household earnings covering areas such as targeted voucher Jubilee and Euro 2012.
LFL sales in Retail are sluggish, although there is a degree of offers, maintaining a regular dialogue were up 3.3%, helped by improved weather resilience to the employment market.
withcustomers through social media on both Bank Holiday weekends.
Both food andfacilitating online table reservations.
LFL sales and room LFL sales have been From a regulatory perspective, there are particularly strong.
Average EBITDA in Allegra Eating Out Report 2013. three key issues facing the industry: PubPartners was up 5.1% and core OBV CGA Brand Index.
inBrewing & Brands was up 1.5%, taking Eurostat, PWC, Allegra, Company.
The scrapping of the beer further market share and continuing the dutyescalator was a welcome move and momentum from the second half of the we are hopeful of additional duty reform Strategic progress previous financial year.
We are three years into our five-year strategy Although we have made a strong start, the to improve growth and returns to shareholders 2.
We believe the proposal overall outlook remains subdued and we are through increasing our exposure to more for a statutory code to govern the not assuming a pick-up in the economy this attractive categories in our markets.
We made relationship between pub companies and year.
However, our strategy is designed, and further progress in all areas as we continue to licensees is unnecessary.
We have fully proven to be appropriate, for these conditions invest in a successful future for GreeneKing: participated in the consultation process as we shift our business towards higher and have argued for more time to be growth areas of our markets and constantly 1.
Expanding Retail to 1,100 sites and givento the current, legally-binding, improve our customer offer.
We are confident improving estate quality.
We acquired self-regulatory code to prove its worth, of maintaining this momentum and delivering ortransferred in 38 sites to take the estate particularly for brewery-tied tenanted further value to our shareholders.
to 987 pubs, restaurants and hotels.
Ofthe38sites, 15 were new Hungry Horse openings and 11 were Meet & Eat transfers.
We remain We opened our 200th Hungry Horse just supporters of a minimum unit price Rooney Anand after the year end.
Since we began our MUP for alcohol.
We believe it would Chief executive officer strategy, the acquired sites have delivered help to reduce the costs to society of 26 June 2013 an average siteEBITDA ROI of 15.0%.
irresponsible retailing and consumption of alcohol, although we do not expect 2.
Reducing the Pub Partners estate, legislation on MUP in this parliament.
improving estate quality and increasing our offer influence.
In Pub Partners, We primarily operate in three UK markets: wedisposed of 103 non-core sites and informal eating out, worth 54bn, drinking transferred 14 sites to Retail.
Average out, worth 22bn and staying out, worth EBITDA per pub grew 4.2% and there 27bn.
These are large, profitable and were 38 franchise and franchise-style fragmented markets with long-term growth sites at the year end.
There are 331 sites, potential and opportunities for us to grow or26% of the Pub Partners estate, under market share.
Our focus on delivering industry central offer influence.
leading value, service and quality, providing affordable treats to customers, combined 3.
Maintain industry-leading brand with accelerating offer innovation, gives us investment to strengthen leadership a significant competitive advantage.
We again invested in our we optimise the opportunities within each coreale brands to drive core own brewed market, particularly in accessible growth volume OBV growth and UK ale market segments and occasions such as breakfasts outperformance in Brewing & Brands.
and takeaways in eating out, the trend towards Werelaunched TVadvertising for Greene premiumisation in drinking out and pub King IPA, OldSpeckled Hen and Belhaven accommodation within staying out.
Best andour investment took a 45% share ofall ale media spend in the year.
We can also deliver competitive advantage through improved understanding of Nielsen MAT to 31 March 2013. consumers and their evolving preferences.
We anticipate trends such as health, convenience and customisation to grow inimportance over the next few years and we are positioning our offers accordingly.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
