24 Group Chief Executive Officers Review Matt Davies Group Chief Executive Introduction potentially remain around this level as the business approaches nearer 2x dividend earnings cover over the medium term.
This would reflect Halfords Retail sales performance in FY13 reflected a demanding a more-sustainable level for the business, the requirement to invest as trading environment.
Sales were affected by unseasonal weather in set out later and the maintenance of a robust balance sheet.
the first and last quarters and by a summer of sport in between which particularly benefitted cycle sales.
In the year under review, Halfords Retail Retail delivered three quarters of positive like-for-like LfL sales growth, following a number of consecutive negative LfLs in preceding Sales for the year were 745.5m, down 0.9% on the prior year and quarters, supported by online Retail revenue growth of 15.9%.
The sales mix and continued focus on cash returns resulted, as expected, in a broadly-flat Retail gross margin.
Our Autocentres performance was satisfactory against a backdrop of a Cycling declining market and particular challenges in the fleet sector.
After a disappointing start to the year, it was a particularly strong summer Throughout the period the business has taken advantage of the for Cycling sales.
The enthusiasm surrounding British successes in opportunities presented and we have focused on improving our offer the Tour fide France, Olympics and Paralympics helped fuel a stronger through service.
Particular progress was made in the Car Maintenance demand for cycles, cycle products and cycle accessories and we category where we have invested in training and extra colleagues to capitalised on this with our agile trading stance.
The strong demand for carry out our wefit fitting service: this has driven extra sales.
premium cycles continued throughout the year, particularly our exclusive Boardman and Pendleton ranges.
We were pleased to add to our ranges FY13 Review with the introduction of Pinarello cycles, the brand ridden by Team Sky and used by Sir Bradley Wiggins to win the Tour fide France.
Summary of Group Results Sales were 871.3m, up 1.0% and up 0.3% on an LfL basis.
Group During the second half overall cycle sales were affected by a poorer gross margin was flat at 54.8%.
Total underlying operating costs rose Christmas for kids and mainstream bikes, which continued into the final by 6.2% due to the continuing inflationary environment, our strategic quarter as the prolonged winter weather delayed the start of the family investments to support our Retail service offer and the continued cycling season.
Cycling LfL sales were down 0.6% for the year.
Online expansion of our Autocentres business.
Underlying Group earnings Cycling Parts, Accessory and Clothing PACs sales were up 26.5% in before interest, tax and non-recurring items were 78.1m, which the final quarter as we began to introduce new ranges ready for a fullcompares with 97.2m in FY12.
Profit before tax and non-recurring scale launch of our enhanced PACs proposition in the new financial year.
items was 72.0m and earnings per share before non-recurring items were 27.7p, down 21.9% and 17.8% respectively.
Car Maintenance LfL sales of Car Maintenance products and services grew by 5.1%, Group inventory and capital expenditure continued to be managed helped by the prolonged period of winter weather.
Demand for our tightly, with Retail stocks down 9.2% on the prior year.
Autocentres wefit service continues to build as we invest in this category and more inventory was 1.3m, flat on the prior year.
The cash flow performance customers look to us for expert help with basic Car Maintenance was robust with free cash flow of 71.8m generated against 70.4m in solutions.
We fitted 35.2% of the bulbs, wiper blades and batteries we the prior year.
Net debt at the year-end was down 28.6m to 110.6m, sold, up 890 basis points on last year.
We invested in training, payroll, with net debt:EBITDA remaining at a ratio of 1.1:1. colleague numbers and national marketing to fulfil the demand and make more customers aware of our unique offer.
The 3Bs parts and The Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.1 pence per share, labour market is estimated to be worth around 950m and we only a reduction of 35.0% on the prior year FY12: 14.0 pence.
If approved, have a c. 11% share.
In the year we also leveraged our market-leading this will be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders on the register at position with timely promotions like our deals on Castrol oil.
the close of business on 5 July 2013.
The proposed full-year dividend is 17.1 pence FY12: 22.0 pence.
The 35.0% reduction of the final dividend would have the effect of similarly rebasing future dividend payouts.
It is anticipated that the FY14 full-year dividend would be reset to around 14 pence per share and that the full-year dividend would 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 We now fit 35.2% of the bulbs, wiper blades and batteries 3Bs we sell, up 890 basis points on last year.
Encouraging engagement with qualified staff Car Enhancement Growth was driven by our investment in marketing, the development of our tyre proposition, our exclusive brakes4life offer and the In Car Enhancement LfL sales decreased by 4.2%.
This was a much contribution from new centres.
The significant increase in lower-margin slower rate of decline than in previous periods.
Sat Nav sales have been tyre sales resulted in a 221bps decline in gross margin, with margins in a significant drag on the business over the last few years but during the our non-tyre business benefitting from scale.
second half of the year sales were flat.
We also made market-share gains in both Sat Nav and Car Audio.
Audio sales grew by an encouraging We continue to acquire new retail customers whilst retaining a high 2.8% due to good execution and the authority of our range, established level of existing customers.
However, fleet-customer acquisition has through our close partnership with the worlds leading technology been less satisfactory with material short-term challenges in this sector.
We are closer to the significant medium-term opportunity around Twenty-three new centres were opened in the year bringing our total at Digital Radio and further share gains here mean we have now captured the end of the year to 283 centres.
We will continue to selectively and around three-quarters of this growing market.
appropriately invest in new centres to significantly grow our network over the years ahead, targeting a further 20 to 30 new openings in Travel Solutions FY14.
There was reduced demand for camping and touring products due to the generally poor weather both last summer and this spring.
Our Travel Halfords Business Review Solutions category saw an LfL sales decline of 6.8%.
One highlight was Introduction the sale of breathalysers during the summer and again this spring as they became a requirement for Continental travel and motorists visited The fall in Group profitability over recent years illustrates the need Halfords for our exclusive Alcosense range.
Child Car Seats remain a for sustainable and profitable revenue growth over the medium and product range facing intense pricing and competitive pressure and, long-term to offset ongoing cost inflation.
We must strengthen our during the year, we continued to manage this category for cash.
proposition and customer offer in an environment where shopping patterns are changing and competition is increasing.
As a result Online the Board asked me to carry out a review of the business with the management team and bring forward a plan to reposition Halfords to Online revenues grew by 15.9% and represented 10.3% of Retail sales meet the challenges now and that lie ahead.
which compares with 8.9% in the prior year.
We continue to focus on improving our online experience for customers and we invested My conclusion is that Halfords is a good business with a clear strategic in website capability: for instance the launch of a new search engine, framework in place.
However, there is some repositioning necessary to Fred Hopper, that will make it easier for online shoppers to search move Halfords from being good to being great: we must act now.
Our and navigate our site.
We also introduced our new 24-hour Reserve single most important objective is to drive profitable sales growth and & Collect service and rebalanced our promotions to focus more on to do this through leveraging our expertise.
product price rather than percentage discounting.
Following our review we have launched Getting Into Gear 2016, Autocentres a clear programme of operational plans designed to significantly Autocentres sales were 125.8m, up 13.5% overall and represented improve our Retail customer experience.
This programme will focus a 7.0% LfL uplift on the prior year.
The second-quarter LfL sales on supporting our colleagues to deliver consistent friendly expertise, growth of 12.4% was the strongest since we acquired the business in improve our store environment, strengthen the authority of our offer February 2010 and the business has now enjoyed nine consecutive and build our infrastructure and digital capabilities.
The investment quarters of LfL growth.
required is anticipated to reduce short-term Retail profitability but is designed to deliver sustainable revenue and profit growth together with sustainable shareholder value.
Source: management estimates 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 26 Group Chief Executive Officers Review continued Three-Pillared Strategy Halfords Autocentres Last year Halfords launched a new strategy that focused on three A central part of our strategy of Supporting Drivers of Every Car is our core pillars: newest business, Halfords Autocentres.
Friend of the Motorist Halfords is a trusted brand in the automotive sector, so the move into garage servicing was a natural extension of the Halfords business Best Cycle Shop in Town model.
We now offer customers end-to-end solutions, from car parts Starting Point for Great Getaways to the fitting of bulbs, blades and batteries in our Retail stores and full servicing, MOTs and repairs at our Autocentres.
We believe this is the right strategic framework and the new programme of activity we are initiating is designed to support and Our review concluded that our strategy for Autocentres is sound and drive these three pillars which we have redefined slightly to introduce a the Autocentres business provides a significant growth opportunity clearer purpose and more passion.
However, we also concluded that the short-term profit expectations discussed at the time of acquisition were overly optimistic.
Our mission is to Help and Inspire Customers with their Life on the These short-term expectations didnt fully consider the implications of Move.
The existing pillars have evolved to become: a rapid expansion of the chain through new-centre openings, nor the impact of the auto-aftercare market environment which has been more Supporting Drivers of Every Car difficult than expected in the period since acquisition.
The economic Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age down turn has particularly hit motorists through escalating fuel and Equipping Families for their Leisure Time insurance costs.
In response motorists have reduced mileage and cut back on other costs where possible including car servicing.
As a Our two critical pillars are Auto and Cycling with the third pillar giving result we estimate the overall market has contracted by around 5% in us the flexibility to extend our range, introduce innovative products and the last three years.
Ninety percent of our focus needs to be on Auto and Cycling as these markets are significant and, with good execution, we can grow our share as well as the overall market.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Despite this Halfords has grown its Autocentre retail LfL sales by 4.3% well and, as we expand, our buying leverage creates value.
However, in the same period, over 9% better than the market.
This was achieved the contribution from new centres is outweighed by the investments through better use of existing Autocentres capacity.
We have recruited needed for the opening programme.
It is predominantly these newthousands of new customers by rebranding the estate and nationally centre investments that are holding back overall short-term profitability advertising.
We also offer customers a wider range of products like together with investments in the infrastructure to support a business tyres and our innovative brakes4life offer.
growing at the pace of Autocentres.
The Auto-Aftercare market provides Halfords with an opportunity for Having reviewed the business, we believe that Autocentres is a great further growth.
It is estimated to be worth around 9bn and Halfords growth opportunity for us.
We have a clear strategy for the future only has a small share our 283 centres represent less than 2% of being executed by the Autocentres management team and we can the market.
build a business of significant scale.
Operationally we will increase what we sell to our existing customers by focusing services on the The market is also highly fragmented and capacity is declining.
There Big4: Service, MOT, Repair and Tyres.
We will support these sales are some 22,000 garage sites and 12% leave the market each year.
through innovations like Sunday openings, new product packages and The complexities of new cars and the investments required make it refreshing our website to make booking a service or selecting a tyre more difficult for small operators to compete.
By contrast Halfords has even easier.
increased Autocentre chain numbers by around 27% since acquisition and invested heavily to support growth.
Through proven marketing routes we will drive more footfall to our Autocentres.
We will grow our share of the fleet market by developing Halfords is well placed to take market share.
We are a recognised our presence with existing customers and attracting and developing strong brand in Auto-Aftercare which is a key advantage as trust new customers.
is one of the main factors affecting motorists choice of garages.
So our proposition of dealership quality work at more affordable prices, Our new-centre opening programme will continue with 2030 new supported by a high level of customer service is a compelling one.
We centres planned per annum requiring a capital investment of around can also leverage national advertising and cross-sell between Retail 6m per annum.
We also anticipate that the market will return to and Autocentre customers.
growth as maintenance and repairs return to more normalised levels.
Over the medium-term we expect to see profitability build as critical The short-term issue for the business is the drag created by our mass is reached in the business.
Our core centres are performing Source: management estimates using data from Halfords Autocentres, SMMT, DFT and Castrol Trend Tracker 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 28 Group Chief Executive Officers Review continued Service is at the heart of our proposition as we estimate two thirds of our products require some level of assistance.
Halfords Retail Our sales are supported by a core of colleagues who are knowledgeable experts.
On our day the service we provide is hard to Our review of Halfords Retail addresses the significant challenges we beat.
However, our review shows that service levels are inconsistent face and sets out a programme of activity to reposition the business: to and this and other aspects of the Halfords experience frustrate move us from good to great as we prepare Halfords for the future and customers: many are now choosing to shop elsewhere.
put it on a path to consistently drive profitable top-line growth.
One measure of this is the Halfords Net Promoter Score, which Halfords has a very strong place in UK retail.
We have an excellent assesses the propensity of customers to recommend our services to brand that shoppers in Britain have grown up with and theres no doubt others.
The Halfords score was, until very recently, close to that of a in a customers mind what Halfords stands for and what we sell.
We value retailer: this is a long way adrift from the score of a specialist, are the nations leading cycle retailer, selling over 1m cycles a year where we ought to be.
and we are the go-to destination for motorists.
So our products and services are relevant for todays customers and key parts of our offer, Meanwhile the competition is escalating in our core categories, such especially those which are service related, are unique to Halfords.
as from online Cycling specialists.
As a result our profitability is being eroded.
In the last 13 quarters, 10 have seen Retail LfL sales declines.
The categories in which Halfords operates provide good opportunities Our revenues have gone from c. 812m in FY10 to c. 746m in FY13.
For instance, the Cycle market is buoyant and the popularity of Cycling is growing.
The market for Cycles is worth around Halfords must generate profitable revenue growth over the medium and 700m and Halfords has a c. 2025% share.
The market for PACs long-term: the key action that will drive sales is better customer service.
is a similar size: we only have c. 15% share in this market.
Last year We have thousands of amazing people but we havent supported them the entire Cycling market grew by 8.5% and over the next five years to do the job they aspire to.
This was evident in the 12,000 comments is anticipated will grow by around 23%.
In the Cycle Repair market, we received in last years Colleague Engagement Survey which was worth c. 100m, we estimate having only a c. 8% share.
Our focus in packed with suggestions on how to support colleagues in their roles FY13 on Cycle Repair produced sales growth of 25.3% and we are and help them help customers.
implementing a strategy for further growth in this category in FY14.
Our conclusion is that we must focus on customer service and deliver Halfords also has good potential for growth in Retail Car Maintenance.
To do this we have to improve colleague The 3Bs parts and labour market is estimated to be worth around engagement, develop their friendly expertise consistently across our 950m and we only have a c. 11% market share.
Wefit is a unique estate and use it to drive sales.
Through our colleagues product offer and we have invested in colleagues, training, advertising and held knowledge and our range authority we can re-build our credentials as wefit weekends to raise awareness.
The 50.5% growth this year in the a specialist retailer.
We must also improve our stock availability, retail number of 3B fitting jobs and the associated growth of 10.9% in parts disciplines, our store environment and overall customer experience.
sales illustrate how much customers welcome this service and what an All these improvements must be made as we position ourselves for a area of ongoing opportunity it is.
Halfords is in a strong position to make the best of these market Our focus is to create a business with belief in the quality of its opportunities if we can present the right offer to customers.
We products and services and where friendly expertise is at its core.
have great expertise and heritage and a nationwide store network.
Meanwhile our global sourcing infrastructure can supply excellent To deliver this the Getting Into Gear 2016 programme has been products from the worlds leading manufacturers at least-cost to our launched and is specifically designed to drive profitable and sustainable customers for instance our exclusive range of Boardman cycles, top-line growth.
Whilst a lot of work is already underway the complete which combine industry-leading designs with prices that are around programme will take around three years to deliver.
15% lower than a cycle of comparable specification.
Source: management estimates Source: Mintel 2013 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 Our new programme makes our people a focus of our KPIs and our Getting Into Gear 2016 store-incentives programme will now be linked to service as well as Getting Into Gear 2016 has the following key elements for our Retail sales.
We are changing the way we recruit and develop, revising rotas business: and scheduling and amending contracted hours to make sure we always have colleagues available to serve customers.
Service Revolution introducing a step change in customer service across Halfords stores.
We are opening new Halfords Academies to provide the training 2.
The H Factor reasserting our proposition authority to Support that colleagues need: we are also launching 3-Gears, a qualification Drivers of Every Car, Inspire Cyclists of Every Age and Equip programme that trains and rewards colleagues for gaining expertise.
Families for their Leisure Time.
Stores Fit to Shop investing to raise the Halfords store estate to Gear 1 a standard that is acceptable and operable.
21st Century Infrastructure systems and infrastructure to Gear 1 applies to all colleagues and is completed over their first threesupport service and sales.
We use structured e-learning modules 5.
Click with the Digital Future creating a service-led digital that cover retail skills, product knowledge and customer service.
outcome is that all store colleagues will be qualified to serve customers.
Service Revolution Gear 2 Service is Halfords key area of focus.
Service is at the heart of our Gear 2 involves a nine-month training programme which leads to an proposition as we estimate around two-thirds of our Retail products expert level of product knowledge, with a specialism in either Auto & require some level of assistance.
Increasingly we are making a merit of Leisure or Cycling.
Tuition is both through e-learning and face-to-face this and service is becoming a product in its own right.
There are regular refresher courses for Gear 2 colleagues and a pay award for those who attain this level.
The level of service we aspire to is something that supermarkets will never be able to deliver.
It also gives us a competitive advantage Gear 3 over the online, pure-play retailers who have no stores or colleagues Gear 3 colleagues are our Gurus.
They are product experts who are on the ground to support their sales.
But we have to improve to deliver qualified to train others.
They keep their skills and knowledge current the promise.
and market leading - through workshops, attending product and trade shows and by linking with and visiting suppliers.
Our Gurus also receive Friendly, expertise-based service is fundamental to profitable and leadership development and a pay award.
We anticipate having two sustainable sales growth.
When customers have a better experience Gurus per store.
at Halfords they will spend more with us and recommend us to their friends.
The Service Revolution will ensure customers are served by The 3-Gears programme profoundly changes our expectations of our colleagues who are enthusiastic about their role at Halfords and the colleagues and sends a clear message on the focus of their role and products and services we offer.
the importance we place on helping them succeed.
Unfortunately, we have let other pressures and processes get in This particular investment is one of the most important we will make the way of service and our focus on recruitment, development and as we commit a total of 7m Retail operating-cost investment in FY14 retention has not been what it should be: consequently colleague across the Service Revolution and the pay review.
A further 7m of turnover is very high.
operating cost will be invested in Retail colleagues this year across 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 30 Group Chief Executive Officers Review continued Halfords has some award winning products in many areas... better product development and design, Growing success with extended range of Pendleton branded bikes stronger value.
Cycle Repair, Fitting and incentives, depending on volumes and Our research also demonstrates the need to focus on our core areas performance.
and to rebuild our credentials as a specialist retailer across the Auto and Cycling ranges.
We believe more authority is a route to competitive To give customers better service we are also working on our basic retail advantage and that specialism is something we should celebrate.
We have not been delivering to a high enough standard on many of these: that is now changing.
Innovation is key and we will work harder to delight our customers and colleagues.
We plan more special buys and to use our third pillar to There is a lot of work underway to improve our retail disciplines.
For instance we have just bought 1,000 inflatable kayaks instance we are removing unnecessary task from colleagues so they that we will retail at 99.99 as an exciting addition for family holiday can focus more time on customers.
Store-friendly deliveries will take adventures this summer.
place out of hours and wont interfere with service.
Deliveries will also be organised in a way that takes less time to check in and unload.
Our initiatives within our motoring pillar include a new partnership with Finally we are moving to pick-friendly warehouses so colleagues can battery supplier, Yuasa, to introduce electronic diagnostic terminals into easily find and replenish stock.
This allows us to reset a cars electronic system after work on the battery of a modern stop start car, something no other retailer is We also know that availability has been a key area where our service doing on such a large scale.
To improve we have introduced efficient hand-held scanners in each store that support us counting stock and The government is expected to commit to a digital radio switch-over maintaining the overall integrity of our stock file.
We are preparing for this opportunity with new audio ranges built through excellent relations with the worlds leading radio The business is currently holding an historic low of stock as a result of manufacturers.
some improved processes and old stock clear-outs: however, in some areas this has impacted store availability and overall trading capability.
To Inspire Cyclists of Every Age we are planning to make this The Year During FY14 we anticipate investing an incremental 15m20m in of the Cycle at Halfords, building on the momentum created around Retail stock.
Part of this is natural rebuild but the majority will support the Olympics last year.
We have a series of range re-launches planned, improved in-store availability and our ambitions in PACs.
including our exclusive Voodoo and Boardman ranges.
We are adding several new models to the successful Pendleton range and later in the 2.
The H Factor year we are re-launching a new range of Apollo bikes.
We have also just been appointed by Sky as their technical partner for Sky Rides Reasserting our proposition authority is a priority we are labelling the across the country.
This will help promote our Cycle Repair offer to the H Factor.
150,000 participating cyclists alongside the Sky brand.
Halfords has some award-winning products in many areas of the Meanwhile the launch of 15,000 PACs lines is going live this month and business but our analysis concludes we need to do even better we are advertising our Cycle Repair offer on the radio and in the press.
This means better product development and design, stronger value and better space allocation to support growth To Equip Families for their Leisure Time we have just launched our opportunities in new or existing ranges.
new camping range, incorporating Vango for the first time, a brand synonymous with camping, as well as a new range of camping By the end of the summer we plan to have rebalanced c. 100 stores, accessories.
moving child seats downstairs in stores with mezzanine floors, releasing space to cycling, better segmenting our Cycle offer and This momentum will continue, with greater innovation to create more reallocating space away from the Car Enhancement category.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 We are also reviewing our multichannel infrastructure as well as the 3.
Stores Fit to Shop operations of our fleet.
Like many other retailers, the Halfords IT system We have reviewed our store estate and concluded there is no good has much room for improvement.
Our systems have been modified to reason to reduce our store numbers significantly, as c. 99% of our 466 reflect increasing demands but are no longer suitable for our current stores generate a cash profit.
In the short-term, we have a number of must do core projects to complete, including a data-centre relocation, a SAP Our focus on driving profitable sales growth will keep the number of upgrade and a new store voice and data network.
We are investing in loss-making stores to a minimum.
Over the next three years we will our IT infrastructure and have recently recruited an IT Director to lead resize where we get the opportunity and will close a few stores as part this work.
We plan to make the space we occupy work harder and utilise our estate to support our digital ambitions.
Nearly Together with our digital plans we will invest c. 38m of capital 90% of online transactions are already picked up in-store: once in expenditure over the next three years in our IT and Digital plans.
store, we have the advantage of offering extra service.
Click with the Digital Future We do need more stores in Greater London where we are currently under-represented.
Over the coming years we will focus on achieving a Building our digital proposition is a key route to driving future top-line higher level of store-penetration inside the M25.
growth and maintaining our ongoing relevance.
We intend to maximise lease flexibility so we can manage our estate Our ambition is to create a service-led digital proposition.
Of all retailers efficiently from a trading perspective.
This involves securing more Halfords has the opportunity to be truly multichannel combining break clauses on lease renewals with our landlords and leveraging our the best of the web with friendly expertise in-store.
Our digital review, position to mitigate rent-increase pressures.
in conjunction with an external consultancy, shows that our current multichannel proposition doesnt provide a satisfactory customer In summary we dont anticipate any significant change in overall store experience.
We are therefore putting in place a schedule of work that numbers.
centres on a new website aligned around our three strategic pillars so that customers can shop in dedicated product zones.
The site will be In terms of the look and feel of our stores theres a lot of work to optimised for tablets and mobile devices, as these currently account do.
Much of our estate is no longer at an acceptable standard of for around 24% of online Retail sales: usage is expected to double over presentation and significantly lags behind our customers expectations, the next few years.
We will also develop community features, live chats, especially cyclists, where a fresh and modern store environment is integrated dynamic content, improved customer account management so important.
Last year we began to design a store format for the future with a trial We are working to improve our online fulfilment, especially on Reserve of a number of so-called laboratory stores.
We have reviewed the & Collect, stock availability, our returns capabilities and staff training progress of these stores throughout the year.
There are some very to improve service levels in-store.
Our recent focus on stock in the positive learnings but overall we dont believe the design is right for second half of the year has already resulted in improvements in our roll-out.
We have initiated a project to define a format that combines Reserve & Collect net promoter scores.
a more coherent customer journey, a focus on one centralised desk to support sales and service, introduces more live displays, brings our Investment Cycle Repair and wefit offer to the fore and supports us to trade the Through our review we believe we now have the right key priorities and overall store environment harder.
have detailed and clear action plans in place.
Work is well underway and we expect to have three stores up and We have the opportunity to be a specialist retailer with real service and running in the new format York, Coventry and Evesham by the end product authority in core categories.
Our ranges will be more innovative of the summer: we anticipate c. 1015 stores in the new format by the and will be designed to excite and delight customers.
be more inspirational environments where customers want to shop and where they will be greeted by knowledgeable colleagues who offer Over the next three years we expect to fully refurbish c. 150 stores and friendly expertise.
modernise all our cycling departments.
This will require an investment of c. 50m of capital expenditure.
Under Getting Into Gear 2016 we will be investing around 100m in Retail capital expenditure over three years which is an incremental 4.
21st Century Infrastructure 40m against previous run-rate guidance.
Around 50m of the The business has successfully completed the reorganisation of our investment will be targeted directly at stores.
distribution network around a central distribution centre in Coventry and a specialised cycle centre in Redditch.
We are now focusing our We also intend to invest around 21m in Retail operating costs in FY14 supply-chain work on supporting our service in-store, consistent over and above our FY13 expenditure, of which c. 11m is volume and stock availability and digital ambitions.
We have started a trial of performance dependent.
Key elements of this will be to support the air-lock deliveries where stock is delivered overnight, to be worked on Service Revolution and to support an uplift in LfL sales.
before the store opens in the morning so that it doesnt detract from colleagues serving customers and doesnt incur the costs of a night shift.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 32 Group Chief Executive Officers Review continued Milestones We have set operational milestones for both internal and external use.
These are not financial metrics but sustainable profitability will flow from the delivery of these milestones.
The following are some of the milestones that will support our target of 1bn of Group revenues in FY16: Milestones: Colleagues FY14 FY15 FY16 3-Gears All qualifying colleagues through Gear 1 50% colleagues through Gear 2 80% colleagues through Gear 2 Two Gear 3 colleagues per store Reduce % of colleagues 12.5% leaving within 3 months 10% Colleague Engagement 85% Group Milestones: Operational FY14 FY15 FY16 Autocentres opened 2030 2030 2030 Launch PACs Annual PACs sales growth 20% 20% Cycle Repair sales growth 25% 25% 25% Cycle departments brought up to date 100 180 180 Full store refits 1015 c. 60 c. 75 Launch new Retail website Mobile & tablet optimised site launched Milestones: Customers FY14 FY15 FY16 Net Promoter Score 60% 65% 70% Stores working stock outside 25% peak trading hours Majority of stores Current Activity Many of our strategic projects that will reposition Halfords Retail are already underway.
The results of this years Colleague Engagement Survey shows that we have made significant progress from last years results taking our Group colleague engagement score from 64% to 77%.
We are already seeing a step change in retail standards across our business.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33 The new management team is taking shape.
Rob Swyer was Conclusion appointed as Retail Director, David Durie as Marketing Director, Our review concludes that Halfords fulfils an important role for its Anna Barsby as IT Director and, most recently, Emma Fox as customers.
Their busy lives and leisure time rely on the products and Commercial Director.
We have a huge competitive advantage if we can deliver on our promise of friendly expert service and inspire and The 3-Gears programme was launched to our store managers at our excite more people to shop with us.
recent spring conference and the first training has taken place.
Our new recruitment website is already in operation and our new store The plans we are putting in place are essential to reposition Halfords format plan is taking shape.
to meet the challenges ahead.
We are targeting delivering profitable revenue growth over the medium and long-term.
We have appointed a new advertising agency, Mother: they are currently working on our summer campaign.
There is a lot of activity now underway at Halfords to execute this programme.
At this stage we anticipate that profits in FY14 may reduce We have begun trialling out-of-hours delivery to stores.
It is anticipated that Group EBITDA may not exceed current levels until FY16.
Thousands of new PACs lines are being launched online this month, which is the culmination of a long period of planning and preparation.
The Board is acutely aware of the importance of Halfords dividend to our shareholders.
However, our need to invest whilst maintaining both We have also started to improve our credentials within the communities an appropriate level of earnings cover and a robust balance sheet has in which we operate.
We have run a series of Kids Bikes Workshops led the Board to recommend a rebasing of the dividend.
Taking this over the Easter period, teaching thousands of kids basic bike action will ensure Halfords has a robust foundation on which to build maintenance skills and hopefully enthusing the next generation of and to maximise longer-term shareholder returns.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our colleagues for their immense contribution and commitment to the progress of our business and the implementation of our plan to reposition Halfords.
Matt Davies Group Chief Executive 23 May 2013 Halfords engaging the next generation of cyclists through our Kids Holiday Bike Clubs 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
