18 HAYS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVE ALISTAIR COX MY VIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW EXPERTISE AND COMMITMENT WE UNDERSTAND THE CHALLENGES OUR CLIENTS AND CANDIDATES FACE AROUND THE WORLD ALISTAIR COX, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 19 INTRODUCTION: MY VIEW OF 2013 Building a diversied business worldwide provides us with two advantages: a broader platform from which to grow, as well as a Against a fragile backdrop in several markets, we diversication into multiple markets and sectors so that we spread have made significant operational progress and our risk and reduce our reliance on any specic market.
We look delivered a resilient financial performance.
at diversication in three ways: by country, by industry sector or specialism and by contract form.
I believe the platform we have built 2013 was a year where we found ourselves facing fragile and very across all three dimensions is unique in our industry today and it has varied market conditions around the world.
Some areas, such as clearly stood us in good stead in a world that is as mixed as the one Southern Europe, continued to be tough and we saw a step-down we now live in.
in activity in certain markets, most notably in our Australian mining business.
At the same time, however, we enjoyed much more This diversication alone will not deliver resilient results however.
buoyant conditions in markets such as North America and Russia.
It needs to be combined with a exible but highly focused approach Different sectors also faced different fortunes.
Banking continued to running the business, responding quickly to changing market to be a difficult market worldwide, whereas the more  whenever and wherever they occur.
We have done this oriented sectors including IT & Engineering felt much stronger.
over the last couple of years as we have sought to capitalise on the long-term structural growth opportunities so evident in many of Against such a mixed backdrop, we have successfully delivered our markets while simultaneously delivering good profit and cash resilient and consistent Group net fees, operating profit and cash performances along the way.
In the last year there have been many generation.
The mixed market conditions are reected in our examples of this surgical and selective approach, and I describe a 1 performance around the world.
11 countries saw net fees decline number of these in my review of our progress in 2013 overleaf.
1 in the year, but 14 countries delivered net fee growth of over 10%.
Some of our newer businesses, in markets as diverse as Colombia A key priority of mine in 2013 has been the return to profitability 1 and Malaysia, more than doubled their net fees in the year.
Similarly, of our UK business and I am delighted that we delivered on that while net fees in more difficult markets such as Resources & Mining fell promise, as we said we would.
Again, I will discuss this in more detail 1 1 by over 30%, we grew by more than 10% in industries as diverse in the next section.
as Oil & Gas, Life Sciences and IT & Engineering.
The final point I want to make is regarding the quality of our people.
Delivering these results is due to two things: rstly, the diversied Hays is the ultimate people business and the operational progress business we have very deliberately built over many years: and we have made and financial performance we have delivered over secondly, our nimble and surgical approach to making investment the year would not have been possible without the expertise and and operational decisions around the world.
commitment of our 8,000 experts around the world.
Hays people are the best in the industry at understanding their local markets, the challenges faced by their clients and candidates and identifying and exploiting opportunities to drive growth wherever they are available.
The skill and expertise of our people is what sets Hays apart and I would like to thank each of them for their contribution this year.
On the next page I detail our Group strategy.
It is built around the four Strategic Pillars that underpin everything we do, regardless of where we are in the economic cycle.
I also outline our current areas of operational focus, with an update on our progress against each SHARE of them over the last year and our priorities for the next 12 months.
YOUR VIEW FOLLOW ALISTAIR COXS LINKEDIN INFLUENCER BLOG FOLLOW HAYS INVESTOR RELATIONS ON TWITTER @HAYSPLCIR 20 HAYS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 MY VIEW CONTINUED CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED OUR STRATEGY OUR AIMS SPECIALIST RECRUITMENT BUSINESS AND PROFITABLE GROWTH OUR FOUR STRATEGIC PILLARS 12 3 4 ONE HAYS AROUND GROWTH TAILORED TO BEST PEOPLE IN EFFICIENCY AND THE WORLD MARKET OPPORTUNITIES THE INDUSTRY OPERATIONAL % # !#.
1 0 0 customer service in existing countries.
"client needs mobility through automated % !33 5 "" back-office systems addressing our markets 0!#."
% # social media channels OUR OPERATIONAL FOCUS FULLY CAPITALISE ON ALL OPPORTUNITIES RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Exploit buoyant markets Performance-driven remuneration Further build scale and diversity Active local management and dedicated local recruitment Fully capitalise on long-term structural opportunities Best-in-class training and development DEFEND AND MAXIMISE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUE TO RESEARCH AND RESPOND TO NEW MEDIA Further improve UK financial performance Position the Group to capitalise on all opportunities Targeted, selective investment only where appropriate Anticipate and understand potential threats Focus on consultant productivity everywhere Build partnerships RESPOND TO AND BEST SERVE EXISTING AND EVOLVING CLIENT DEMANDS Local network and expertise Efficient large corporate client offering Evolving product offering OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 21 PROGRESS AGAINST OUR OBJECTIVES IN 2013 Our long-term aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist THE BEST IN THOUGHT recruitment business.
We will achieve this by following the four LEADERSHIP, THE themes in our Strategic Pillars for long-term growth and complementing this through our areas of Operational Focus HAYS JOURNAL by which we manage the business to deliver sustainable and meaningful profits along the way.
In addition, we measure the business performance and our strategic progress against a list The Hays Journal is a of Key Performance Indicators which you will nd on page 26. bi-annual global publication Let me outline, however, the progress we made over the last year.
providing insight and news Returning the UK business into profit for HR and recruitment Last year I set out my number one priority as returning the UK to profit and I am delighted to report that we achieved that goal.
Over professionals on the the course of the year, we delivered a 12.1 million profit turnaround ever-changing world in our UK & Ireland business.
The market certainly offered us little help and indeed net fees were marginally down year-on-year.
Find out what Several parts of the market, notably banking and finance, remained is in the latest issue very difficult.
The driver of our improved performance, however, was management action.
With the UK job market activity today roughly and get back issues half what it was in 2008, we have materially reduced our cost base at hays-journal.
com or to address this severe market downturn.
Over recent years, we have reduced costs in the UK by over 30%.
We have consolidated our download our new Hays office footprint from 235 at peak to 102 offices today and reduced headcount by over 40% since the peak.
In our back-office we have Journal app to your tablet.
automated and streamlined our administration functions while in the front-office we have focused our efforts on maximising the productivity of our recruitment consultants, increasing consultant Selective investment and capitalising on growth opportunities productivity by 7% in 2013.
Not only that but we have also invested Operating across 33 countries and 20 areas of specialism, with a heavily in our recruitment and training programmes so that we balanced mix of business across temporary, permanent and contractor attract and develop the very best people available.
Our investments markets has been a significant advantage to the Group this year.
In in technology over the last three years equip our consultants with todays volatile markets, being overexposed to any single industry the best tools available so that they can be as productive as possible or country would pose a risk to the Groups financial performance.
and reach their full potential.
The results over the last year are a great illustration of the benets we are now enjoying via these By its nature however, having such a diverse business model implies investments in our people.
that not all markets will simultaneously perform in the same way.
Across our many businesses, we have witnessed very rapid As well as delivering a meaningful turnaround in profitability, we changes in market conditions and this required rapid and surgical 1 exited the year with net fee growth of 3% in the second half: the management action.
We have had to rigorously reduce costs in more first half of year-on-year growth in our UK business for three years.
challenging areas and have taken appropriate action to adjust the Areas such as IT, Life Sciences and other technically skilled industries size of our business where markets have deteriorated.
At the same offered opportunities for growth and as the year progressed: other time, however, we have aggressively invested to drive growth where markets which were amongst those most affected by the recession, market conditions and outlook were more supportive.
including Construction & Property, started to show some improvement.
While it remains early days, these signs give us encouragement.
There are many examples of this approach in action around the world.
In Southern Europe, conditions have been tough throughout Our focus going forward will be to continue to drive UK fee growth the year and cost control has remained a priority to best protect in these more robust parts of the market, keep a rm control on our financial performance there.
In France, while the market has costs and do all we can to help maximise the productivity and progressively become much more difficult through the year, our effectiveness of our people.
By relentlessly focusing on these areas, focus on productivity has actually seen us increase fees marginally if the market backdrop remains supportive, we are confident that our year-on-year, signicantly outperforming the market.
Our mining UK business will continue its financial and operational recovery and business in Australia has enjoyed several years of extremely strong quickly become a material contributor to Group profits once again.
However, the mining industry slowdown, starting in our second quarter, resulted in a dramatic fall in recruitment for that sector.
Again we took rapid action, reducing headcount quickly to defend our financial performance.
Despite these market swings, we still delivered a conversion rate of 35% in Australia, which we consider market-leading at any point in the economic cycle.
22 HAYS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 MY VIEW CONTINUED CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Counter-balancing these difficult markets has been the relative resilience of many of the more technical, specialist sectors.
Areas UNDERSTANDING such as Oil & Gas, Life Sciences and IT & Engineering continue to NEW AND EMERGING suffer from skills shortages worldwide and provide us with opportunities for growth.
We have taken advantage of this by TECHNOLOGIES investing aggressively in each of these areas.
We are already the global market leader in Life Sciences recruitment and have reinforced that further.
In Germany we are by far the leader in IT recruitment but we have invested in the IT sector across many other countries to build their respective market positions.
Our Oil & Gas business had an excellent year and there remain significant opportunities to leverage our existing global network to continue to build this business.
Overlaying this, a trend we continue to see is that of employers seeking to increase the exibility of their labour forces.
This is coupled with a trend amongst many employees to build their career around project roles at numerous employers, often in various parts of the world.
These trends play well to our strategy to build equally strong businesses in both the temporary and contractor staff markets as well as in the permanent recruitment world.
To capitalise on this, we have invested in the roll-out of our IT Contractor model to We have established a well-dened process to monitor and appropriate markets including Canada, France, Belgium, Poland and understand how new and emerging technologies are impacting the Netherlands.
Leveraging the world-class expertise we have in every stage of the recruitment process.
We believe that this is our highly successful German operation, we have been able to essential so we can continue to best serve and advise our clients, quickly build the expertise and infrastructure required to start up capitalise on all new opportunities, and understand and mitigate these businesses within our existing operations.
This is an excellent any potential threats to our business.
example of how we have the scale and worldwide reach to quickly take good ideas and transport them around the globe to build big As one part of this ongoing work, we formalised our working new businesses quickly and at relatively low risk.
partnership with social media network LinkedIn during the year.
This unique partnership is broad in nature and evolving, but our This approach to managing our business, investing aggressively initial areas of focus have been on building our presence on the to capitalise on growth opportunities while actively controlling the network in terms of increasing awareness of the Hays brand, as shape and size of the business to defend our financial performance well as offering relevant jobs to members.
We have continued in more challenging areas, has been the central plank of our success to establish groups of professionals in specic regions or this year.
It will remain our focus for as long as conditions around us specialisms around the world, and provide those groups with continue to be so mixed and volatile.
We have also worked with LinkedIn to establish cross-system awareness between the PRIORITIES AND FOCUS FOR 2014 Hays candidate database and the LinkedIn member population.
Regardless of the prevailing market conditions we face, our longThis provides Hays consultants with real-time, up-to-date term aims and the structural growth opportunities in our industry information: something that is critical in todays fast-moving remain unchanged and we will continue to work within the framework digital world.
of our four Strategic Pillars as we build towards achieving them.
Find out more by visiting Hays on LinkedIn at linkedin.
com It is also crucial, however, that we continue to deliver short-term financial performance along the way.
In a business like ours, which has such limited visibility, it is challenging to make accurate longterm forecasts.
However, looking ahead to 2014, we expect the overall market backdrop to remain mixed.
347,000 Opportunities for growth are likely to sit side by side with more FOLLOWERS ON LINKEDIN challenging areas and conditions will remain volatile.
We must therefore quickly respond to the changes we see in our markets.
We must be nimble to spot opportunities to drive growth and target areas for investment, but keep control of costs where necessary.
31st Achieving this balance will continue to be the key to our success.
MOST FOLLOWED COMPANY GLOBALLY ON LINKEDIN OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 23 FOLLOW ALISTAIR COX FOLLOW ALISTAIR COXS LINKEDIN ON LINKEDIN INFLUENCER BLOG FOR NEW FOLLOW HAYS INVESTOR RELATIONS PERSPECTIVES ON THE WORLD ON TWITTER @HAYSPLCIR OF WORK With this in mind, our primary focus will be on the following areas Looking ahead to 2014, we in the 2014 financial year: expect the overall market Further improve financial performance in the UK Having successfully delivered a return to profit in the UK business in backdrop to remain mixed.
2013, over the next year we will be focused on ensuring that progress is maintained.
Specic priorities include: Opportunities for growth are Positioning our business to fully capitalise on all market segments likely to sit side by side with which offer immediate opportunities for growth.
Selectively investing in and aligning resources to more resilient parts of the more challenging areas.
market: Continuing to drive improvement in the productivity of our recruitment consultants: and Keeping a rm control on costs, especially in our back-office and operational functions.
our recent investments moves into or very close to profit this year.
Equally, should some of our more established markets become more Invest to position the Group for long-term structural growth difficult, we will quickly respond to defend their profitability.
opportunities, while delivering short-term results Having put in place our international network, our focus now is on We will continue to invest in those sectors where we see good building critical mass in those areas that can become most material market conditions.
Oil & Gas and IT Contracting are examples to us and build more countries to match the scale of Australia, where we have strong local positions in markets characterised Germany and the UK.
This will give us a bigger platform for growth by skills shortages, but still see opportunities to expand our but also reduce our profit concentration.
Countries which offer the presenceglobally.
potential to achieve this over the next five years include Canada, Japan, France and Brazil.
Clearly each of these markets are at Continue to evolve our routes to market different stages in their economic cycle so our short-term The one certainty about our world is that it will continue to change investment approach will be tailored to suit, but we expect to invest and evolve.
The recruitment industry is not immune as new aggressively in whichever of these markets offers us opportunities technologies allow people to communicate with and access the job this year.
and talent market in new ways.
Our role as an expert adviser to help employers nd the scarce talent they need or for professionals to A number of our smaller countries and recent start-ups are focused nd the right career move for themselves remains undiminished.
on achieving sufficient scale to consistently deliver profits.
While we However, we also recognise that the way we provide these services accept that start-up country operations will be loss-making in their needs to keep pace with how individuals run their own lives and early stages, we are specically focused on ensuring that each of businesses.
While the essence of our value is in the expertise of our people, giving them the tools to be as effective as possible is vital.
That is why we have invested in our technology programmes and we are now seeing the fruits of these investments.
Last year, for example, our approach to using technology to help our consultants BUILDING CRITICAL enabled us to formalise a unique relationship with LinkedIn.
This MASS ACROSS THE HAYS provides us with a new route to build long-lasting relationships with literally millions of professional people worldwide and to help them PLATFORM nd their perfect role.
Based on that partnership, we are now by far the most followed recruitment company in the world: indeed We are focused on further diversifying our revenue streams and one of the most followed companies globally in any industry on the building critical mass across the existing Hays platform.
Clearly the insights we provide around one of the part of this is the roll out of our successful IT Contractor business most important aspects of any professionals life their career are into appropriate markets around the world.
So while we cannot predict how future technologies will emerge, we can ensure that we build a capability to search out This year we have established our IT Contractor businesses and leverage these new tools to our own advantage.
That is why we in Canada, France and Japan as well as four other countries.
now have a dedicated team in place whose task is to keep us at the In each country, we have built an infrastructure and process to forefront of these evolutions and I believe that further sets us apart take account of local regulations and working practices, but in todays recruitment industry.
each is mentored by senior leaders from our market-leading Germanbusiness.
24 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 P ERFORMANCE IN THIS SECTION 26 Key Performance Indicators 28 Principal Risks 30 Financial Review 34 Divisional Operating Reviews 40 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report Life Sciences represents around a quarter of our net fees in Russia, and has been a core specialism driving the rapid growth of our business there.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 25 RUSSIA NEXT WAVE MARKET THE OPPORTUNITY: Although there are a significant number of recruitment companies in Russia, the vast majority of all qualied, professional roles are lled by in-house HR and recruitment teams.
We continue to capitalise on the trend, notably amongst multinational companies with operations in Russia, to outsource more of their recruitment to companies such as Hays.
Driving this change is a need to source candidates who are often in short supply in higher skilled areas, as well as the globalisation of candidate sourcing into the Russian workforce.
Increasingly, clients see the expert advice offered by recruitment professionals as a key part of their hiring process.
HAYS OFFICES: RUSSIA MOSCOW ST PETERSBURG OPENED IN 2013 2 40% YEAR-ON-YEAR NET FEE GROWTH IN 1 RUSSIA IN FULL YEAR 2013 HAYS IN RUSSIA Russia is an important developing global market, and one that we see as being key to our Groups development over the next five to 10 years.
We entered the Russian market in 2009, opening our first office in Moscow, and since 2010 we have grown net fees by a cumulative average growth rate of 1 96% per year, including 40% growth in 2013.
In February 2013 we opened our second Russian office in St Petersburg and we now have 73 recruitment consultants in the business, up from 56 a year ago.
Our core specialisms in Russia are Life Sciences and Sales & Marketing, but we continue to diversify, building significant businesses across newer areas such as Financial Services, HR and Legal.
HAYS IN ACTION When Eisai Co. Ltd, one of the worlds leading research-based pharmaceutical companies, entered the Russian market, Hays was the preferred supplier of talent due to our relationship with the company in its home country of Japan.
Hays experts worked with the company on key hires both in Life Sciences and also across HR and Accountancy & Finance functions, supporting Eisais move into a new country.
Recruitment of quality staff with the right skills and expertise of the local market is a critical step in overall start-up strategy.
Hays experts support us by providing quality candidates and local labour market insights.
Igor Galaburda, Eisai Russias General Manager To nd out more visit hays.
ru 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
