REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Chief Executives statement Against a backdrop of subdued consumer spending, the Group has achieved a good outcome to what has been a challenging year.
Both our businesses delivered market share We delivered a number of initiatives during growth, although their respective total markets the second half of the year.
The website was declined further as customers continued to face refreshed in October 2012 and 1-click Check pressure on their disposable incomes.
& Reserve functionality has improved the Argos delivered its first year of like-for-like customer journey.
Trials began in January 2013 sales growth in five years, supported by its to test the hub and spoke distribution model multi-channel performance with sales and a new Argos catalogue format.
The latter growth in a number of categories, most notably enables immediate collection on a selection of consumer electronics.
Homebase delivered lines and next day collection on an extended a creditable performance in its peak trading range of products which are available online.
period, given the adverse impact of record We are pleased with the progress that Argos Terry Duddy poor weather conditions on its seasonal product has made so far on its transformation plan and Chief Executive sales and the difficult market conditions in big further improvements will be delivered in the ticket categories.
As the UKs leading home and general Homebase has a clear agenda for growth, merchandise retailer, we have continued to with plans for investment in refitting the strengthen our customer propositions in an majority of its stores combined with a major step environment where shopping behaviours are forward in its multi-channel capability ensuring changing rapidly, with both businesses improving it improves the Homebase customer proposition.
product choice and delivering further value for The latest concept stores in Ruislip and Solihull our customers.
In addition, the Groups strong have begun to deliver strong financial results and financial position has provided us with the customer feedback has been excellent, while opportunity to commence the major improvements in multi-channel have seen sales programmes of capital investment to deliver the penetration and website visits increase.
We are growth plans in place for both businesses as they pleased with the progress that Homebase has implement their respective strategies.
made so far on its enhanced proposition and On the basis of a comprehensive business further improvements will be delivered in the review, we identified clear opportunities to 2013 14 financial year.
transform the Argos business through our highly successful internet and mobile commerce Digital leadership and accelerating channels, and by building on our supply chain multi-channel advantages and improving our customer offer.
Home Retail Group has been at the forefront of As a consequence, we announced in October advances in technology that have brought about 2012 plans to reinvent Argos as a digital retail a fundamental and permanent shift in the way leader over the next five years, underpinned by a consumers shop.
Increasingly, they choose to three-year investment programme to reposition shop online, or on the move through mobile it from a catalogue-led to a digitally-led business.
devices, principally for pick-up in a local store but also for home delivery.
There are four key elements to the Argos Argos continued to grow its multi-channel transformation plan: sales penetration in the year, such that it now Reposition Argos channels for a represents 2.0bn or 51% of its total sales, up digital future: from 48% a year earlier.
Internet sales grew Provide more product choice, which is 10% to reach 42% of Argos total sales, with available to customers faster: online Check & Reserve, at 31% of total sales, Develop a customer offer that has universal remaining the fastest growing channel.
Argos appeal: and website and app visits increased by 24% with Operate a leaner and more flexible cost base.
mobile commerce continuing to see a rapid rise in customer usage to represent 10% of Argos total sales.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 7 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chief Executives statement continued Homebases internet sales participation has Compelling customer offering cost efficiency initiatives together with a lower grown by 16% and now represents 5% of its total The Group ensures that customers continue level of unit volumes.
We will continue to review sales, driven principally by Reserve and Collect.
to receive excellent service, value and choice and challenge the Groups cost base to ensure we Homebase released a refreshed website during by maximising its buying scale and sourcing maintain its low-cost operating model.
the year to showcase its key brands, in particular capabilities, particularly via direct import and the inclusion of Habitat.
It also launched a direct sourcing of product.
Financial strength transactional mobile website for home delivery Argos has maintained its commitment to The Group has strong cash flow characteristics items and store reservations.
being highly price competitive through the use with 396m of net cash as at 2 March 2013.
In of weekly price comparisons, ensuring its price addition, the Group has recently agreed a 165m New format development and store estate position is better than the competition on its committed borrowing facility which is undrawn Homebase has continued the evolution of its highest sales volume lines.
This is enhanced and which expires in March 2016. new store proposition which was initiated in through WOW offers and the Argos Value Aylesford in 2011, with the refit of Ruislip and range.
Social networks also present a good Outlook Solihull in 2012, which include Habitat and Laura opportunity to engage with our customer base Our view of the 2013 14 financial year is that Ashley concessions.
Elsewhere, mezzanine and via Facebook or Twitter.
it will remain similar to 2012 13 with consumer garden centre refits were undertaken to enhance Homebase continues to use a range of spending continuing to be impacted by ongoing further the big ticket and garden propositions.
promotions to drive customer loyalty with its inflationary pressures and low levels of consumer The Groups store portfolio of 1,073 stores Nectar customer base exceeding seven million confidence.
However, the Groups strong remains a core component of its multi-channel active customers.
Direct mail packs are also sent financial position enables us to deliver on the offer.
The Argos national chain of pick up points to customers to increase brand engagement transformation plan to reinvent Argos as a are complementary to its multi-channel offer and social media interaction via the Homebase digital retail leader and to invest in the rollout with nearly 90% of all sales continuing to involve Facebook app has seen Homebase posts viewed of the Homebase proposition, and as a result, the store in some way.
With around 345 store over 3.2 million times in the year.
ensure that the Group is well positioned for lease renewals or break clauses due over the next economic recovery.
five years, representing about one-third of the Continued cost management store portfolio, the Group has ongoing flexibility The Group has a strong track record of delivering Terry Duddy to adjust the store portfolio to strategic and significant organisational and infrastructure Chief Executive market conditions.
changes which improve the flexibility of our businesses and reduce costs, while maintaining Product leadership and exclusive brands or improving operational standards.
During the year, Argos expanded its range of The Groups operational and distribution cost own brands with a further 700 lines included base peaked at 2,050m in the 2008 9 financial in the Spring Summer 2013 catalogue.
Since this time, underlying cost inflation has Furthermore, Argos has extended its range run at 1-2% per annum, adding approximately of tablet computers to capture market share 125m to the Groups cost base over the last and enhanced its convenience credentials four years.
We have more than offset this through its in-store white goods offer.
cost increase with cost savings over the same Homebases exclusive brand strategy, four-year period of approximately 267m, to together with its differentiated proposition, achieve a reported cost reduction of 142m has driven market-share gains for the fourth over the same four-year period, and a reported consecutive year.
Habitat products are now cost base of 1,908m in the 2012 13 financial available in over 200 Homebase stores and year.
These cost reductions have been achieved Homebases market-leading installation services through a rationalisation of the distribution across kitchen, bathroom and bedroom furniture network, store-based management ranges continue to achieve a customer restructuring programmes, headcount recommendation rate in excess of 90%.
reductions in central office and numerous other 8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013
