Chief Executives statement INTRODUCTION clothes, mending things, decorating, teaching, reading, looking up things What makes Howdens The first point I would like to make on the computer, making plans, unique is the way the this year is that Howdens strategy booking tickets, watching television, model is executed and the is proven.
The business has grown listening to music, agreeing, importance of individuals in precisely because the model has disagreeing and making decisions.
every part of the business worked, so we are not about to change it or reinvent it.
So the kitchen is where real life happens, and in order to make it In recent years we have faced a work as smoothly as possible we series of interconnected hurdles all need all the help we can get.
which finally seem to be thinning out.
Throughout this time, Howdens It is fundamental for us to business has gone on generating understand not only the functionality profit and cash and that is why of the kitchen but also the emotion we have been able to survive and of it: what it feels like when it works, thrive, despite both MFI and a and when it doesnt work.
If we cannot understand, or were So we intend to stick to our not interested in what it feels like to principles and do more of what we need help, we will never understand do well.
Growth will be around what what it means to give help, and to works.
Its not about extraordinary deliver products and services that depots or upmarket kitchens.
And that in about solid, no-nonsense, local turn means that we will never fully service at good prices for product realise the promise of our mission that works, looks good, is easy statement and the huge potential of to install, wont break and makes our business.
I will come back to this money on a repeat basis.
Our model is not a mystery.
We SERVING THE BUILDERS NEEDS do what it says in our mission statement.
What makes Howdens Howdens sells only to builders.
unique, however, is the way Today, in 2014, it is no longer the model is executed and the possible to have a kitchen that importance of individuals in every both looks good and works part of the business and that is properly installed without the what I will discuss in this review.
Thats why we sell only to IN THE KITCHEN professionals.
We dont have Let me begin in the kitchen.
All national contracts with large firms.
We do just We sell directly to small, local about everything in the kitchen.
builders who in our view are best Preparing food, cooking it, eating placed to fit kitchens on the spot it, washing up, storing the leftovers, in their local area.
throwing things away, washing 10 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Every day, the local builder has to they look good, they dont break, juggle with a whole set of unknowns.
theyre quick and easy to install and Our purpose is not just Will everyone be on time this theyre built to last.
The same goes to sell kitchens to the morning?
Have you got another set for our Lamona appliances, as well builder but to provide him of keys?
Hows the as for all our kitchens and joinery.
with a service of value traffic?
Is the We also offer the builder a free weather that bad?
Whats behind that kitchen planning service.
Have they changed their minds over 1,000 experienced designers again?
Can I finish the job today?
who use the latest software to make All of these questions, and dozens detailed plans to suit the needs of more, directly affect how much the builder and of his customer, the money the builder makes and end-user of the kitchen.
whether or not he can stay in Howdens designers save the business.
That is where Howdens builder time and money and give comes in.
First, they Its how we sell to builders that make home visits to take accurate makes the difference as well as measurements.
Then, they work what we sell to them.
We have 559 out the best layout, give help with local depots, and because they are product selection and produce so local to the builder he can save revised plans if end-users want precious driving time.
Howdens to make changes which they depots are not shops but trade often do.
The quality of Howdens counters: a familiar environment planning service sets the builder for professionals, where the apart from his competitors.
builder can get served quickly Our purpose is not just to sell by a knowledgeable person who kitchens to the builder but to provide recognises his face, understands him with a service of value, which what he needs, and can do means he can rely on us to help him something to help.
We keep all our products in stock.
So if the builder needs help with So the builder can pick up a deliveries to site, his local depot complete kitchen now, today all of will organise a local van.
He doesnt have to factor in lead fitting advice he can pick up the times, or worry about where hes phone to a local expert, not struggle going to store the kitchen until he with a call centre.
Our kitchen cabinets are change any item, for any reason, already assembled, which saves the our local managers are authorised builder a lot of time on site in other to swap things immediately without words, money.
We also know the builder needs quality products that he can fit as efficiently as possible, which means 11 Chief Executives statement continued And finally, the builder relies on regional and national incentives Howdens for terms of business which relate to account openings, Its about the person that underpin his livelihood.
depot margin, door sales, oven representing the stock, and sales and so on.
There are lots of the fact that that person can We offer a personal, confidential possibilities and we can switch do something about it.
Service discount so that the builder can them on whenever we want.
thats as good as it ever was control his margin for each job, and a nett monthly credit account, which These incentives are mirrored means he can pick up a complete right across the business.
kitchen from local stock and not Staff in product development, have to pay for it for up to 60 days.
manufacturing, logistics, IT, finance That allows him to complete the job and all our support functions are all and get paid for it by his customer incentivised to offer better service before he has to pay us.
The alignment of incentives is critical to our business, Today, as daily life becomes ever and so is the continuing focus more complex and frustrating, required to make sure they remain reliable service from trusted relevant and effective.
individuals is valued more and more highly.
The core depot model is one that we have tried and tested, so we keep So its not just about product, or replicating it.
The typical Howdens even about stock.
Its about the depot is about 10,000 square feet person representing the stock, and in size, about 80% of which is the fact that that person can do warehousing because we are an something about it.
The rest of the space is occupied This is what I mean when I say by the product displays, the trade that individuals make a difference counter and the CAD planning office, in fact, all the difference to the which now benefits from highsuccessful execution of our model.
definition projectors or large plasma screens and will shortly have A3 HOW THE HOWDENS printers as well so that the end-user DEPOT WORKS can see their new kitchen taking Local autonomy is key to the shape in a highly realistic way.
Our managers are effectively running FURTHER IMPROVEMENT their own businesses and are IN DEPOT PERFORMANCE highly incentivised to make The first task of a new depot is sure they work well.
to open new accounts, because accounts are the lifeblood of sales.
We have always had local profitLast year, we opened 20,000 net sharing for all depot managers new accounts, bringing the total and their staff.
We also run local, account base to nearly 290,000.
12 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 It is hard to overstate the importance We continue to focus on improving of accounts to our business.
New the performance of individual So it would appear that there accounts opened in 2013 generated depots.
We use something we is a lot more latent, local over 100m of sales.
The value of call BDP, or best demonstrated demand for the Howdens offer an individual account grows over practice, which is a way of than we had originally realised the years, and as well as bringing us allowing depots to measure their sales and margin it helps us to grow own performance, not against an via reputation and recommendation.
average but against the best in terms of sales, margin, sales per We actively manage our account head, account openings, sales per base, closing inactive accounts account, appliance penetration and after 15 months and exercising tight cost recovery, to mention just some credit control.
The total cost of our of the relevant indicators.
credit control operation, including bad debts, has decreased to just I want to emphasise that BDP is 1% of sales, which suggests that not theory-driven.
It depends on builders are even more prepared to every individual in every depot pay promptly for the service offered understanding what they have by Howdens.
achieved and what they are capable of achieving.
We opened 30 new depots in 2013, bringing the total at the year end to The best way we have found of 559.
Given the success of recent ensuring that happens is by holding depot openings, we plan to open regular local meetings where we another 30 in 2014. discuss the profit and loss account of each depot, line by line, face Our average depot rent across the to face, in small groups, with the whole portfolio is around 5.50 per managers responsible for depots in square foot, and we can still fit out a towns and cities of similar size.
depot for a reasonable cost, which is usually between 180,000 and As we have explained in previous 300,000 even though we are now years, we are not suffering from including a mezzanine level, better cannibalisation.
When we open racking and a new CAD office in the new depots in areas where we are fit-out.
This is not about doing up already present, the effect is to showrooms year in, year out these increase the overall sales we achieve are one-off capital costs.
So it would appear that there is a lot more latent, local A depot breaks even with sales of demand for the Howdens offer than around 650,000 per year, so it will we had originally realised.
come as no surprise to know that all our depots are profitable, and some are very profitable.
13 Chief Executives statement continued Let me give you an example.
This of good, profitable depots providing time last year, I described our good product from reliable sources Lots of good, profitable progress in the Watford area where from stock every day.
depots providing good we opened our first depot in 1995 product from reliable sources While we are on the subject of right at the start of Howdens, and we from stock every day depots, we are pleased with the added another depot just over four performance of our eleven depots in miles away, in North Watford, in 2011.
France, which are now profitable at We have now had two full years of depot level.
trading both depots and the picture Although we do not expect them to is even more encouraging than become as profitable as UK depots it was a year ago.
Sales from the owing to the higher costs of doing Watford area are now 54% up on business in France, we hope to 2010 with profit contribution from the improve the profits of our French two depots ahead by 45% over the depots still further over the coming same period.
year following a change in the price Watford is a representative case, discount structure.
We continue to not an outstanding one.
In the learn more about the French market, Cambridge area, for example, we and will report again on progress at have seen both sales and profit the half-year.
contribution virtually double after two full years of trading two depots A CONSTANT FLOW in the same town.
OF NEW PRODUCT Meanwhile, back in the UK, all our As far as the future is concerned, we depots need a constant flow of plan to go on opening local depots relevant new product, which means wherever we see good opportunities product they know they can sell.
for them to become profitable.
And That is why we continue to invest let me reiterate: we want to go on in the depth of our product range, doing what we do well.
building on winning designs, and doing more of what we do well, It is important to remember that BDP so that we can meet the needs of is about staying focused on what builders and their customers at all works, not about over-performance.
Over the years, we have developed depots that achieve exceptional Just one figure serves to underline levels of sales but they are, and the importance of new product are likely to remain, outliers.
Last year, 17% of our grow, we want to fide-risk execution, sales came from product launched so growth is not about trying to since January 2012. replicate top performers although that is a nice thought.
For the In order to minimise new product same reason its not about having risk, we run large-scale product ground-breaking designs although roadshows twice a year.
No: its about having lots roadshows we take new products 14 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 which we have developed in our Lamona appliances include a full own design studios or sourced range of ovens, hobs, extractors, Lamona has now become a from our network of suppliers dishwashers, refrigeration, laundry notable brand in its own right.
around the country, and we discuss and sinks and taps.
It is already a UK bestthese products with all of our seller in several categories All of these are manufactured to our 1,000 designers and our 559 depot design and to our specifications, managers so that we get direct which are extremely demanding.
feedback about what they need Lamona products must achieve and what they can sell.
outstanding reliability, otherwise we The most notable current trend in are not prepared to put our brand kitchens is the increasing popularity on them.
All our Lamona appliances of gloss finishes, which now account come with a two-year warranty for over 40% of our kitchen sales by as standard.
Lamona has now become a notable Our Greenwich Gloss family in brand in its own right.
It is already a particular continues to be extremely UK best-seller in several categories: successful.
This is a well-designed for example, we sell 70,000 product at a highly competitive price conventional Lamona ovens every that nonetheless allows us to sustain year, and we see significant potential margin growth.
As a result of its success, and We are supporting the growth reflecting the continuing trend to of Lamona and of Howdens as solid colours which now represent increasingly well-known names 75% of all our kitchen sales, we are with a new series of cookbooks, now introducing more colours for the and are developing other items in Greenwich Gloss family which will association with like-minded brands be rolled out across the business in such as Emma Bridgewater, with the first half of this year.
whom we have produced a set of specially designed Howdens mugs, We are also making good progress to be shortly followed by other items with joinery doors.
In this important that make the kitchen feel like home.
category, just as we did with kitchens, we have introduced AN EFFICIENT, LOW-COST a lower-priced alternative to a SUPPLY OPERATION successful design.
Our Genoa door Underpinning all of the activity offers customers an alternative to I have described is Howdens the hugely popular Dordogne door, supply operation, which includes again ensuring that the builder can sourcing both of raw materials continue to serve all parts of the and of bought-in product, product market at all price points.
development, manufacturing, logistics, warehousing and Lamona is Howdens own appliance distribution on a daily basis to brand, and we have built it from every one of our 559 depots.
scratch over the last 6 years.
15 Chief Executives statement continued One factor that often gets means we can actually control overlooked is the importance of service, and service underpins Control of manufacturing lowest cost production.
At Howdens margin and will continue to do so.
means we can actually we can achieve this because we control service, and service both make and buy product in very CONTINUING INVESTMENT underpins margin large volumes.
When we put in a FOR FURTHER GROWTH purchase order, our suppliers benefit The actions we have taken and from efficiencies on their production the investments we have made lines, and we get service and supply.
over the past few years mean we are well prepared for the further Meanwhile, back at the depot, the growth of Howdens.
builder is not just paying for our product.
He is also paying for a We have supplier agreements, differentiated service and because design capability, manufacturing he knows he can finish a job on time efficiency, and systems capacity to Howdens will always be his lowest support a substantial increase in cost supplier.
volumes, and the flexibility to cope with greatly increased demand at Last year we completed peak trading periods.
the commissioning of new manufacturing equipment in our But I would also emphasise that in factories at Runcorn and Howden.
order to reach its full potential the We are now seeing real benefits business also has ongoing needs.
from our investment and from We must continue to invest in the improvements we have made product, property, processes throughout our supply chain.
The combination of more capacity, And some of the things that have greater accuracy, improved quality made Howdens so successful will and less waste is delivering require investment in things that reduced costs, while at the same could appear almost perverse time allowing us to plan more in many other businesses.
For efficiently, so that deliveries can be example, stock.
The kitchen is tailored precisely to the individual constantly sophisticating, so it is requirements of each depot, likely to have more things in it, and ensuring absolute availability of all fashions are changing more quickly, product at all times.
so we are facing more complexity.
But we know that builders rely on Continuing control of our own Howdens to keep everything always manufacturing and that of our in stock.
suppliers is at the heart of our promise to the builder, which is not So our job is not only to continue only of guaranteed availability but to invest in stock, but to manage it also of quality, range and price.
even better, and to deliver products that we know we can sell.
Not having And of course it goes even further stock means not delivering service.
Control of manufacturing 16 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 And as I said earlier, it is not only a development in order to make sure idea and values have been question of stock and that means we can manage and anticipate the tested through thick and thin.
the right stock but of the person requirements of operating on an 2014 has started well.
We are representing the stock.
Investment in our opening more accounts, planning people is also an investment in what As well as investing in the right stock more kitchens, converting more Howdens means the essence of and in guaranteed availability, we will leads, opening more depots and our brand people you can rely on continue to invest in more product, giving better local service to to make things work.
which will mean more depots, more more customers.
warehousing, more transport, and It is interesting to reflect that, far We are preparing for further further investment in managing from being old-fashioned, as good growth: and on the basis of our complexity at even greater scale in a as it ever was or, put another way, experience over the past few years, market with ever-changing and everas good as done has proven to we expect to be able to deliver an growing demands.
be a highly innovative concept that improving performance without has struck a chord, and in appealing In respect of warehousing and having to rely on a favourable to a deep-seated human value has distribution, we are already making economic environment.
created a large and attractive market arrangements to secure suitable that keeps on growing.
We are well placed for the capacity for the future beyond 2019, year ahead, although clearly when we will have outgrown our As you have seen, we are uncertainties remain out there, so current distribution centre.
National recommending a substantial we will continue to manage the distribution is important to us, increase in the dividend, which business carefully, and we will and as we confirmed last year it is reflects not only our continuing remain focused on the delivery of naturally weighted to South rather good performance and our stated a complete, thorough service, to than North, so we expect to stay in dividend policy but also the every individual builder, every the Northampton area.
As you would underlying principle of our entire day, no matter what.
expect with a major infrastructure business, which is that it should be project, this will involve serious worthwhile for all concerned.
Howdens is looking forward to thought and a lot of effort as well the future a future that has been What we mean by that is that as investment, and we will report in created because we have stuck there must be something in it for more detail on this subject when our to our strategy and values, and everyone: small builders, their plans are more advanced.
are vigilant about execution and customers, our suppliers, our continuity: a future in which we investors, our staff, and everyone THE IMPORTANCE go on doing what we do well, and who has a stake in Howdens.
OF INDIVIDUALS doing it even better, in order to Another area we will keep investing In fact, if we were to lose sight of this sustain a business of worth and in is our people.
Local service principle the business would simply value for all concerned.
delivered directly by individuals who not be allowed to continue.
It would Matthew Ingle take responsibility for their actions no longer have a licence to operate.
is a powerful source of competitive Chief Executive advantage, so we have no THE ROAD AHEAD intention of reducing headcount or 26 February 2014 So, in summary, we are reporting automating customer relationships an encouraging performance.
On the Howdens is growing because contrary: we plan to invest in people its strategy works.
The original throughout the business and in their 17
