Chief Executives review Strategic overview The Group made very good progress during the year as order to maintain our leading position and take advantage well as making a key strategic acquisition and seeing of industry market evolution require commitment of faster growth in unit shipment volumes than expected.
resources many years ahead of the potential revenue growth.
This year we have also signifi cantly invested in The acquisition of MIPS, completed on 7 February 2013, people and infrastructure to deliver the required scale signifi cantly strengthens Imaginations presence in the effectively and on a timely basis for our medium and substantial and growing processor and CPU IP central long-term development.
processing unit intellectual property segment, in both established and new markets.
MIPS is one of the small We completed the fi first phase in the planned number of CPU architectures directly supported by the redevelopment of our property facilities in Kings Langley.
The overall project is expected to complete in 2015 and will consist of three offi ce buildings to house approximately The Group is already well advanced in combining 1,100 employees and a dedicated datacentre.
The total Imaginations and MIPS complementary CPU technologies, project investment is expected to be around 65m of resources, expertise and market presence.
The Group which 35m has now been made.
aims to deliver a competitive and comprehensive proposition and create a new industry-leading force in Imagination operates in markets which continue to CPU development and licensing within the next fi five years.
develop, evolve and grow very rapidly, driven by the global demand for improving user experiences, multimedia The higher than expected unit volume shipments reported content, internet access and wireless connectivity.
Existing during the year demonstrate the strength and growing and new categories of consumer products and devices diversity of the Groups SoC system on chip design supporting these fundamental trends continue to drive wins.
These resulted in very strong growth in unit volumes much of the global electronics industry.
Our technologies continue to be in demand with the extensive design wins achieved Following a number of recent acquisitions and extensive representing a clear indication of generally broader and investment in R&D, Imagination is now focussed on four deeper engagements both across customers and the main areas multimedia, processor, communications and Groups IP families.
The Group is now in a position to provide a portfolio of solution-centric and highly synergistic A key element of our strategy is to invest for the long IP for a widening range of customers across an increasing term in our people, technologies and infrastructure, range of market segments.
ensuring that the business will continue to scale and grow strongly.
We have aspirations to grow well beyond The Groups multimedia capabilities now encompass our stated 1bn unit target creating signifi cant value for all graphics, video, vision and ray tracing for an ever widening our stakeholders.
Our plans and activities are designed market of consumer and industrial products.
with that as a key objective.
