Chief Executives Review Were focused on continuing the transition of the business and building momentum behind our quality growth agenda.
Alison Cooper Chief Executive Im pleased with the robust performance weve delivered in a We will continue adding to our track record of value creation challenging operating environment and Id like to thank our people over the long term and Im con dent that our transition focus for their tremendous support over the year.
Their relentless drive will strengthen our ability to capitalise on sales, cost and and commitment has ensured that we delivered earnings growth cash opportunities.
and made signi cant progress with our strategic transition.
Transition on Track Ive been particularly encouraged with the results were generating Were on track with our transition plans and made signi cant from our Growth Brands, which are outperforming market trends.
These are quality brands, delivering quality growth and well Weve realigned our footprint into Growth Markets and Returns continue to drive their development.
Markets and now manage markets based on the strategic role Our strategic transition remains on track and we will be building they play, rather than their geographic proximity.
This new on the considerable achievements weve made in recent years.
approach enables us to better target resource and is improving the clarity of our growth focus across markets.
Our initial transition focus revolved around consumers, putting consumers at the centre of everything we do to better understand Weve aligned our sales teams around the world to this new their evolving choices.
Our consumer insight work is essential market reclassi cation and now report our performance on this to our focus on driving quality growth.
It has supported the basis.
To aid understanding of this years performance weve also successes weve achieved with our key strategic brands over reported our results on the previous regional basis.
Details are on the last two years and continues to shape the development of page 100. our brands.
In optimising our portfolio were enhancing our ability to deliver In 2013, our transition focus has been on realigning our market quality growth from our most important brands and products.
footprint and optimising our portfolio and cost base.
Well be We now classify these brands as Growth Brands and Specialist enhancing momentum behind all three areas in 2014, which is Brands: together they account for more than 50 per cent of our an important year of transition thats focused on maximising our tobacco net revenue.
Each set of brands has its own distinct long-term growth potential.
strengths, which we leverage to build sustainable sales.
The rest of our portfolio consists of local and regional brands that ful l a Creating Shareholder Value variety of roles.
Some of these brands have the capacity to We created further value for our shareholders in 2013 against a continue adding to our revenue momentum: others will add backdrop of deteriorating industry volumes in the EU as a result greater value by being migrated into Growth Brands and we will of austerity measures, unemployment and illicit trade.
There has be progressing a number of brand migrations in the coming year.
also been industry weakness in some of our other main markets, notably Russia.
Portfolio optimisation drives product cost and complexity reductions which is a core element of our cost optimisation We responded swiftly to these external pressures and accelerated programme, along with the re nements were making to our a number of initiatives in line with our strategy to improve our operating model.
The programme was initiated in 2013 and second half performance.
This strengthened our delivery and delivered savings of 30 million in the year, which will build to resulted in our 2013 tobacco net revenue declining 1 per cent, savings of 300 million a year in 2018. adjusted operating pro t increasing by 1 per cent and growth in adjusted earnings per share of 6 per cent.
We also improved our return on invested capital to 15.1 per cent.
4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Growth Brands Specialist Brands Our key strategic and focus brands have been grouped Our Specialist Brands consist of a range of cigarette, ne together and are now managed as Growth Brands.
They are: cut tobacco, paper, cigar and smokeless tobacco brands.
Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, West, Fine, News, USA We are world leader in ne cut tobacco, premium cigars and Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and Parker & Simpson.
papers and hold a strong position in Scandinavian snus.
These are high quality brands with strong consumer appeal Specialist Brands have strong positions in their own and, with the exception of the recently launched Parker & categories and appeal to speci c consumer groups.
Simpson, established positions in key markets.
We have They are: Style, Gitanes cigarettes, Golden Virginia, successfully developed a number of these brands into total Drum, Route 66 ne cut tobacco, Cohiba, Montecristo, tobacco offerings, providing consumers with both cigarette Romeo Y Julieta premium cigars, Backwoods cigars, and ne cut tobacco options.
Skruf snus and Rizla papers.
Were managing these brands to collectively drive quality These brands generate strong returns and we measure volume, share and revenue growth over the long term.
their performance against revenue metrics.
We measure the performance of our Growth Brands against volume, share and revenue metrics.
Growth Markets Returns Markets Growth Markets are characterised by large pro t and or In Returns Markets we have relatively large shares, mostly volume pools.
We tend to have shares below 15 per cent and above 15 per cent.
Our objective is to maximise pro t, see considerable opportunities for share and pro t growth whilst actively managing our market share.
Our main Returns Markets include the UK, Germany, and Our main Growth Markets include the USA and selected other markets in the EU, Australia, Eastern Europe and Africa.
markets in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
We measure the performance of our Returns Markets against We measure the performance of our Growth Markets share and revenue metrics and our quality of growth by the against share, volume and revenue metrics and our quality progress our Growth and Specialist Brands are making.
of growth by the progress our Growth and Specialist Brands are making.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 5 Chief Executives Review We evaluate the success of our performance by measuring results Good Performance in Growth Markets against a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs and other Economic pressures persist in a number of Growth Markets but metrics.
On pages 8 and 9 of this report you can see how we market volumes have been resilient in the year, with the exception have evolved our business measures in line with our strategy.
of Russia which has been impacted by adverse regulatory and excise changes.
Growth Brands Outperforming Our robust performance was re ected in a number of good We made good progress in a broad spread of markets results from our Growth Brands which outperformed the market.
including Taiwan, Turkey, Italy, Greece, Scandinavia, Cambodia Excluding China, volumes declined just 2 per cent compared to and Kazakhstan.
market declines of 4 per cent.
The USA and Russia have posed challenges, which were Overall we increased the market share of our Growth Brands and addressing to improve our performance.
The USA is a highly grew revenues by 2 per cent, which further re ects the quality of attractive market where were strengthening our position by growth were generating.
focusing on pricing and customer engagement initiatives to build our presence in key states.
In Russia a number of portfolio The development of our Growth Brands is being supported by initiatives are strengthening our share in the high price and value a number of portfolio initiatives that are focused on building our segments.
In both markets we considerably improved our results presence in high growth segments such as queen size, slims in the second half of the year.
Our share position in Growth Markets was down slightly at JPS was our star performing brand, making volume gains in many 5.8 per cent and we grew net revenue by 2 per cent and markets including several in the EU against a backdrop of weak adjusted operating pro t by 7 per cent.
This highlights the total tobacco strength of our share was up.
JPS and its growing popularity with value-seeking consumers.
Resilient Results in Returns Markets Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes delivered some good results in We divide our Returns Markets into Returns Markets South and a broad spread of markets, including Russia, Turkey, Greece, Returns Markets North in order to better manage these signi cant Germany and Algeria.
West is generating good growth in Asia and Im pleased with the Economic conditions are challenging in many Returns Markets, initial results from our new value international brand Parker & which have suffered market volume declines as a result of Simpson, which was launched in a number of markets during austerity measures, rising unemployment and increasing levels the year.
Were driving the performance of USA Gold to strengthen results In Returns Markets North we achieved strong results in in the USA and in Vietnam we continue to build quality volume Germany, the UK and Australia which mitigated the impact of with Bastos.
We further added to our volume, share and revenue weakness in Morocco, France and Spain in Returns Markets development through our other Growth Brands, Lambert & Butler, South.
The trading environment has been particularly dif cult Fine and News.
in Spain and as a result we have taken a further non-cash Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 317 billion, impairment charge, which is explained more fully on page 26. compared to 341 billion last year.
Growth Brands accounted for Were focused on strengthening our delivery in all three of these 41 per cent of total volumes, an increase of 200 basis points, important markets.
and 39 per cent of our tobacco net revenue, an increase of Well also be building on a number of good portfolio gains in other 100 basis points.
territories in Returns Markets South including Portugal, Hungary, Specialist Brands Increasing Revenues Austria, Algeria and Senegal.
Our Specialist Brands provide opportunities for growth across the Our share across our Returns Markets was 27.3 per cent tobacco spectrum.
compared to 27.7 per cent last year, impacted by signi cant In cigarette, Style is performing well in Russia and Ukraine, and market volumes declines in large markets, such as the UK Gitanes is delivering strong growth in Iraq.
In ne cut tobacco and and Spain, where our share is higher than the Returns papers, contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Markets average.
Rizla in a number of markets continued to underpin our world We grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 6 per cent leadership in these categories.
and adjusted operating pro t declined by only 1 per cent, a Our premium cigars, led by Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y robust result given the pressures in Returns Markets South.
Julieta, performed particularly well in Growth Markets and our Growth Brands generated 40 per cent of tobacco net revenue cigar brand Backwoods generated signi cant revenue growth.
in Returns Markets, up by 200 basis points.
Further gains from Skruf were behind another successful year Fontem Ventures for our dynamic snus business.
Whilst strengthening the sustainability of our core tobacco These performances contributed to a 5 per cent increase in business, were also pursuing opportunities for growth in other Specialist Brands net revenue, with these brands accounting areas through our new standalone subsidiary, Fontem Ventures.
for 12 per cent of our tobacco net revenue.
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Fontem Ventures has initially been focused on our entry into Strengthening Senior Management the fast growing e-vapour sector and will be launching its own In recent months I was delighted to welcome two new members products in 2014.
Fontem Ventures has also acquired further to the executive team: Peter Corijn as Group Marketing Director e-vapour assets and expertise from Dragonite International, and Oliver Tant as Finance Director.
a company founded by one of the pioneers of e-cigarette Peter came from Procter & Gamble, where he managed a wide technologies, which has further enhanced our sector potential.
range of consumer goods in mature and emerging markets: Logistics Oliver joined us from KPMG, where his industry focus included Our logistics business is one of the largest of its kind in Europe, consumer and industrial markets, retail and insurance.
They both with a unique network that is dif cult to replicate.
The business have a wealth of international experience and are proving to be focuses on providing excellent service to tobacco and nongreat additions to the business.
tobacco customers, making around 40 million deliveries every Oliver takes over from Bob Dyrbus on 5 November: Bob is retiring year, and has consistently delivered a robust performance in at the end of 2013 and Id like to add my thanks for the huge challenging economic conditions.
contribution hes made to our success over the years.
Against a backdrop of weak industry tobacco volumes, Responsibility and People distribution fees declined by 5 per cent to 850 million and Managing our business responsibly is critical for sustainable value adjusted operating pro t was down by 2 per cent to 176 million.
creation and we continue to focus on improving our performance Excluding the impact of the timing of a VAT increase in Italy, in the key areas set out in our responsibility framework outlined in adjusted operating pro t increased by 2 per cent.
This is a pleasing result given the environment and one that Our unique values provide everyone at Imperial with a common re ects the expertise of the logistics management team and bond driving responsible behaviour and instilling a sense of their diligent focus on generating new growth opportunities pride in what we do.
Our business thrives on the energy of our and managing costs.
people and their positive mindset reinforces my con dence in Effective Cost and Cash Management our ability to continue improving performance and achieving our Effective cost and cash management supports our sales transition objectives.
growth strategy and is a key driver for maximising returns on 2014 Priorities invested capital.
Transitioning the business and building momentum behind our We announced a five-year cost optimisation programme at quality growth agenda are my priorities for the coming year.
the beginning of the year aligned with our strategic transition Further embedding our new footprint structure and optimising agenda and will achieve savings of 300 million per annum from our portfolio will strengthen our ability to capitalise on September 2018.
30 million was realised in 2013 and were growth opportunities.
making good progress on key cost initiatives for the current Were making excellent progress in realigning our cost base financial year.
These include further optimising product costs, and well be driving further cost initiatives to strengthen our re ning our operating model, driving operational ef ciencies and sustainability and release funds to increase investment behind realising global procurement bene ts.
Our cost programme is complemented by our focus on reducing Our stock optimisation programme, whereby we will be reducing our days of stock in trade to improve our supply ef ciency, and our days of stock in trade, will improve our supply effectiveness the effectiveness of our portfolio, innovation, pricing and trade and enable us to maximise the impact of our sales growth engagement initiatives.
Our focus on cash generation and effective management of our Our actions in 2013 and over the coming year will result in working capital increased cash conversion to 86 per cent, from stronger brands, a stronger footprint and a stronger platform 71 per cent last year.
Excluding the impact of restructuring related for driving quality growth and quality returns to shareholders in cash out ows, cash conversion was 93 per cent.
Maximising Returns We delivered another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent, in line with our commitment to grow dividends ahead of adjusted earnings by a minimum of 10 per cent a year over the medium term.
We further enhanced returns to shareholders through our share buyback programme, spending 500 million to acquire Alison Cooper 21.3 million shares.
Chief Executive Maximising returns to shareholders drives everything we do and since 2010 weve more than doubled annual cash returns to shareholders to 1.6 billion by growing dividends and through share buybacks.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 7
