CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Premium growth delivering premium returns for our shareholders Inchcape is a leading global ANDR LACROIX, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE premium automotive group, operating in 26 countries worldwide both as a Distributor and as a scale Retailer.
I am delighted to report another year of strong performance for the Group.
We achieved robust growth across each of the categories in which we operate, continuing a long term trend of strong performance, not just in the context of the global economic challenges but also in comparison with our competitors across the world.
In the last four years, we have delivered consistent profit growth and attractive returns for our shareholders, with an earnings per share EPS compound annual growth rate of 12.6%, total shareholder return TSR of 125% and a return on capital employed ROCE of 22%.
Our unique approach is based on a global geographic footprint focused on high margin, high growth markets, a diversified set of revenue streams with an emphasis on growing sustainable high margin aftersales activities, and a competitive advantage based on operational excellence and delivering outstanding customer service.
At the heart of our business lies our close, long term partnerships with six premium and luxury automotive manufacturer groups, from which we derive c. 90% of our gross profit: BMW MINI Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, Mercedes-Benz, Subaru, Toyota Lexus and Volkswagen Audi Porsche.
These premium and luxury brands are growing ahead of the global automotive market as a whole, due to their appeal to the burgeoning middle classes in the emerging markets.
Their R&D strength allows them to invest ahead of their competition in fuel-efficient automotive technology that appeals to customers in the more developed markets.
Importantly, the pricing power of these brands helps us to secure and grow our margins, which enables us to achieve such strong returns.
20 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We believe that our market leading sustainable revenue streams across all Our defensive categories of Used vehicle our categories, particularly in our high sales and aftersales performance sales, Aftersales servicing and Parts now in premium and luxury segments, margin Aftersales servicing and Parts collectively account for 60% of our gross business.
Our scale advantage in the supported by our premium Customer profit.
This is excellent progress for the st 1 strategy and premium operations, Distribution VIR markets is driving superior Group: not only is the trend towards returns for our shareholders.
while seizing attractive consolidation substantial growth in the global Car opportunities, is the key to delivering Parc driving true sustainability for these In the worlds larger car markets, like the sustainable growth for our shareholders.
business streams the Car Parc is over UK, Russia and China, our six core brand 10 times the size of the New car market partners run their own distribution and PREMIUM MARKETS but margins in this category are higher too.
Here, we have Three quarters of our profits are derived selectively invested in large-scale premium Our premium strategy is supported from the fast growing markets of Asia retail facilities and provide our OEM by our strong operational discipline, Pacific and the Emerging Markets.
partners with the highest quality brand a balanced focus between cash and Indeed, we are highly selective about representation and deliver exceptional commercial priorities that we summarise the markets where we choose to operate standards in customer care.
under our Top Five Priorities: maintaining and for us the worlds most attractive tight control over margins, working capital markets are not necessarily the largest.
PREMIUM STRATEGY and capital expenditure, while growing The stand-alone New car markets in, for Inchcape has a twin-track strengthen the business through increased market st example, Hong Kong, Singapore, Guam, and expand Customer 1 growth strategy.
Macau, Peru and Ethiopia are small in a Our key focus is on strengthening Through the strong brand partner global context but this is a great strength st our business through organic growth, relationships our Customer 1 strategy for Inchcape as we have established maximising the return on our existing creates, we gain access to expansion competitive positions with high returns.
assets through a differentiated customer opportunities in high margin, high growth Our Distribution and VIR operations are experience to increase market share in areas of the world which we can pursue focused in those small to medium sized both vehicle sales and aftersales.
thanks to the strength of our balance markets, where our scale position, superior sheet, as evidenced in 2013 when we In fact, no matter where we operate, operating processes, marketing and sales completed the acquisition of the Trivett st it is our unique Customer 1 strategy expertise and the quality of our people Automotive group, Australias largest that prevails, providing a premium provide a significant local advantage premium automotive retailer.
customer experience for the worlds to our brand partners in terms of brand best car brands.
This is what drives This premium growth strategy, in stewardship, advertising and promotional our competitive advantage: creating premium markets, with premium capability, aftersales expertise, network high levels of customer satisfaction, that brands, is enabling us to deliver a management and customer experience.
we measure consistently through our premium financial performance.
During 2013, our Distribution and VIR Inchcape Advantage programme, and operations generated 79% of our leveraging this to sustain and protect our PREMIUM OPERATIONS Group trading profits and 90% of the margins.
Quite simply, we set standards Our operational approach is to profits from our Distribution and VIR in markets across the world which the appoint strong and experienced local activities come from Australasia, North local competition cannot match.
management teams and support them Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa with industry best practice, market-leading A key strategic component of our strong and South America.
business model is the diversity of our Our long lasting relationships with our Quite simply, this means we bring to local five income streams, which we classify brand partners combined with the markets a level of operational resource into growth and defensive categories.
superior quality of our operations have and global expertise that enables us to Our main growth category is New vehicle given us a scale advantage in these outperform the competition.
sales, which historically has been at the markets.
In 12 of our markets, we achieved core of Inchcapes business and, when a top three market share position for our combined with our Vehicle Finance and brand partners in 2013.
Not only does this Insurance products, represents around deliver significant opportunities for New 40% of Group gross profit.
car sales, it also provides strong and www.
com 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED To maximise this advantage, we have Customer service: Our unique Rewarding performance: Our developed a proprietary approach to Inchcape Advantage programme, people thrive in a culture which management that ensures operational which underpins our commitment recognises individual contributions excellence in every market.
This is made to delivering consistently superior to our collective performance.
This up of 12 unique operational processes: customer service in every outlet, means that recognition and acclaim continues to drive sustainable are as important as compensation Market intelligence and forecasting: aftersales retention and market in maintaining an engaged workforce Our understanding and knowledge share growth everywhere we operate.
made up of committed, energetic of the markets where we operate has and enthusiastic people.
improved over the years based on Performance management: A key powerful retail indicators and leading element of Inchcapes way of working The application of these strong technology, which enable us to make is the careful balance between operational processes differentiates us accurate sales forecasts and to spot strong central governance and local both within the markets where we operate trends even before they emerge management, who are empowered and in the eyes of the manufacturers we providing strong competitive advantage to make decisions based on their work with: our brand partners benefit from in good economic times and bad.
This means our consistent market share and customer Inchcape can respond rapidly and service performance which strengthen Supply and working capital effectively at every level to changing our brand relationships giving us access management: We accurately market conditions.
synchronise supply with demand thanks to the exceptional integration Capex and investment: The strength To see how a number of these key of our management processes, our of the Groups balance sheet and processes work in practice, delivering market measures and our forecasting.
our brand relationships give us access value to Inchcape, our brand partners, Not only does this approach enable us to investment opportunities.
We follow our customers and our shareholders, to control costs, it also ensures we can a highly disciplined and selective see the case study on page 23 about satisfy our customers more easily than approach to investment that targets our work for BMW in Chile.
high growth and high margin markets.
PREMIUM GROWTH Marketing and innovation: Our Global IT infrastructure: Proprietary PREMIUM RETURNS in-depth knowledge of our markets and Distribution, VIR and Retail information Our consistent growth in the premium our OEM partners enables us to bring technology enhances our productivity and luxury segment has delivered unparalleled insight and understanding across the Group.
Our global iPower premium returns for our shareholders.
to positioning and promoting brands programme is designed to reduce We believe that our performance track and models.
Our StarPlus model complexity and to provide our record is based on five competitive processes provide marketing excellence businesses with better management advantages: our focus on premium and in our 26 markets.
This not only drives information on a timely basis.
luxury brands that continue to outperform growth in revenues and market share, Risk management: Within our the market: a rising Car Parc that feeds it also further strengthens the equity operationally decentralised organisation, our high margin Aftersales business: our and image of our brands.
st the Groups risk appetite is dictated by differentiated Customer 1 strategy which Dealer network development: In the Board while day-to-day risk oversight underpins strong pricing power: a unique our distribution markets, our route to is the responsibility of the Group iPOM set of 12 operational disciplines creating market is largely managed by third Inchcape Peace of Mind Committee.
local competitive advantage: and an party dealers and our network Oversight of risk management, however, ability to leverage attractive consolidation development teams provide expertise remains in the hands of the most senior opportunities in high growth high margin in network expansion, retail standards, management in our local markets.
All these growth drivers remain operational training and IT support relevant into the future.
Investing in people: The key to which enables us to deliver world class outperforming our competition in representation for our brands.
every market is to ensure that we have World class retail standards: winning people in winning teams.
Thats We continually invest in the worlds why Inchcape is focused, both centrally most advanced retail technologies, and locally, on ensuring that we have in in infrastructure and in our people to place the right people, the right learning ensure that all customers in every market opportunities, the right reward systems have an outstanding experience every and the right culture.
time they interact with us.
22 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CASE STUDY: INCHCAPE BMW CHILE A PREMIUM APPROACH TO OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Inchcape commenced its distribution We continue to track and understand scope to segment by vehicle type, we operations for BMW in Chile, a country sales volumes throughout the year, with ensure that all customers receive the with tremendous opportunities, in 1994. updated monthly forecasts based on very best and most relevant experience.
our daily traffic analysis and other Chile has a population of 17.4 million, leading indicators: this is an area where MARKETING AND INNOVATION making it one of the largest in which Underpinned by Inchcapes Group-wide we are particularly advanced, enabling Inchcape operates.
There are six million us to anticipate and plan for changes StarPlus marketing model, which inhabitants in the capital, Santiago, a draws upon our deep understanding that will inevitably take place during a truly global city that accounts for a third years trading.
of the brands we represent around the of the countrys entire population.
In world and the local markets where we addition, Chile has delivered a four year WORLD CLASS RETAIL STANDARDS represent them, our team created a real compound annual GDP growth rate Our focus on providing customers with campaign to leverage the completion of 5.3% between 2009 and 2012. the highest levels of service is enabling of the new Santiago site to position BMW Today, BMW stands at the head of Chiles growth for our premium and luxury in the most effective and appropriate luxury automotive segment, with 37% brands in markets across the world.
In manner for the Chilean market.
market share in 2013 up from 27% just our new flagship retail and service centre From our concept Experience the four years ago.
for BMW in Santiago, we have taken the future Bienvenidos al Futuro, we customer experience to new heights.
In Below, we highlight just three areas in which delivered a highly impactful campaign terms of the facility itself, the landmark our unique approach to operational that emphasises BMWs outstanding building is a dramatic premium excellence, developed over many years brand quality, product range, technology statement of sustainability, and the and involving a number of bespoke and design, complemented by our own architecture provides a perfect showcase processes, is driving our success in Chile comprehensive customer service offering.
for our brand partners vehicles.
To this, and indeed all of our Distribution markets.
In reflecting BMWs brand characteristics, our people bring a dedicated knowledge a focus on retail innovation was of of the brand and a passion for delivering MARKET INTELLIGENCE fundamental importance and our team highly individual customer care.
AND FORECASTING sought to develop true innovation in A key aspect of our approach is in-depth We have consolidated five facilities into customer service: a three year warranty market planning and analysis, based one, doubling our overall Aftersales and free maintenance package was around a tried and tested, best-practice capacity and enhancing the overall developed alongside ServiceConnect, strategic and operational methodology ambience and product display with benefits including online booking that works successfully wherever we capabilities.
We have designed a and tracking and a remote fault apply it across the world.
Our detailed number of customer journeys through diagnosis and response tool.
segmentation analysis enables us to the centre depending on customer type, accurately determine the annual volume reflecting the very real differences that forecast and, in turn, the understanding exist in aspiration and expectation this brings allows us to select the between, for example, BMW M-Sport appropriate model mix.
com 23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Over the next five years, annual New We have the right operational discipline, Our premium growth strategy combined with a strong track record of delivering with our strong cash and cost discipline car sales are set to grow globally by 21%.
Even more important for the leading market share.
is the right one for Inchcape and for our shareholders and I am confident we can sustainability of our earnings, the We deliver premium returns with a global Car Parc is forecast to increase look forward to a long term performance balanced mix of growth and defensive that continues our record of generating substantially, by 21% over the same period, drivers and a highly disciplined approach to 1,165 billion vehicles.
Consequently we sustainable premium growth and to cost and cash management.
see significant growth opportunities And we have a strong balance sheet, ahead in all those categories where we which together with our outstanding operate New and Used premium car manufacturer partnerships clearly sales, Finance and Insurance products, positions us strongly to take advantage Aftersales servicing and Spare parts.
of the exciting premium consolidation The geographic spread of our markets opportunities in Asia Pacific and the gives us a well-balanced approach to Emerging Markets, as evidenced by growth.
Our 21 Asia Pacific and Emerging ANDR LACROIX, our recent acquisition of the Trivett Markets businesses delivered 56% of our GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Automotive group.
revenue and 73% of our trading profit in Trivetts fit with Inchcape is excellent: 2013, thanks to the 6.1% average trading the business has 22 retail centres in profit margin they deliver.
Our operations and around Sydney, Australias largest in the UK and Europe, meanwhile, metropolitan area for premium brands, delivered 44% of our revenue and 27% and two in Melbourne.
This scale enables of our trading profit.
Trivett to make a substantial contribution With both New vehicle sales and the Car to Inchcape Australasia itself a Parc set to deliver substantial growth over considerable business with 21 owned the next five years, these markets provide and managed retail centres and 101 the balance and stability needed to give independently owned franchised Subaru us a solid, sustainable platform for centres throughout Australasia.
Just as continued growth across the Group.
important, however, is Trivetts portfolio In summary, Inchcapes dedicated focus of premium brands, including BMW, on premium growth is delivering premium Jaguar, Land Rover, Volvo and Honda, returns for our shareholders: as well as super luxury brands Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Aston Martin and McLaren.
We have a scale presence in the right premium markets, where we expect robust, In Trivetts first year as part of Inchcape, the business has already proved itself as a broad based growth across all categories.
powerful source of value for our Australian We have a highly attractive portfolio of operation, with a trading profit of 9.9m, premium and luxury brands, with which we a trading margin of 3.3% and a ROCE of have deep and long-standing relationships.
The prospects are promising We have a premium strategy driven as Trivett integrates completely into our by a strong focus on superior customer global organisation, enabling us to service, enabling us to enjoy strong leverage significant commercial synergies.
pricing power in our markets and market share growth in premium and luxury Vehicle sales and in Aftersales.
24 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
