STRATEGIC REPORT Group Chief Executives Review I was delighted to take over as Group Chief Executive of Informa at the start of this year.
As the reported figures highlight, the Group delivered a solid earnings and cash performance last year.
This has led the Board to pay a total dividend for the year of 18.90p.
Succeeding such a long-standing Chief Executive is a privilege and comes with attendant responsibilities.
The privilege lies in being given the opportunity to work with the people and the businesses that make Informa so unique, all of which operate in the Knowledge and Information Economy.
The responsibilities are to transition the business, the culture and the operating model post such long-term leadership.
It is still early days but my initial sense is that there are potential opportunities across the Groups businesses from simplifying operating structures, leveraging our scale more effectively and ensuring the more intensive use of technology, thereby delivering greater operational fitness.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE 18 I IN NF FO OR RM MA P A PL LC C 18 A an nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 31 D 1 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 13 3 This gives us plenty to work on through In 2013, the most significant internal Capital allocation 2014.
The robust platform that Academic investment project was the launch of We remained active on the corporate front Publishing provides and the strength Cogent OA, within Academic Publishing, through the year, investing in a number of Global Events, combined with a a new open access publishing brand.
of acquisitions across all our divisions.
more stable macro backdrop, give us Under the guidance of a newly formed The largest investments were in the EBI confidence we can deliver a positive management team, this will be the focal pharmaceutical information business, the outcome in the year.
point for our open access activity in the stake we acquired in the exhibition Group, future, with a range of journals scheduled Baiwen, in China and the purchase of EBD My initial sense is there are two overfor launch from 2014.
Group, the conference partnering business.
arching challenges for the Group.
The first is the shift in technology happening across Within Global Events, we launched or We were also pro-active in disposing of our markets and amongst our customers, geo-cloned 16 large events in the year in 12 assets.
The largest of these was the sale of and the ongoing implications of that for all different countries, including The Delicious our five Corporate Training businesses to our products and businesses.
Secondly, and Food Show in Canada and Anti-Aging Providence Equity Partners in July, with a more specifically, is returning the Business Moscow.
This is a similar run-rate to recent closing date of 30 September 2013.
The full Intelligence division to growth after two years and remains a core component of the consideration for these assets is USD 150m years of organic revenue decline.
organic growth strategy in this business.
and we received USD 100m in cash on completion, with the remaining USD 50m Within Business Intelligence, there BUSINESS REVIEW structured under a vendor loan agreement.
were several platform upgrades through As the worlds economy moves from a 2013, notably the relaunch of the Verdict We also exited our small conference manufacturing bias towards service and Knowledge Centre.
We also continued businesses in Spain, Portugal and Italy, knowledge-based industries, Informa to invest behind our Chinese healthcare which were sub-scale, very focused on should be well placed.
This is a long-term their respective domestic markets and with lies in filtering, understanding and investment and while progress has been a little scope for leverage on an international interpreting information.
Extracting little slower than anticipated, we should see scale and or into large events.
trends, building forecasts and drawing the beginning of the commercialisation of conclusions.
Market intelligence and these valuable assets by the end of 2014. data-backed decision making is the new International expansion currency of competitive advantage.
We continue to look for opportunities to These qualities underpin our businesses, expand our reach across international giving us confidence in the long-term markets and in 2013 we generated over potential to build value.
Digital subscription 100,000 of revenue in nearly a 100 revenues directly embedded into the different countries.
The strongest growth knowledge supply chain should, in our by region was recorded in the Middle East.
Similarly, platforms This reflects the high quality of our assets which bring communities together, driving in the region, particularly on the exhibition interaction and engagement outside of side, but also a healthy recovery in the the digital ecosystem should become macro environment in Dubai.
Elsewhere, we also achieved good New product development underlying growth in China, Russia and A significant challenge for the Group is Turkey.
In aggregate, emerging markets the pace of technological change and its represented 19% of Group revenue in impact on our markets.
Innovation can 2013, in line with the previous year, with lead to rapid shifts in distribution and underlying growth in these regions consumption, customer demands and balanced by recent acquisitions in the competitive landscape.
This is an developed markets such as Canada, the opportunity as well as a threat but it means US and Europe.
This figure also does not we have to stay alert to such changes and include any contribution yet from the proactively invest behind our own products recent investment in Baiwen in China.
to protect market positions and seize new growth opportunities.
For Informa, 2014 will be a year of measured change, operational focus and building a platform for the future growth of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Group Chief Executives Review continued DIVISIONAL REVIEW Group revenue in the year to 31 December 2013 was up 2.0% on a reported basis to 1,132.4m.
This included the positive contribution from a number of acquisitions including the full year benefit of MMPI Canada and Zephyr Associates and an initial contribution from EBD Group, balanced by several disposals Robbins Gioia in 2012 and the European conferences businesses in 2013.
The five Corporate Training businesses sold are disclosed separately, under Discontinued Operations.
For the presentation of the 2013 results, the Group has changed the names of its three divisions, which are now titled Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence and Global Events.
The businesses comprising the three divisions were not altered by the change in names.
Group revenue was split fairly evenly across our three divisions, with Global Events the largest contributor at 37%, Academic Publishing at 32% and Business Intelligence at 31%.
Academic Publishing 2013 2012 Actual Organic m m % % Revenue 367.1 340.3 7.9 5.3 Adjusted Operating Profit 130.9 126.1 3.8 3.1 Adjusted Operating Margin % 35.7 37.1 The Academic Publishing division continued to win contracts to publish materials.
This was a new initiative, produces books and journals for university society journals, which now account for leveraging its broader digital expertise into libraries and the wider academic market.
In an important portion of our portfolio, by a new product category and its success 2013, Academic Publishing accounted for volume.
We also secured a steady flow of has encouraged the team to develop a 32% of continuing Group revenue and 39% small archive deals, although none of the pipeline of potential future products.
of continuing adjusted operating profit.
Our books business again performed It proved to be another encouraging We made substantial progress in well in 2013, boosted by a very strong year for Academic Publishing, with a developing our open access offering in end to the year.
This was most marked particularly strong fourth quarter pushing 2013, as we pushed forward with the launch in the US but, encouragingly, Europe its financial performance comfortably of a bespoke publishing brand, Cogent also saw pockets of good recovery after ahead of internal projections.
Bryan Vickery, former COO of one of a tough few years.
India was unable to the divisional margin was a little lower the largest open access publishers in the maintain its expected growth, with the than the previous year, reflecting mix and world, joined to head up this new initiative, sharp depreciation in the rupee dragging investment.
We also made good strategic adding valuable expertise.
Cogents initial regional revenue lower.
progress, including a significant advance in plan is to launch 15 broad, subject-based We saw a marked acceleration in the shift our open access capabilities, expansion of and interconnected open access journals in from print to digital in 2013, with ebooks our digital product offering and a number areas such as behavioural science, biology accounting for 20% of book revenue, of small, accretive acquisitions.
The first of these have up from 16% in 2012.
While much of the now launched and already begun receiving Our journal business performed well, ebook growth is likely to be substitutional, submissions from authors.
underpinned by further growth in the flexibility of digital formats and demand for our content and publishing We successfully launched the South global distribution channels presents expertise.
Taylor & Francis Online saw an Asian Culture and History Archive, a opportunities for product innovation and increase in usage of over 30% through unique online archive of local history, more efficient monetisation of the long the year, providing valuable currency encompassing more than five million tail of our backlist.
We pages of valuable research and teaching Business Intelligence 2013 2012 Actual Organic m m % % Revenue 350.6 356.6 1.7 3.9 Adjusted Operating Profit 109.1 120.7 9.6 12.8 Adjusted Operating Margin % 31.1 33.8 INFORMA PLC 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 The Business Intelligence division IBI, where structural shifts in the has been well received by its customer delivers high value content in a number market have led to substantial cost base.
It has allowed us to streamline the of industry verticals including the rationalisation amongst our customer editorial process and focus our resources healthcare, pharmaceutical, financial base.
This makes subscription on enhancing the digital product offering.
services, maritime, commodities, telecoms, negotiations protracted, demands often Informa Financial Information IFI insurance and legal sectors.
In 2013, unreasonable and visibility limited.
had a mixed year, with wide variance Business Intelligence accounted for 31% However, despite this we have seen some in the performance of the different of continuing Group revenue and 33% of areas of good progress.
Citelines portfolio businesses within its portfolio.
On the continuing adjusted operating profit.
of real-time clinical trial and pipeline positive, EPFR, a market fund flow and Business Intelligence reported lower information services delivered another asset allocation data service, continued revenue and profit in 2013.
While some strong performance in 2013, despite the to perform well, delivering strong double of this decline reflects the impact of the tough backdrop.
This gives us belief that digit revenue growth, as recognition of medical books transfer to Academic where we can combine strong brands with the value of its data in driving investment Publishing and the full year drag of the must-have data and information direct into returns steadily increased.
product pruning exercise in 2012, the customer workflow, there remain good On the flipside, one of the larger underlying performance was still a little growth opportunities, irrespective of the businesses in the IFI portfolio, Informa behind expectations.
This was due to weak challenging budgetary climate.
Global Markets IGM, continued to renewals of high margin subscriptions After almost 300 years in circulation, experience challenging market conditions, and lower revenue than anticipated from Lloyds List published its final, daily and its revenue was down year-on-year.
consulting and one-off reports, reflected print edition on 20 December.
This IGM provides fixed income and currency in the year-on-year margin decline.
was combined with a commemorative information, directly and via third party A sizeable proportion of this shortfall supplement and proved to be a bumper desktop terminals.
Its performance is, stemmed from our product portfolio issue, which was well supported by therefore, closely correlated to investment in the pharmaceutical sector within advertisers.
Lloyds List is now a digitalbanking headcount trends, which remained Informa Business Information only subscription product, something that negative through the year.
Global Events 2013 2012 Actual Organic m m % % Revenue 414.7 413.7 0.2 3.0 Adjusted Operating Profit 95.5 83.7 14.1 12.6 Adjusted Operating Margin % 23.0 20.2 The Global Events division incorporates metres, ran successfully in April, growing encouraged us to allocate more capital our face-to-face media businesses, its revenues healthily on the previous year.
to this area in 2013, acquiring a number across a range of formats including of assets.
These included FanExpo in The strong growth of our large events exhibitions, conferences, awards and Canada, a successful portfolio of consumer was balanced by the performance of public training courses.
While its existing portfolio our small conference businesses, which Events accounted for 37% of continuing offers further attractive growth potential, overall reported a decline year-onGroup revenues and 28% of continuing we also see good scope to leverage the year.
This partly reflected the disposal adjusted operating profit.
concept through geo-cloning into new of our businesses in Spain, Italy and markets around the world.
The Global Events division performed Portugal in the first half of the year, and well in 2013, with organic revenue partly a further pro-active reduction More recently, we announced the growth of 3% and profit growth of over in the volume of events run by some acquisition of a majority stake in Baiwen, 12%.
These headline numbers mask a teams, largely within other European the owner and operator of China stronger performance from our higher territories.
These volume cuts reflected Beauty Expo CBE.
CBE is the largest margin large events, which in aggregate weak local demand but also a shift in beauty trade event in mainland China, delivered double-digit organic growth emphasis to focus on those events that comprising three co-located exhibitions and accounted for more than 60% have the scope to be repeated, garner that take place annually in Shanghai of divisional revenue.
Key highlights international interest and or have the in May: Cosmetics China, Cosmetech th included Arab Health, Middle East potential to grow into a large event and Beauty Shanghai.
In 2013, the 18 Electricity, Cityscape Global and the through time.
edition of CBE attracted around 1,700 Anti-Aging Medicine World Congress.
exhibitors from 22 countries and some Much of the revenue lost on small We now have over 275 large events in 250,000 visitors across a floor space of conferences in the year had minimal the portfolio.
This was an margin attached, hence, the impact on important strategic move for Informa, We also successfully tendered for the profit was relatively low, as evidenced by giving us a local operational presence in Agrishow contract in Brazil early in the strong growth in divisional profit.
the Chinese exhibition market and further the year, and the event, which covers strengthening our position in the global The attractions of the exhibition model exhibition space of over 400,000 square beauty and aesthetics market.
and positive underlying market dynamics Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Group Chief Executives Review continued TRADING OUTLOOK Academic Publishing remains a resilient Returning the Business Intelligence performer and we expect another good division to growth is a major objective for A key objective for 2014 is to manage performance in 2014.
Its core market Group management.
Within the business the transition in leadership from the backdrop is stable and demand for there are strong assets, but these are long standing, former Chief Executive our content remains strong.
We see balanced by other areas where revenues as smoothly and effectively as possible.
opportunities to build our presence further are under pressure.
There is no doubt that Internal controls must remain firm, staff in overseas markets and we will continue trends in some of our core end-markets motivated and operational focus intact.
to invest behind this and other product like pharmaceutical and financial services Externally, we must stay engaged and initiatives, such as Cogent OA.
The latter remain challenging, with cost efficiency consistent with our customer base is now operational and should start to programmes common across the customer and continue to seize growth and generate revenue towards the end of 2014. base.
But as we better understand how value opportunities.
technology is impacting the landscape, we The Global Events division continues to We should gain some support from have the opportunity to further improve see strong growth dynamics across its the wider economy, which appears our commercial competitiveness.
large events portfolio, and we have had more stable than it has been for five another good start to the year with our Our Group balance sheet is healthy and years, with several core markets such big exhibitions in the Middle East.
We will we remain highly cash generative.
We as North America and the UK seemingly continue to invest behind this growth where will continue to look for both organic and on a gradual recovery path.
Encouragingly, appropriate, through organic launches, inorganic investment opportunities that core drivers behind this recovery are the geo-cloning and targeted acquisitions.
make strategic sense and offer attractive knowledge-based industries in which we long-term returns, and so will be measured operate, underlining our belief in the The major non-annual exhibitions in 2014, and rational in allocating capital as long-term growth opportunities within Formobile a Brazilian biennial and IPEX effectively as possible.
As ever, we will also our markets.
a UK quadrennial, are not anticipated to ensure the large number of assets we have be as material as previous editions, due to Across the Groups various businesses, acquired in recent years are fully integrated World Cup disruption at the former, and we see opportunities to improve the and invested to reap maximum benefits structural pressures on the print industry general level of operational effectiveness.
These include shared service and central Overall, we have a solid foundation on cost initiatives, simplifying business Small conferences are performing less which to build in 2014 and our businesses structures and improving intercompany well than our large events, diluting overall are currently trading in line with our communication and co-operation.
Despite the negative also believe we can better leverage our rationalise small conference output and translation impact from recent currency Group wide presence in key end markets reduce costs to mitigate the impact, and movements, management will focus on such as healthcare and telecoms, or in are working hard at ways of improving both growth and operational fitness to geographic regions like North America yield and balancing delegate income deliver continued growth in adjusted and the Middle East.
with greater sponsor and exhibitor earnings per share.
The recent acquisition of EBD Group should help here, adding valuable expertise on the partnering model, Stephen A. Carter CBE including clever proprietary software Group Chief Executive that drives delegate engagement.
We are planning to roll out this technology to several other conferences in our portfolio through the year.
INFORMA PLC 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
