Chief Executives 2013 review Business overview Overall, whilst we saw 3.3% growth in our wholesale business, total Im very pleased with our underlying performance during 2013, revenues were US$1,261.9m, 5.7% lower than last years revenues which weve delivered in a challenging operating environment.
Revenues were impacted primarily because of two Especially over the last year, I would like to acknowledge the areas of contribution: an expected reduction in revenues related contribution our employees make and thank them for their to our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared, and reduced passion and tremendous commitment to our business.
revenues in our Inmarsat Solutions segment, which arose largely as a result of a sudden and pronounced contraction in our US Over the next few pages, I have set out the key elements of the government retail business.
As Andy mentioned in his Chairmans progress weve made as a team: statement, it is particularly pleasing that we have returned our wholesale business to growth and exceeded our growth targets Strong wholesale MSS revenue growth and tight cost control.
A period of sustained innovation as exciting as any time in Inmarsats history.
With the reduction in our overall revenues year-on-year, we wanted to ensure that our cash flow remained robust and took action Excellent operational performance from our L-band within the business to manage our costs as tightly as possible.
net operating costs almost 5% lower than last year at US$613.1m Strong progress in our Global Xpress programme, which compared to US$643.1m in 2012, we achieved this.
We took remains on schedule and on budget.
action quickly and effectively when we saw a shortfall in revenues Strengthening our services portfolio through the acquisitions arising as a result of the reduction in our US Government retail of TC Communications & Globe Wireless and extending our business, demonstrating the responsibility that we have to our channel reach into new market verticals via a strategic shareholders.
In spite of the above, we maintain a strong financial partnership with RigNet.
position with all our capital programmes fully funded.
Continued development of the business unit structure, including new leadership in the US Government business Last year, all US government agencies faced a challenging period unit and the creation of a new Commercial Aviation business as budget cutbacks and uncertainty continued.
Some of the policy unit for 2014. differences that led to budget uncertainty in the US appeared to be stabilising by the end of 2013, but the budget-constrained US defence market will continue to challenge maintenance of both revenue and margins for our products and services.
In addition, the withdrawal of troop deployments from Afghanistan and forced reduction in the Southwest Asia region also reduced demand in both our US Government business unit and for existing customers within the Global Government business unit.
In 2011 and 2012, we received significant payments from a US Rupert Pearce Chief Executive Officer company, LightSquared, as part of an agreement we signed which enabled them to lease some of our L-band satellite spectrum in North America.
Our business relationship was documented in a Cooperation Agreement.
LightSquared faced operational difficulties as a business and in April 2012 we agreed to amend that Cooperation Agreement and to suspend all LightSquared lease payments to us until April 2014.
We continue to recognise some limited revenues under the Cooperation Agreement, as we incur certain costs in maintaining our readiness to perform obligations to LightSquared.
LightSquared is going through a US bankruptcy process and we are monitoring the situation carefully.
MSS Revenue growth We have returned our wholesale business to growth and exceeded our growth targets for the 2012-13 period.
INMARSAT PLC 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Strong progress against our strategy Investing in next generation networks In my CEO report last year, I laid out our strategic focus which is summarised on pages 4 to 7.
Our key strategic goals remain as Our results for 2013 were achieved against the backdrop of valid and appropriate now for the business as described then.
the biggest capital investment year by far in Inmarsats The twin engines of growth for us are our investment in innovation 34-year history.
and the reach and capabilities of our distribution channel to market.
These two factors position us well to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead.
We have a strong track record as successful innovators, but right now is perhaps as exciting as its ever been in our 34-year history.
The Inmarsat-4 services platform is robust, with BGAN, FleetBroadband and SwiftBroadband all now highly successful products and services and making material contributions to our growth, but we continue to innovate.
In 2013 we launched both new machine-to-machine M2M services and products, as well as the BGAN High Data Rate HDR service offering enhanced broadband data rates for laptop-sized devices.
This new wave of market-enhancing Inmarsat-4-based products and services will continue in 2014 with a new handheld satellite phone IsatPhone 2 to complement our current highly successful IsatPhone Pro, and three new broadband services platforms, FleetOne, IsatHub and SB 200.
We expect these to extend our capabilities onto much smaller platforms at sea, on land and in the air.
This L-band innovation is already reflecting new revenue growth by driving increased usage of our services by existing subscribers, as well Recent awards as taking us into new market segments.
UK Stock Market Award for SSPI Innovation Award for A key focus in 2013, continuing into 2014, is the realisation of Best Telecoms PLC Improving Space Safety our US$1.6bn Global Xpress GX programme, which we The UK Stock Market Awards Inmarsats role in making expect to start to contribute to our revenues from the second 10-strong panel of City of London operations in space safer and half of 2014.
This is the largest capital expenditure programme in investment firms and personal more reliable was recognised Inmarsats history.
GX will be supported initially by three Inmarsat-5 advisors presented Inmarsat with as an industry innovator by the generation Ka-band satellites, delivering seamless global coverage the Best Telecoms PLC prize Society of Satellite Professionals and supporting satellite services with broadband speeds of up to for its ability to deliver excellent International SSPI.
The society 50 Mbps for users in the government, maritime, energy, enterprise financial performance, strategic presented the Space Data and aviation sectors.
and operational development Association SDA with its and robust shareholder value.
Innovation in Industry Andy has already mentioned in his Chairmans statement that we Collaboration on the Safe Use had a successful launch of the first Inmarsat-5 satellite in December Global Carrier Award for of Space award.
The SDA was 2013 and since that date we have successfully deployed the Corporate Social founded by Inmarsat, Intelsat spacecraft, delivered it into its operational orbit location and Responsibility and SES in 2009. completed in-orbit payload testing.
We currently expect to Inmarsat was announced as commence commercial services over the satellite around mid-2014.
winner in the Corporate Social IVCA Award for Corporate Our GX programme remains on track both as to schedule and cost Responsibility Special Recognition Communications and the delivery timings for the Inmarsat-5 F2 and F3 satellites category at the 2013 Global Inmarsat was honoured by continues to provide for a launch programme such that we expect Carrier Awards for its work the International Visual to complete global coverage by the end of 2014. with Tlcoms Sans Frontires Communications Association in providing essential IVCA with a Bronze award in the In 2013, we exercised an option to purchase a fourth Inmarsat-5 communications solutions at Best International Film category satellite under our existing contract with Boeing.
This satellite times of devastating natural at the IVCA Awards 2013 for its has a delivery schedule of mid-2016 and will provide an early disasters and debilitating civil Timeline video, which powerfully available spare in the event of a launch failure of the second or conflicts.
The award recognises charts the Companys landmark third Inmarsat-5 satellites.
In the event the satellite is not required Inmarsat and Tlcoms Sans achievements throughout its as a launch spare, we are developing an incremental business Frontires shared goal of 34-year history against a backdrop case to support its launch to increase capacity and strategically providing communications of global news stories and events.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Establishing a new communications platform requires more Finally, our investment in a highly innovative service enablement than just the satellites to ensure its success.
We are also building platform our SEP programme, through Cisco, will provide the glue a new ground network for our GX services to be deployed between our L-band and Ka-band networks to bring them together around the world.
The ground stations to serve Inmarsat-5 F1 into a unique integrated capability.
This service will empower and have been completed and are now in operation in Fucino Italy accelerate the business of turning our global network into a and Nemea Greece.
The ground stations for Inmarsat-5 F2 are super-charged value-added delivery mechanism for our certified also completed, and undergoing final testing in North America application partners, for the unique benefit of our end users.
We Lino Lakes in the US and Winnipeg in Canada, and work for are actively recruiting certified application providers to support us the Inmarsat-5 F3 ground stations is well underway at two in our ambitions to be a leader in bringing high-value innovative New Zealand sites, Auckland and Warkworth.
We have also solutions and services to our end users across our global networks.
constructed secure facilities in our ground stations worldwide to We have set shareholder expectations that we will achieve annual support critical commercial and government mission assurance GX revenues of US$500m per annum by the fifth anniversary of needs and we continue to invest in meeting the highest levels the launch of global GX services and we already have significant of cyber security.
Indeed, the Inmarsat-5 global network will be channel contractual commitments for example from Boeing, among the most secure commercial satellite networks ever built.
Honeywell and RigNet, as well as material numbers of maritime We have partnered with world class manufacturers to cover VSAT users who have made contractual commitments to transition our target markets and applications and were excited that to GX.
These early commitments from distributors and customers they have the same commitment as we do to bring GX to a are a powerful indication that, in our core customer markets of successful introduction.
maritime, aviation and government services, we believe demand for GX will be strong.
Indeed, governments worldwide have The number of Value-Added Resellers VARs that we have expressed strong interest in GX to complement their Ka-band appointed to distribute GX services continues to grow across all military satellite investments and we expect that they will be some the core target markets for this new service.
Some of these are of the earliest adopters of this unique capability.
We also believe, well-established existing partners, such as Astrium, others are based on the growing demand for broadband connectivity over new to the Inmarsat channel, such as Boeing.
the oceans, in remote environments and on the move wherever people go, that GX is hitting the market at the right time.
Just some of the business partners helping us into the Global Xpress era Airbus Defence and Space Honeywell OnAir Aircell iDirect Paradigm Communications ARINC Direct IEC Telecom Group RigNet Boeing Imtech Marine Satcom Direct Cisco Inmarsat Government Satcom1 Cobham Satcom Intellian SED E-3 Systems JRC SingTel ESL Group Kymeta Skyware Technologies Gilat Satellite Networks L-3 Global Communications Tampa Microwave Globecomm Solutions Telemar Gogo Navarino Telespazio Network Innovations Thales NSSL Global INMARSAT PLC 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 In 2013, we had a busy year of corporate transactions two acquisitions: TC Comms and Globe Wireless: and a major sale and strategic alignment when RigNet bought our retail energy business and became a strategic partner to distribute our L-band and GX services.
Business development On 17 December 2013, we announced we had agreed to acquire During the year, we were active in reviewing the structure of our the mobile satellite communications business and substantially all business and what we could do to strengthen or maximise value of the related assets of Globe Wireless LLC Globe Wireless, and through acquisition or divestment.
These activities all support our we completed that acquisition on 2 January 2014.
Globe Wireless long-term growth strategy.
is a leading provider of value-added maritime communications services to the shipping market with an installed customer base In May 2013, we acquired TC Communications Pty Ltd at the date of acquisition of over 6,000 ships.
The acquisition will TC Comms, a company based in Australia.
The operations of benefit our Commercial Maritime business unit which sits within the TC Comms have been integrated within our Inmarsat Solutions Inmarsat Solutions business segment.
We expect to benefit from business and the acquisition has strengthened our VSAT, military significant operating synergies and enhanced revenue growth as satcoms, aviation and solutions skills in Inmarsats Global we integrate Globe Wireless into our business.
Government and Enterprise business units.
A key focus during 2013 has been on the BRICs Brazil, Russia, India In August 2013, we announced a strategic partnership with and China markets and we are working on various opportunities RigNet, Inc. RigNet, a global provider of managed remote to open up these markets.
One key achievement late in 2013 was telecommunications solutions to the oil and gas industry, to offer the opening of a BGAN satellite access station SAS in Beijing, GX and L-band services to the energy sector.
With important funding from the Chinese government, this the agreement, RigNet became a GX distribution partner and four year programme was led by a joint team from Inmarsat and entered into a five-year GX capacity pre-purchase agreement.
In our long-standing Chinese distribution partner, MCN.
The China connection with the agreement, we agreed to sell the majority of BGAN SAS will allow us to comply with regulatory and legal our retail energy business to RigNet.
On 3 February 2014, following requirements which stipulate that we must have a physical gateway regulatory and other approvals, we announced completion of the in China to sell our Inmarsat-4 services there.
We intend to proceed sale and look forward to the start of a strategic relationship with with a gateway facility to be built for our GSPS service in 2014. them.
The sale included our microwave and WiMAX networks in the US Gulf of Mexico, our VSAT interests in the UK, the US and Canada, our telecommunications systems integration business operating worldwide and our retail L-band energy satcoms business.
Around 180 employees moved to RigNet and we wish them well.
We will continue to maintain a close working relationship for them as RigNet will be an important distribution partner for us.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Our staff Our corporate values: During 2013 Peter Hadinger was appointed as the new President of our US Government business unit and Susan Miller was Passion appointed as President and CEO of our Inmarsat Government retail business.
They each have a clear objective to look to A pride in what we do rebuild this part of our business over the coming years.
We also Leverage diverse talent took the decision that with effect from 2014 we would identify our Commercial Aviation business as a separate business unit, Determination to deliver under the leadership of Miranda Mills, operating initially within our Growth Management and Support GMS division.
We are very pleased with how these senior managers have taken on Openness these new and additional responsibilities.
Andy has mentioned the contribution from Rick Medlock as a Board member and also To ideas, internal and external as a member of my Executive Staff, and I too would like to thank To accountability him for his powerful input and consistent support of Inmarsat over many years.
We have a diverse, experienced senior management To cultures and personality team and benefit from their different perspectives to work powerfully together to achieve common goals.
I am sure that our new CFO, Tony Bates, who we expect to join us in June, will Enterprising be a very strong contributor to our business and I look forward to Considered risk-taking welcoming him in due course.
Decisiveness Recognising the broader management tier across the business is important we have a Group Management Team which Accountability within the team comprises approximately 65 employees who meet with senior management every quarter.
Bringing this group together on a regular basis helps us to align and enact business initiatives Market-driven throughout the Group, to get feedback and ideas from our senior Innovation rooted in customer needs colleagues as a group.
This interaction assists management with our succession planning and leadership development programmes.
We listen to partners and customers During 2013, we asked a great deal from our staff: We deliver enduring business value To both maintain the overall growth in our core MSS business and innovate to prepare the ground for our future growth: To support various corporate transactions including two Our Executive Team substantial acquisitions, a major sale and strategic alignment, This team is responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
and continuing organisational development : To maintain the GX and SEP programmes on time and to budget: and Rich Harris Andy Start To successfully launch two satellites Alphasat and Inmarsat-5 SVP Legal & Regulatory Affairs President, Inmarsat Global F1.
Government Peter Hadinger All of this was set against a backdrop of necessary cost controls President, Inmarsat US Leo Mondale across the business, including a pay freeze.
To achieve all of this Government BU MD, Global Xpress has been a tremendous accomplishment and I would like to thank everyone for their hard work, skill and commitment to Inmarsat Alison Horrocks Frank Coles and to each other.
SVP Corporate Governance President, Inmarsat Maritime & Company Secretary One Inmarsat is our vision for how we intend to operate Rupert Pearce effectively as an integrated business across the entire organisation.
Debbie Jones Chief Executive Officer Recognising that the organisation has evolved substantially SVP Corporate Development over the last few years, and now spans offices in approximately Ruy Pinto 40 countries, it is of critical importance that we mobilise our global Ronald Spithout Chief Operations Officer assets coherently and engage our talented and diverse workforce President, Inmarsat Enterprise in a fully collaborative way.
In 2014 we therefore established a Andrew Sukawaty programme we are calling our Year of Engagement.
This Executive Chairman programme starts with a comprehensive staff survey to understand what our staff think is good and should be preserved and enhanced, and where they believe we can make improvements.
We are committed to developing the skills and capabilities of our workforce through training and career development.
INMARSAT PLC 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Energy Technology Maritime Safety Business operations Enterprise Let me now provide an overview of the performance from our two operating segments.
Construction As a reminder, our Inmarsat Global segment is our wholesale business where our focus is the provision of satellite services.
Our distribution Logistical channel using our L-band network.
Our Inmarsat Solutions segment is our retail arm, which on-sells Aviation our wholesale services and third party satellite and related services, either directly to end Land customers or indirectly via service providers.
During 2013 we operated through four Exploration market-facing business units: Commercial Maritime: focusing on worldwide Innovation commercial maritime opportunities: US Government: focusing on US Government Personal opportunities, both military and civil: Global Government: focusing on worldwide Business i. e. non-US civil and military government opportunities: and Enterprise: focusing on worldwide energy, infinite industry, media, carriers, commercial aviation and M2M opportunities.
Powering communication In 2014, we spun out from our Enterprise business needs unit a new business unit, Commercial Aviation, to focus on business aviation and commercial air transport opportunities.
Exploration The activities of these vertically facing business units, which in several cases integrate elements Technology of our Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions segments, are described in the following pages.
Communication Government Emergency Responsibility Health Learning Utilities Partners Commercial INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Inmarsat Global operating update: Maritime During 2013, MSS revenues increased by 3.3% year-on-year.
As Our maritime revenues are the largest contributor to our wholesale already noted, we are pleased to see a sustained return to growth MSS revenues.
The steady migration away from our legacy over 2012-13, as this is our core business.
The effect of the maritime services, that began to gather momentum in 2012, reduction in revenues from our Cooperation Agreement with has continued to be a contributing factor to the growth of LightSquared is included in this reporting segment.
We also believe that FB has expanded our addressable market too, for example via the FB150 service, Revenue growth was primarily driven by good performance in which is attractive to smaller vessels.
our maritime and aviation parts of the business.
Our land mobile business had to contend with the expected decline in revenues FB is by far the most successful service that Inmarsat has launched from our BGAN and GAN services due to troop withdrawals from to date, with an average of 600 new subscribers added every Afghanistan.
We are continuing to see a migration to our newer month in 2013.
However, we believe that the main driver of FB services which is beneficial to the business in terms of improved adoption has not been the proximity to the end of life of older network capacity and spectrum usage.
Although the cost of our Inmarsat maritime services such as Inmarsat B but rather the newer services is typically less than our older services, we believe shipping industry beginning to recognise the value of more that when customers experience the benefits of the digital services data-heavy value-added services and solutions for the provision this can lead to increased data usage and revenue generation.
of crew welfare and operational efficiency applications.
Finally, the agility of FB has resulted in significant growth in the fishing and Our MSS services are accessed through our L-band satellites.
leisure sectors with over 3,000 new users signing up to small We have multiple satellite constellations: Inmarsat-2, Inmarsat-3 vessel rate plans.
and Inmarsat-4, which in 2013 was augmented by the addition of a compatible new satellite Alphasat.
Alphasat enhances our Economic conditions remain very challenging for the global Inmarsat-4 network and provides in-orbit redundancy, meaning a shipping community, as they have done for several years.
Inmarsat failure of either Alphasat or any one Inmarsat-4 satellite would not is competing in a market where alternative providers of maritime affect our ability to continue to offer global coverage in L-band via communications services create increasingly more complicated the remaining satellites, other than for a relatively short period of and challenging offerings, with some competitors moving into the disruption.
The addition of Alphasat gives us extended life on the provision of value-added services as a part of their offering.
The Inmarsat-4 constellation, more satellite capacity, spectrum access level of subscriber and revenue growth achieved in maritime in via extended L-band and enhanced coverage over the EMEA 2013 is a reflection that ship owners and fleet managers see the region.
The Inmarsat-4 satellite fleet now supports the majority benefits and value of our services, and reflects extensive efforts to of our traffic and revenues.
The Alphasat programme was an offer customers not just reliability and unique service capabilities important joint collaboration with the European Space Agency, but also agility, flexibility and choice in the way that these services Astrium, Arianespace, CNES and the UK Space Agency and are procured and deployed.
the successful launch and subsequent commercial operation is a testament to the professionalism of all those involved in As part of this strategy, we intend to leverage our investment in the project.
the SEP as well as core enabling technology acquired by the Globe Wireless acquisition to provide an unrivalled managed service We pride ourselves on the reliability of our satellites, which so solution.
This will offer enhanced functionality to our partners far have exceeded their design lives.
We have fide-orbited two and end customers, and create a unique ecosystem to facilitate satellites in the past and during 2013 we fide-orbited one of our the development and delivery of value-added solutions over our two remaining Inmarsat-2 satellites.
This satellite was the first of network by our certified application partners.
Inmarsats second generation and its longest serving.
Launched in 1990, with a design life of 10 years, it provided a reliable service Our continued commitment to GMDSS was again highlighted for more than 22 years.
this year with the exemplary performance of our maritime safety services that proved crucial in the saving of numerous lives, for Although our Inmarsat-4 satellites have a lifetime expected into example during the rescue of the crew of an MOL container vessel the 2020s, we are already reviewing the capabilities we would in the Indian Ocean.
The Mumbai Rescue Coordination Centre require for our next L-band satellite generation the Inmarsat-6 Commandant commented that The quick rescue would have fleet.
Our current plan is that the first Inmarsat-6 satellite would not been possible without the use of Inmarsat.
This is one of the be launched towards the end of this decade.
many citations received in the past year.
Andy notes in his Chairmans statement the exceptional network In 2013 Inmarsat continued its more than 30 year heritage of reliability required to provide compliant safety services for maritime providing distress, urgency and safety alerting, calling and and aviation users and we are very proud to continue to meet this messaging, not just through its legacy systems but now with challenge.
Our networks operate unrivalled levels of availability for FB voice services and our soon-to-be-available Maritime Safety our safety services and of course we also have fleet redundancy Data Service.
We are committed to maintaining our network between the Inmarsat-3 fleet and Inmarsat-4 fleet, providing standards to meet the requirements of our public service contract further comfort.
with the International Mobile Satellite Organisation IMSO and to continuing to exceed the quality of service laid down by the Inmarsat Global provides services across the following sectors: International Maritime Organisation IMO.
Indeed, Inmarsat maritime, land, aviation and leases which are discussed in remains the only satellite communications provider that meets this section.
these high safety standards of the GMDSS.
INMARSAT PLC 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Safety at sea Energy Protecting the lives of mariners on our oceans the world-over has always Technology been integral to our business.
We are proud of our maritime heritage and Maritime our ongoing commitment in helping protect lives at sea.
Safety Enterprise Construction Logistical Aviation Land Exploration Innovation Personal Business Powering emergency support Exploration Technology Communication Government Emergency Responsibility Health Learning Utilities Partners Commercial INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Land 2013 was the second time since our BGAN service launch in 2005, that we increased our streaming capability through the introduction of our new BGAN HDR service, offering on average speeds over 650kbps.
Launched towards the end of 2013, the HDR service was used in earnest in crisis regions including the Philippines, South Sudan and in South Africa to cover the events surrounding Nelson Mandelas funeral.
We believe that BGAN HDR will be very attractive to the global media community.
We have continued to redefine our BGAN service offering in other BGAN HDR delivers areas.
Alongside HDR, we also introduced service revisions to our a portfolio of high BGAN Link service introducing BGAN Link Unlimited in certain data streaming rates geographies.
This represented the first package of its type within for broadcasters and the Enterprise business and is being taken up by energy and utility media organisations companies across the globe.
looking to deliver Another new product initiative in 2013 was an L-band Tactical superior video quality radio L-TAC solution, which uses our global L-band satellites content anywhere in to extend the reach of UHF tactical radios.
We have already the world.
announced initial purchases of this solution by two government customers and have customers undertaking field trials in over a dozen countries.
The L-TAC service supports robust, low-cost beyond-line-of-sight BLOS mobile communications, delivering a UHF-like tactical satellite capability for use with existing military radios that can be used to extend service coverage BLOS, as We are often used when a state of emergency is declared either well as add network capacity for such radios.
We also created in a war torn situation or a natural disaster.
In May 2013, when the considerable interest among government customers worldwide state of Oklahoma was struck with one of the most damaging with our BGAN Push-To-Talk PTT solution.
tornadoes in American history, Inmarsat Government provided immediate voice and data capabilities via our BGAN solution We established a strategic collaboration in 2013 with Pearson to and offered first responder, medical and emergency teams full improve access to education and learning in rural and isolated communication capabilities.
International government response communities around the world.
Through this collaboration, to the devastating typhoon Haiyan was enabled by Inmarsat Pearson will use our BGAN services to enable access to their communications in the critical hours and days after making Education Technology Platforms in areas that currently have landfall in the Philippines.
little or no communications infrastructure.
In a similar vein, we also established a strategic collaboration with Cisco in 2013 to We also began to offer, through Inmarsat Government, a provide the satellite connectivity needed to make Ciscos mobile new product BGAN Converge which is a system able to telemedicine system available in the worlds most remote and compete with VSAT to serve mobile requirements such as video underserved communities.
BGAN Converge enhances the reliable, scalable and secure BGAN product line with bidirectional data rates up As we mentioned in last years annual report, we see exciting to 800kbps.
market opportunities in the global machine-to-machine M2M market.
In 2013, we announced a strategic collaboration with In 2013, we broadened our reach in serving government customers Orbcomm Inc. which is a leading provider of low-end satellite worldwide.
The Global Government business unit has prioritised M2M solutions.
This collaboration involves joint product geographic expansion and worked closely with channel partners development and distribution plans to address growth throughout the year to bring our capabilities to an increasing opportunities in the M2M market.
We are also focusing efforts number of civil government and military customer organisations.
on expanding our market reach by targeting utility and logistics With significant momentum in South America, Africa, and organisations which require reliable cost-effective communications Southwest Asia, our incremental geographic business capabilities.
In 2013, we announced the first BGAN M2M terminal development initiative achieved early success.
to receive Hazardous Locations Accreditation.
New distribution We continue to be very pleased by the uptake of our first handheld agreements in 2013 were also announced with KORE, a wireless phone IsatPhone Pro.
During the year we activated over 28,000 service provider specialising in M2M communications: Stream, IsatPhone Pro terminals.
By year-end we had an active base of who are recognised for their technical strength in designing and approximately 86,000 handsets.
IsatPhone Pro continues to be developing end-to-end wireless connectivity for M2M devices one of our fastest growing services and has enabled us to find a within the mainstream M2M sector and Galaxy1 Communications.
new niche market for cost-conscious users in a highly competitive In 2013, through our Inmarsat Government business, we provided market.
The success of this product has led to the development of new leased capacity to the Defense Information Systems Agency, our next generation product to be delivered across the Inmarsat-4 expanded fixed satellite services and mobile satellite services to network in 2014, IsatPhone 2.
We believe there are market share the US Department of Homeland Security and continued to deliver growth opportunities for both phones.
managed satellite and technical support services as lead satellite provider to the US Department of State.
INMARSAT PLC 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The internet of things Energy With more machines now connected to the internet than people the Technology M2M sector is set for rapid growth.
We offer real-time, IP-based, two-way Maritime satellite connectivity to enable reliable transmission between devices.
Safety Enterprise Construction Logistical Aviation Land Exploration Innovation Personal Business Powering growth sectors Exploration Technology Communication Government Emergency Responsibility Health Learning Utilities Partners Commercial INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Swift 64, the forerunner to SB, is continuing to contribute significant revenues to our aviation business, although we see Aviation some customers starting to migrate to the broadband service and so legacy Swift 64 usage is expected progressively to In 2013 our aviation business saw high growth, continuing a trend reduce over time.
We have also seen a trend towards reduced seen over a number of years.
SwiftBroadband SB continues to be our fastest growing We remain committed to the provision of International Civil aviation service.
The strong adoption of our voice and broadband Aviation Organisation ICAO approved satellite safety services.
data service in the air transport and business aviation markets Last year, we invested in and upgraded the ground infrastructure continued during the year and SB is now used on board more that supports our Aero Classic safety services, successfully than 4,000 aircraft, ranging from the small turbo-prop King Air transferring all traffic onto the new network progressively through to the Airbus A380.
The growth in SB terminal numbers in the the year.
Maintaining our leading-edge approach to service air transport market has been driven by airlines continuing to roll offerings in all markets is important in this high-tech industry out connectivity programmes in passenger cabins.
A key factor and so we are introducing SB safety services to bring priority supporting this market growth is that SB is a factory-installable IP connectivity to the cockpit for the first time.
This service option on both Boeing and Airbus aircraft, reflecting the support will undergo industry approval flight testing with airlines and for this service from airframe manufacturers.
Increased passenger business jet operators during 2014. take-up rates and the growth in applications and content offerings are both driving increased revenue per aircraft.
We also remain focused on increasing our addressable aviation markets by developing new products and services for With the number of connected aircraft continuing to grow, smaller aircraft and helicopters, several of which have been SB usage has risen accordingly, driven by the increase in passenger undergoing testing.
At the end of the year there were more than 40 airlines across the world contracted by our With our upcoming GX aviation service, Inmarsat will be the only partners to use SB, and 19 already using the service to offer their company able to provide a consistent global high-speed data passengers in-flight connectivity for voice and data services.
During 2013 our exclusive GX aviation terminal developer, Honeywell, passed several key milestones, including successfully SB has proved to be a market-leading offer in the business aviation passing the Critical Design Review of the on-board hardware and segment and is a factory option on all high-end business aircraft.
securing line-fit offerability programmes with Boeing for the 737, The segment has continued to show a strong demand for in-flight 747, 757, 777 and 787 models.
connectivity with highest growth in the BRICs countries.
The characteristics of SB, providing a highly reliable and ubiquitous In 2013, we announced the launch of SB HDR.
This new service will global high data rate IP-based service, make it a particularly offer enhanced streaming IP data rates for SB and is expected to good fit for this important market.
High-tech Maintaining our leading-edge approach to service offerings in all markets is important in this high-tech industry and so we are introducing SB safety services to bring priority IP connectivity to the cockpit for the first time.
Making flying safer and more efficient.
With connectivity solutions, such as real-time weather and aircraft maintenance information, Inmarsat can unlock the full potential of the next-generation of aircraft.
INMARSAT PLC 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Nose to tail connectivity Energy Only Inmarsat provides connectivity for the whole aircraft from certified safety Technology communications to high-speed broadband.
Inmarsats technology keeps passengers Maritime in touch as the demand for in-flight connectivity increases.
Safety Enterprise Construction Logistical Aviation Land Exploration Innovation Personal Business Powering global business Exploration Technology Communication Government Emergency Responsibility Health Learning Utilities Partners Commercial INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Chief Executives 2013 review continued Throughout 2013, Inmarsat Government continued to deliver versatile products and services to US Government end users.
Inmarsat Solutions operating update: In particular, through Inmarsat Government we continued to address the significant on-going aviation command, control This segment includes two elements Inmarsat MSS, and and intelligence needs of the Department of Defense, through Broadband and Other MSS.
US Air Force contracts for Classic Aero, Swift 64 and SB services.
Within Inmarsat MSS, we see similar trends as we have experienced As an alternative to the high-end FB packages for end-users who within the Inmarsat Global wholesale business.
Revenues were require a VSAT service, our combined Ku L-band XL solution impacted primarily by a combination of lower leasing revenue has proved to be a popular option.
Throughout 2013, our VSAT and lower land sector revenue from Afghanistan and other world team has worked to improve their touch the ship installation, events, and lower aviation revenues due to a reduction in US maintenance and servicing capability with average numbers in Government Swift 64 revenues.
The revenue reductions were 2012 of around 20 installations growing to over 30 a month in 2013. offset by strong growth in maritime revenues.
With approximately 1,500 VSAT installed vessels being served by us, we have a healthy number of vessels ready for transition to For 2013, Inmarsat Solutions share of Inmarsat Globals MSS our GX service.
We also expect that some ship owners will move revenues was 38%, compared with a 39% share for 2012.
We see straight to GX from Fleet, FB or third party services.
this consistent level of market share validating our message to our partners that our focus remains as a wholesaler, working with our Indeed, we were very pleased when Nordic Tankers A S, a leading partners rather than increasing our direct business operations.
owner and operator of chemical tankers, announced that it will migrate its vessels from an existing VSAT service to XL.
Further A detailed description of what makes up our Broadband and Other good news was the announcement that MOL Ship Management MSS revenues is discussed in the financial review on page 28.
Co. Ltd had commenced migrating over 100 vessels from our Broadband and Other MSS revenues decreased during 2013 by 200 MB FB plan to our larger 6 GB plan and, in addition, Beltship US$24.7m, or 6.0%, compared with 2012.
The decrease is due Management Limited and Swire Pacific Offshore announced they primarily to a reduction in revenue from our US Government had deployed the FB Unlimited service across over 70 vessels.
Our business unit as a result of a reduction in new business manufacturers have supported the XL business opportunity and in opportunities, loss of contract renewals and contract renewals 2013 we announced that Intellians FB terminals are now approved at lower prices and or service levels.
There was also a decrease for use with the service.
In 2013, we continued our role as a leading in VSAT revenue in our energy business.
These decreases provider of managed network services and mobile satellite services were partially offset by increased Commercial Maritime to US Navy and US Coast Guard customers.
business unit revenues as a result of growth in the number During the year we were able to introduce a new stabilised of ships served with XpressLink XL, as well as from growth microwave service, designed to expand the reach and extend our in other business units.
existing Gulf of Mexico service to locations further offshore.
These In 2013, we re-aligned our US Government structure to better assets have subsequently been sold to RigNet as part of the sale of serve customers and partners facing tighter budget conditions.
Within the US Government business unit, Inmarsat Government has now become our focused retail organisation for addressing secure, mission-critical communications markets.
With the change in US defence operational activities, our retail focus through Inmarsat Government is increasingly addressing Leading Role durable satellite communications needs in support of intelligence, In 2013, we continued our role as special operations and federal civilian segments.
By segregating our retail operation behind a proxy structure, Inmarsat Government a leading provider of managed is free to address a full range of sensitive US Government network services and mobile customers and applications requiring the highest security levels, while the reconfigured US Government business unit now serves satellite services to US Navy only its channel partners including Inmarsat Government with wholesale MSS services.
and US Coast Guard customers.
INMARSAT PLC 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Outlook A wave of innovation across our Inmarsat-4 and Inmarsat-5 networks, a fully-funded business plan with a strong balance sheet and highly cash-generative business model, gives us great confidence in the future.
Our innovation is leveraged powerfully by our many channel partners, who together reach every corner of the globe with our services and who add the necessary customer intimacy and, of course, the value-added services and solutions, that transform our unique global mobile connectivity into highly relevant operational outcomes for our end customers.
We see this collaborative business model as agile, highly efficient and increasingly relevant in a rapidly changing world.
Our employees make our business a success and I hope that their views, ideas and enthusiasm for the business will be reflected in the outcome from our 2014 Staff Survey and Year of Engagement.
Inmarsat has a very clear pathway to exciting future growth: we have the capabilities to secure our goals by working together with our partners and wider ecosystem.
Growth will be transformational for all of us and we expect that growth will itself create more growth opportunities for Inmarsat and our business partners.
Thank you for your support of and investment in Inmarsat.
Rupert Pearce Chief Executive Officer 6 March 2014 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 2013 Financial Review capital expenditure exceeding half a billion dollars.
Through careful Overview planning, we have been fully-funded throughout this capital cycle The outstanding development of 2013 was continued growth in and remain so for the foreseeable future.
We did not raise any new our core MSS revenues, building on the return to growth we saw financing in 2013 and still ended the year with total liquidity in in 2012.
Inmarsat Global MSS revenues grew by 3.3% in the year, excess of US$1bn.
meaning we delivered a two-year CAGR of 2.9% against our public We also ended the year with comfortable leverage and significant target of 0% to 2% set out at the beginning of 2012.
This growth operational headroom to our financial covenants.
As a result we was achieved despite ongoing headwinds from the withdrawal of can continue to invest in our business and fund strong dividends troops from Afghanistan and a challenging economic backdrop.
As our capital expenditure cycle rolls off in At the end of the year, we estimate that our remaining revenue the medium-term, our ability to fund further dividends will from supporting coalition forces in Afghanistan has now dropped naturally strengthen.
to very modest levels and will therefore have a minimal impact in future periods.
Growth in MSS revenues in 2013 was also marked by continued take-up of our subscription-based service packages, Total Group results which are largely replacing usage-based terms and therefore improving revenue assurance.
The results are the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Inmarsat plc for the year ended In 2013, a decline in EBITDA compared to 2012 reflects reduced 31 December 2013.
We report two operating segments, revenues from our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared and Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions.
an expected increase in Global Xpress GX costs as we ramp up our activities in preparation for the launch of GX services.
EBITDA, The table below sets out the results of the Group for the excluding the contribution from LightSquared and GX costs, grew years indicated: marginally year-over-year, reflecting growth in core MSS revenues, Increase but also careful cost management following an adverse change in US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease revenues and profit from our retail US Government business Revenues 1,261.9 1,337.8 5.7% reported within Inmarsat Solutions.
Employee benefit costs 244.8 233.0 5.1% Network and satellite Following the US federal budget sequestration during the first operations costs 281.6 295.1 4.6% quarter of 2013, US Government spending cuts were mandated Other operating costs 116.9 139.1 16.0% and this had an immediate impact on our US Government Own work capitalised 30.2 24.1 25.3% business unit, resulting in a reduction in our revenues and margins Total net operating costs 613.1 643.1 4.7% as well as triggering an increase in competition due to reduced opportunities.
The vast majority of the affected activities involve the EBITDA 648.8 694.7 6.6% sale of turnkey managed network services to various organisations EBITDA excluding within the US Department of Defense.
These networks largely rely LightSquared 639.8 642.8 0.5% on Ku-band wholesale capacity, which we procure from other Depreciation and operators, and therefore we did not see an equivalent impact amortisation 232.0 255.2 9.1% on our wholesale MSS revenues: and this remained the case Loss on disposal of assets 0.1 0.5 80.0% throughout the year.
Although we recorded an impairment charge Acquisition-related partially as a result of this change in spending, we believe the adjustments 4.6 strategic importance of our US Government retail business to Impairment losses 185.2 94.7 95.6% position GX services with US Government customers is in no Share of profit of associates 2.3 2.1 9.5% way impacted.
Operating profit 238.4 346.4 31.2% Other retail activities within Inmarsat Solutions performed strongly Interest receivable and and provided a level of compensating revenue and profit growth.
similar income 4.9 3.2 53.1% We were particularly encouraged by the growth of XpressLink, Interest payable and our combined L-band and maritime VSAT service which offers an similar charges 54.2 56.0 3.2% automatic upgrade path for customers to GX.
This service saw very Net interest payable 49.3 52.8 6.6% strong growth, rapidly improving our market share and providing Profit before income tax 189.1 293.6 35.6% an increased level of GX pre-sales.
However, to ensure an overall Income tax expense 86.5 76.2 13.5% strong performance in operating cash flow for the year, we also Profit for the year 102.6 217.4 52.8% implemented cost controls across the business, while maintaining essential cost investment in GX.
These efforts ensured that we Revenues delivered an EBITDA performance in line with market expectations Total Group revenues for 2013 decreased by 5.7%, compared for the year, although by way of a change to the expected mix of with 2012, as a result of a reduction in revenues recognised in revenue and EBITDA from our reporting segments.
relation to our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared and reduced revenues in our Inmarsat Solutions segment, partially 2013 was also marked by the start of a period of intensive offset by growth in wholesale MSS revenues in our Inmarsat operational deployment, including the launch of two new satellites.
This activity and our decision to order a fourth Inmarsat-5 satellite contributed to the most capital intensive year in our history, with INMARSAT PLC 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The table below sets out the components, by segment, of the Depreciation and amortisation Groups total revenue for each of the years indicated: The decrease in depreciation and amortisation of US$23.2m Increase is primarily due to a US$13.4m depreciation adjustment in the US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease Inmarsat Solutions segment to correct the prior period carrying Inmarsat Global: values of certain assets relating to the former Stratos business.
Wholesale MSS 762.4 738.0 3.3% In addition, following the 1 August 2013 announcement of the disposal of certain retail energy assets to RigNet, depreciation LightSquared 12.3 60.2 79.6% ceased on these assets as they were transferred to assets held for Other 32.3 37.7 14.3% sale on the Balance Sheet.
Additionally, depreciation decreased Total Inmarsat Global year-on-year following the impairment of previously capitalised segment 807.0 835.9 3.5% S-band assets through accelerated depreciation in 2012.
The Inmarsat Solutions segment 765.5 810.3 5.5% decrease in depreciation and amortisation was partially offset by 1,572.5 1,646.2 4.5% an increase in depreciation in the Inmarsat Global segment in 2013 Intercompany eliminations largely due to the Alphasat satellite entering commercial service and adjustments 310.6 308.4 and therefore starting to be depreciated in November 2013.
Total revenue 1,261.9 1,337.8 5.7% Acquisition-related adjustments Net operating costs During 2013, we recorded an adjustment of US$4.6m 2012: US$nil Total Group net operating costs for 2013 decreased by 4.7%, relating to a historic tax issue which was settled during the year.
A compared with 2012, primarily as a result of cost decreases in portion of the receivable had previously been written-off as a fair our Inmarsat Solutions segment.
The table below sets out the value adjustment in relation to the acquisition in December 2003 components, by segment, of the Groups net operating costs of Inmarsat Ventures Limited a holding company of the Groups for each of the years indicated: operating companies by Inmarsat Group Holdings Limited subsequently renamed Inmarsat plc and the write-back of this US$ in millions 2013 2012 Decrease element is therefore an acquisition-related adjustment.
Inmarsat Global 235.7 238.6 1.2% Impairment losses Inmarsat Solutions 688.3 713.2 3.5% During 2013 we recognised impairment losses of US$185.2m, 924.0 951.8 2.9% compared with US$94.7m in 2012.
During 2013, the following Intercompany eliminations significant impairment losses were recognised: and adjustments 310.9 308.7 Total net operating costs 613.1 643.1 4.7% US$9.4m of impairment losses in relation to a correction made to depreciation in 2013 relating to prior periods in the Inmarsat EBITDA Solutions segment.
This resulted in the carrying value of the Group EBITDA for 2013 decreased by 6.6% compared with 2012: Stratos cash-generating unit CGU being increased above this was primarily as a result of decreased revenue from our the estimated recoverable amount of the Stratos CGU at Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared and decreased 31 December 2012 and therefore a further impairment charge revenue in our Inmarsat Solutions segment, partially offset by was recognised based on the revised carrying amount of the increased Inmarsat Global MSS revenues and a reduction in total CGU at 31 December 2012.
There is no impact on reported net operating costs.
profit for the year in prior periods due to the offsetting a depreciation adjustment and related goodwill impairment: EBITDA excluding LightSquared US$27.5m of impairment losses in relation to an adjustment to US$ in millions the carrying value of the retail energy assets being disposed of 800 100 in the RigNet transaction to write them down to their fair value less costs to sell, prior to reclassification as held for sale assets 90 700 during 2013: 679.0 661.8 80 642.8 639.8 600 US$52.0m of impairment losses in relation to the impairment 594.2 70 of goodwill and other intangible assets in our Segovia CGU, as 500 60 a result of ongoing spending controls being implemented by 58.8% the US Government and by a related increase in competition.
400 50 57.0% 55.0% 51.2% 50.0% Accordingly, we have experienced a significant reduction in 40 300 revenue and margins: and 30 200 20 100 10 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 0 EBITDA excluding LightSquared EBITDA margin, excluding LightSquared a R epresents the Inmarsat plc Group, which includes Segovia from 12 January 2010, Ship Equip from 28 April 2011, NewWave Broadband from 13 January 2012 and TC Comms from 8 May 2013.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 2013 Financial Review continued In addition, following annual goodwill impairment reviews, Profit before tax US$61.5m of goodwill was impaired in relation to the Stratos As a result of the factors discussed above, profit before tax for 2013 was US$189.1m, a decrease of US$104.5m, or 36%, compared CGU and US$33.5m of goodwill was impaired in relation to with 2012. the Ship Equip CGU.
In both CGUs, the impairment losses are due to further changes arising from our vertical market Income tax expense reorganisation and our preparations for the introduction of The tax charge for 2013 was US$86.5m, an increase of US$10.3m, GX services.
In particular, in the Stratos CGU, the promotion of or 13.5%, compared with 2012.
The increase in tax charge is largely certain significant customers as distribution partners of Inmarsat driven by a US$53.7m provision for potential tax liabilities in Global for GX has significantly reduced forecast revenues and relation to the financing of an historic leasing transaction in respect margins in the Stratos CGU, while having no impact on the of the Inmarsat-4 satellites: in light of developments in the year, outlook for the Group as a whole.
The Stratos CGU has also management now believe that the potential exposure in respect faced a decline in demand for certain VSAT products and MSS of this transaction should be provided for.
Additionally, there were equipment sales during the year.
This, in combination with the prior year adjustments giving rise to a non-recurring tax charge of faster than expected migration of older services to newer US$1.0m prior year adjustment for 2012 resulted in a non-recurring services which typically have a lower price of equivalent services tax credit of US$12.6m.
than on the terminal being replaced, has led to operating profit forecasts for these products being reduced.
In the Ship Equip The impact of these items was partially offset by a tax credit of CGU, in line with our strategic plan, growth in operating profits US$26.0m in relation to the impairment losses recognised in the year 2012: US$nil and a non-recurring tax credit of US$23.2m on is expected to slow as Ship Equips customer base moves from the revaluation of UK deferred tax liabilities.
This arose following higher margin VSAT services to GX services.
the July 2013 substantive enactment of the UK corporation tax rate We remain confident that, at a Group level, legacy Stratos, reduction from 23% to 20%, which will become effective in 2014 Segovia and Ship Equip continue to deliver material value, directly and 2015.
For 2012, there was a non-recurring tax credit of US$8.4m or indirectly, to our core wholesale business in accordance with in respect of the revaluation of UK deferred tax liabilities from 25% our strategy.
There were also other non-taxable items arising in 2013 resulting in a tax credit totalling US$6.1m 2012: tax charge totalling During 2012 we implemented operational changes arising from US$1.7m.
The tax charge also decreased due to a decrease in our vertical market reorganisation and our preparations for the profit before tax excluding impairment losses in 2013. introduction of GX services.
These changes, and certain other external factors, gave rise to an impairment loss within our Inmarsat The effective tax rate for 2013 was 45.7% compared with 26.0% Solutions segment of US$94.7m for the year ended 31 December for 2012.
Excluding the impact of the US$185.2m of impairment 2012.
Some of the factors that gave rise to the impairment within losses on profit before tax 2012: US$94.7m and in the absence the Inmarsat Solutions segment had an offsetting positive benefit of the above adjustments, the effective tax rates would have been within the Inmarsat Global segment and therefore did not result in 23.3% for 2013 and 24.6% for 2012.
This decrease in the adjusted an equivalent gross impact at the Group level.
The impairment loss effective tax rate is primarily due the reduction in the UK main rate related to a partial impairment of the goodwill that was originally of corporation tax from 24% to 23%.
While the reduction did not recognised when we acquired the Stratos and Ship Equip become effective until 1 April 2013, this has the effect of lowering businesses impairment of US$58.7m and US$36.0m, respectively.
Operating profit Profit for the period As a result of the factors discussed above, operating profit during As a result of the factors discussed above, profit for 2013 was 2013 was US$238.4m, a decrease of US$108.0m, or 31%, compared US$102.6m, a decrease of US$114.8m, or 53%, compared with 2012. with 2012.
Interest Earnings per share Net interest payable for 2013 was US$49.3m, a decrease of For 2013, basic and diluted earnings per share for profit US$3.5m, or 6.6%, compared with 2012. attributable to the equity holders of the Company were 23 cents US$ and 23 cents US$, respectively, compared with 48 cents Interest payable for 2013 was US$54.2m, a decrease of US$1.8m, US$ and 48 cents US$, respectively, for 2012. or 3.2%, compared with 2012.
The decrease is due to US$79.1m of interest that was capitalised in 2013 that was attributable to The 2013 basic and diluted earnings per share adjusted to exclude the construction of our Alphasat and Inmarsat-5 satellites and the after-tax effect of the impairment losses and LightSquared associated ground infrastructure, compared with US$42.9m contribution, were 57 cents US$ and 56 cents US$, respectively, capitalised in 2012.
This decrease was partially offset by a noncompared with 61 cents US$ and 60 cents US$, respectively, recurring US$30.2m credit to interest payable in November 2012, for 2012. arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date of our Convertible Bonds, and an increase in interest following further drawdowns of our Ex-Im Bank Facility.
INMARSAT PLC 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Inmarsat Global MSS Revenue Inmarsat Global Results Revenues During 2013, although revenues from Inmarsat Global were By sector 2013 By sector 2012 US$807.0m, a decrease of US$28.9m, or 3.5%, compared with 1.
Maritime 56% 2012, MSS revenues increased by US$24.4m, or 3.3%, year-on-year.
Land mobile 18% The decrease in total revenues in 2013 is due to the reduction in 3.
Aviation 14% revenues recognised in relation to our Cooperation Agreement 4.
MSS revenue growth was primarily driven by increased activations 4. and usage of our FleetBroadband and SwiftBroadband services 4. and by the effect of price initiatives for maritime data services.
As in recent periods, growth in our land mobile sector has been partly offset by the continued expected decline in revenues from 3.
3. our BGAN and GAN services due to troop withdrawals from Afghanistan.
In addition, we experienced a continued and expected decline in maritime voice revenues due to the impact of product mix changes and, more generally, we have experienced 2.
2. a decline year-on-year in revenues from older services such as Inmarsat B, Mini M, Fleet, GAN and Swift 64, as users continue to migrate to newer services.
The results also reflect the expected termination of certain lease business.
Active terminals Total active terminal numbers as at 31 December 2013 increased by The table below sets out the components of Inmarsat Globals 1.3%, compared with 31 December 2012.
The table below sets out revenue for each of the years indicated: the active terminals by sector for each of the years indicated: Increase a Active terminals US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease a 000 Revenue Maritime sector: Voice services 72.4 79.7 9.2% 400 17.0 Data services 358.7 331.5 8.2% 15.4 350 Total maritime sector 431.1 411.2 4.8% 163.8 13.5 161.3 Land mobile sector: 300 12.4 118.3 Voice services 21.6 14.3 51.0% 11.1 88.5 250 Data services 109.6 118.1 7.2% 73.7 Total land mobile sector 131.2 132.4 0.9% 200 Aviation sector 114.1 100.8 13.2% 186.9 188.9 188.1 181.7 171.8 150 Leasing 86.0 93.6 8.1% 100 Total MSS revenue 762.4 738.0 3.3% Other income including 50 LightSquared 44.6 97.9 54.4% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 Total revenue 807.0 835.9 3.5% Maritime Land mobile Aviation a S ubscription revenues from allowance plans which can be used to access both voice and data services are recorded entirely within the primary revenue category for that service, a A ctive terminals is the number of subscribers or terminals that have been used to access being data revenues for BGAN and FleetBroadband and voice revenues for IsatPhone Pro.
commercial services except certain handheld terminals at any time during the preceding twelve-month period and registered at 31 December.
Active terminals also include the average number of certain handheld terminals active on a daily basis during the final month of the period.
Active terminals exclude terminals Inmarsat D, IsatM2M, IsatData Pro and BGAN M2M used to access our M2M services.
b A lthough at 30 September 2013 Inmarsat Group Limited reported approximately 92,000 IsatPhone Pro active subscribers, in line with our measure of active terminals we derecognised approximately 9,000 IsatPhone Pro units in December 2013.
Due in part to a specific change to our prepay service terms, a number of IsatPhone Pro terminals were activated in December 2012, but became inactive in December 2013 in line with our definition.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 2013 Financial Review continued The growth of active terminals in the maritime sector is primarily Revenues from voice services in the maritime sector during 2013 due to take-up of our FleetBroadband service, where we have seen were US$72.4m, a decrease of US$7.3m, or 9.2%, compared with active terminal numbers grow by 21% year-over-year.
We have continued to see voice revenues being negatively has been partially offset by the expected decline in active terminals impacted by product mix changes as users transition from our of older services such as Inmarsat B, Mini M and Fleet, where users older services to our FleetBroadband service, where the price of have been migrating to our FleetBroadband service.
The growth of voice services is lower, and also by the substitution effect of voice active terminals in the land mobile sector is predominantly due to usage moving to email and Voice Over IP, which we record as our BGAN service.
In the aviation sector, we have seen growth in data revenues.
SwiftBroadband active terminals of 41%, year-over-year.
Land Mobile sector Maritime sector MSS Revenue 2013 Land Revenue 2013 MSS Revenue 2013 Maritime Revenue 2013 1.
During 2013, revenues from the land mobile sector were During 2013, revenues from the maritime sector were US$431.1m, US$131.2m, a decrease of US$1.2m, or 0.9%, compared with 2012. an increase of US$19.9m, or 4.8%, compared with 2012.
Revenues from data services in the land mobile sector during Revenues from data services in the maritime sector during 2013 2013 were US$109.6m, a decrease of US$8.5m, or 7.2%, compared were US$358.7m, an increase of US$27.2m, or 8.2%, compared with 2012.
The decline in revenues is partially due to troop with 2012.
Growth in our maritime data revenues was primarily withdrawals from Afghanistan, which primarily impacted revenues driven by pricing and service package changes implemented in from our BGAN service.
We estimate that global events including May 2012 and March 2013 and by increased take-up and usage Afghanistan in 2012 contributed US$6.7m more revenue year-overof our FleetBroadband service.
In particular, we saw increased year, compared with 2013.
Underlying land data revenues were also migration to higher volume allowance and unlimited price plans.
marginally reduced year-over-year due to lower usage on certain During 2013, we added 7,241 FleetBroadband subscribers, taking services, predominantly our older GAN service, partially offset by total active terminals to 41,044.
Despite the overall revenue growth growth from our new BGAN M2M and other low data rate services.
reported, customer migration to FleetBroadband from older Revenues from voice services in the land mobile sector during 2013 services continues to be a constraint on our rate of revenue growth were US$21.6m, an increase of US$7.3m, or 51%, compared with as the price of FleetBroadband services is typically lower than the 2012.
The increase is due to growth in revenues from our IsatPhone price of equivalent services on the terminals being replaced.
We Pro service, due to increased usage of active terminals.
In line with also continue to believe that the current economic environment for our measure of active terminals, we derecognised approximately the shipping industry is impacting revenues in the maritime sector.
9,000 IsatPhone Pro units in December 2013.
Due in part to a In addition, the take-up of our retail XpressLink product by ships specific change to our prepay service terms, a number of IsatPhone currently using our existing L-band maritime services impacts the Pro terminals were activated in December 2012, but became wholesale maritime revenues we report for Inmarsat Global, as inactive in December 2013 in line with our definition.
During the the customer revenue on a ship-by-ship basis largely migrates year we activated over 28,000 IsatPhone Pro terminals, but allowing to our Inmarsat Solutions segment.
In due course, after maritime for terminals derecognised during the year in line with our policy, GX services are commercially introduced, such customers will our active base at the end of the year was approximately 86,000 migrate to GX as they are, in general, contractually committed to 2012: 85,000.
Although a larger number of terminals can become do and increase wholesale revenue reported by Inmarsat Global.
inactive in line with our definition, many of these terminals will remain in circulation and may be used again in the future and re-included within active terminals at such time.
In addition, our IsatPhone Pro revenues also benefited from pricing and package changes made in June 2012.
INMARSAT PLC 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Aviation sector Net operating costs Net operating costs for 2013 decreased by 1.2%, compared MSS Revenue 2013 with 2012.
Included within net operating costs for 2013 are net 1.
Aviation 15% costs in relation to our GX programme totalling US$20.3m 2.
Other 85% 2012: US$15.6m and costs in relation to the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement of US$3.3m 2012: US$8.3m.
The table below sets out the components of Inmarsat Globals net operating costs for each of the periods indicated: 2.
Increase US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease Employee benefit costs 127.3 109.4 16.4% Network and satellite operations costs 37.8 39.6 4.5% Other operating costs 94.5 108.7 13.1% Own work capitalised 23.9 19.1 25.1% Net operating costs 235.7 238.6 1.2% During 2013, revenues from the aviation sector were US$114.1m, Impact of hedged foreign exchange rate an increase of US$13.3m, or 13.2%, compared with 2012.
We The functional currency of the Groups principal subsidiaries is have seen strong growth in revenues from our SwiftBroadband the US Dollar.
Approximately 50% of Inmarsat Globals costs are service, year-over-year, in both the business jet and air transport denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Net operating costs in 2013 segments.
However, this increase has been partially offset by a have been impacted by an unfavourable movement in Inmarsat decline in Swift 64 revenues, due to a reduction in usage by certain Globals hedged rate of exchange from US$1.48 1.00 in 2012 government customers, including usage related to reduced activity to US$1.57 1.00 in 2013.
The movement in the hedged rate of in Afghanistan.
exchange in 2013 resulted in an increase in comparative costs of approximately US$7.6m.
We have completed our hedging Leasing arrangements for our anticipated Sterling costs in 2014 and as a result expect our hedged rate of exchange for 2014 to be MSS Revenue 2013 US$1.54 1.00.
Other 89% Employee benefit costs Employee benefits costs for 2013 increased by US$17.9m, or 16.4%, compared with 2012.
The increase is due primarily to additional 1. staff costs due to an increase in total full-time equivalent headcount 2.
611 at 31 December 2013 compared with 572 at 31 December 2012, primarily as a result of investment in our business units.
In addition, there was an unfavourable movement in the Groups hedged rate of exchange and share option costs increased due to additional schemes year-on-year.
Network and satellite operations costs Network and satellite operations costs for 2013 decreased by US$1.8m, or 4.5%, compared with 2012.
The decrease was primarily due to lower in-orbit insurance costs reflecting lower premium rates and a lower total sum insured in line with the depreciation During 2013, revenues from leasing were US$86.0m, a decrease of the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
The decrease was expected and is predominantly due to the termination of certain Other operating costs government aviation and maritime contracts.
Other operating costs for 2013 decreased by US$14.2m, or 13.1%, compared with 2012.
In 2013, we recorded a foreign exchange Other income translation gain of US$1.6m, compared with a foreign exchange Other income for 2013 was US$44.6m, a decrease of US$53.3m, or translation loss of US$5.2m recorded in 2012.
The decrease in other 54% compared with 2012.
The decrease is due to lower revenues operating costs is also due to a provision made for certain doubtful from LightSquared US$12.3m, in 2013, compared with US$60.2m trade receivables in 2012 and reduced advertising and channel for 2012.
In addition, we recorded lower revenue relating to the support costs in 2013, compared with 2012.
In addition, there sale of terminals and accessories predominantly in relation to was a decrease in cost of sales in 2013 due to lower IsatPhone IsatPhone Pro of US$18.7m during 2013, compared with Pro terminal sales year-on-year.
Own work capitalised Own work capitalised for 2013 increased by US$4.8m, or 25% compared with 2012, primarily due to an increase in work capitalised in relation to our GX programme.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 2013 Financial Review continued Operating profit Broadband and Other MSS Increase Broadband and Other MSS revenues primarily consist of sales US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease of VSAT and microwave services, equipment sales, rental and Total revenue 807.0 835.9 3.5% repairs and revenues from our US Government business relating Net operating costs 235.7 238.6 1.2% to the provision of secure IP managed solutions and services to US Government agencies.
It also includes an element of revenues EBITDA 571.3 597.3 4.4% from our Commercial Maritime business unit relating to the EBITDA margin % 70.8% 71.5% provision of maritime VSAT communications services, including EBITDA excluding our XpressLink service, to the shipping, offshore energy and LightSquared and GX 582.6 561.0 3.9% fishing markets.
Other revenues included in this category include EBITDA margin % excluding mobile telecommunications services sourced on a wholesale basis LightSquared and GX 73.3% 72.3% from other MSS providers, network services provided to certain Depreciation and distributors and other engineering services.
The mix of revenues amortisation 157.8 158.1 0.2% in our Broadband and Other MSS sector will change following Acquisition-related the disposal of certain retail energy assets as part of the adjustments 4.6 RigNet transaction.
Impairment losses 1.3 Broadband and Other MSS revenues decreased during 2013 by Operating profit 416.8 439.2 5.1% US$24.7m, or 6.0%, compared with 2012.
The decrease is due As a result of the factors discussed above, Inmarsat Globals primarily to a reduction in revenue from IP managed solutions in operating profit decreased by US$22.4m, or 5.1%, in 2013, our US Government business unit as a result of contract renewals at compared with 2012. lower prices and non-renewals and lower sales of equipment across all business units.
There was also a decrease in VSAT revenue in the energy market.
These decreases were partially offset by increased Inmarsat Solutions results Commercial Maritime business unit revenues as a result of growth in the number of ships served with XpressLink, as well as from Revenues growth in other business units.
During 2013, revenues from Inmarsat Solutions decreased by US$44.8m, or 5.5%, compared with 2012.
The table below sets out Net operating costs the components of Inmarsat Solutions revenues for each of the Net operating costs in 2013 decreased by US$24.9m, or 3.5%, years indicated: compared with 2012, primarily as a result of decreased costs of goods and services as a result of the decrease in revenues, US$ in millions 2013 2012 Decrease especially lower MSS revenue and lower sales of equipment, Inmarsat MSS 380.4 400.5 5.0% and a decrease in operating costs primarily in our US Government Broadband and Other MSS 385.1 409.8 6.0% business as a result of a workforce reduction implemented Total revenue 765.5 810.3 5.5% during the year to help offset the revenue and margin pressure in this business.
Inmarsat MSS Revenue derived from Inmarsat MSS for 2013 decreased by Increase US$20.1m, or 5.0%, compared with 2012.
The decrease in Inmarsat US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease MSS revenue at the Inmarsat Solutions level was driven primarily Cost of goods and a by a combination of lower leasing revenue and lower land sector services 514.9 528.8 2.6% revenue from Afghanistan and other world events.
As Inmarsat a Operating costs 173.4 184.4 6.0% Solutions has a disproportionately higher share of both our Total operating costs 688.3 713.2 3.5% leasing and BGAN business, the negative impact of these factors contributed to an overall decrease in Inmarsat MSS revenues, Allocated as follows: even though Inmarsat Solutions benefited from strong growth in Employee benefit costs 117.5 123.6 4.9% maritime revenues and other factors that contributed to an overall increase in Inmarsat MSS revenues at the wholesale level.
In Network and satellite b addition, in 2013, Inmarsat Solutions aviation revenue decreased operations costs 541.3 555.6 2.6% compared with 2012, due to a reduction in US Government Other operating costs 34.9 38.7 9.8% Swift 64 revenues, partially offset by non-recurring revenue Own work capitalised 5.4 4.7 14.9% recognised during the year of US$4.6m in connection with Net operating costs 688.3 713.2 3.5% the unused portion of a prepaid capacity contract.
a T here has been a change in the allocation of the costs included in cost of goods and services versus operating expenses effective from 1 January 2013, whereby all employee For 2013, Inmarsat Solutions share of Inmarsat Globals MSS costs and network infrastructure operating costs are now included in operating costs revenues was 38%, compared with the 39% share for 2012. instead of costs of goods and services.
The comparative figures for 2012 included in the table above have been restated to reflect this change.
b Includes the cost of airtime from satellite operators, including intercompany purchases from Inmarsat Global.
INMARSAT PLC 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Cost of goods and services Inmarsat plc revenues by business unit Cost of goods and services includes variable expenses such as Commentary on the Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions the cost of airtime and satellite capacity purchased from satellite segmental results has been included within the respective sections operators predominantly from Inmarsat Global, cost of of this report above.
In addition, the table below shows the Groups equipment, materials and services related to our repair and total revenue split by business unit for each of the periods service activity.
indicated: Increase US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease Cost of goods and services during 2013 decreased by US$13.9m, or 2.6%, compared with 2012.
The decrease is predominantly Commercial Maritime 524.8 502.6 4.4% due to the decrease in revenues, especially lower Inmarsat MSS US Government 281.0 352.2 20.2% revenue and lower sales of equipment, partially offset by increased Global Government 127.3 116.5 9.3% costs in our Commercial Maritime business unit related to the Enterprise 295.0 280.1 5.3% increased maritime VSAT revenue.
Total business unit revenue 1,228.1 1,251.4 1.9% Other income Operating costs including LightSquared 33.8 86.4 60.9% Operating costs during 2013 decreased by US$11.0m, or 6.0%, Total revenue 1,261.9 1,337.8 5.7% compared with 2012.
The decrease is primarily due to a workforce reduction in our US Government business unit and a decrease in Commercial Maritime other operating costs, partially offset by increased professional fees Commercial Maritime revenues for 2013 increased by US$22.2m, related to the RigNet transaction and the acquisition of the assets or 4.4%, compared with 2012.
The increase is due to growth in our of Globe Wireless.
FleetBroadband service and price initiatives implemented in May 2012 and March 2013, partially offset by a reduction in revenues Operating loss from older maritime services due primarily to the migration to Increase US$ in millions 2013 2012 decrease FleetBroadband.
There was also an increase in Commercial Maritime VSAT revenue due to take-up of our XpressLink service.
Total revenue 765.5 810.3 5.5% These increases were partially offset by lower equipment sales.
Cost of goods and services 514.9 528.8 2.6% Gross margin 250.6 281.5 11.0% US Government Gross margin % 32.7% 34.7% US Government revenues for 2013 decreased by US$71.2m, or Operating costs 173.4 184.4 6.0% 20%, compared with 2012.
This decrease is primarily due to lower EBITDA 77.2 97.1 20.5% revenue from IP managed solutions resulting from the non-renewal EBITDA margin % 10.1% 12.0% of certain contracts and the renewal of other contracts at lower prices.
There is also lower leasing revenue and lower BGAN and Depreciation and amortisation 74.2 97.1 23.6% Swift 64 revenues as a result of troop withdrawals from Afghanistan, Loss on the disposal of assets 0.1 0.5 80.0% partially offset by non-recurring revenue recognised during 2013 Impairment losses 197.4 94.7 108.4% of US$4.6m in connection with the unused portion of a prepaid Share of profit of associates 2.3 2.1 9.5% capacity contract and growth in our SwiftBroadband service.
Operating loss 192.2 93.1 106.4% As previously mentioned, we are continuing to see pressure on our US Government business unit as a result of ongoing spending Inmarsat Solutions operating loss for 2013 was US$192.2m, an controls being implemented by the US Government and by a increase of US$99.1m, or 106%, compared with 2012.
US$197.4m related increase in competition.
Accordingly, we have experienced of impairment losses were recognised in 2013 2012: US$94.7m : a significant reduction in revenue and margins.
the majority of the Groups impairment losses as discussed on pages 23 and 24 relate to the Inmarsat Solutions segment.
Global Government Global Government revenues for 2013 increased by US$10.8m, In addition, there has been a decrease in EBITDA, offset by a or 9.3%, compared with 2012.
The increase is primarily due to decrease in depreciation and amortisation.
The EBITDA reduction increased BGAN usage relating to events in Sub-Saharan Africa was due primarily to the decrease in revenue and related gross in 2013, growth in our SwiftBroadband services and increased margin, partially offset by the reduction in operating costs.
equipment sales as well as the inclusion of revenues from the Depreciation and amortisation decreased following certain retail acquisition of TC Comms, partially offset by decreases in leasing energy assets being sold to RigNet being transferred to assets and GAN revenues.
held for sale on the balance sheet on 1 August 2013, at which point depreciation ceased.
Depreciation also reduced as a result of the Enterprise adjustment to correct the prior period carrying values of certain Enterprise revenues for 2013 increased by US$14.9m, or 5.3%, assets relating to the former Stratos business.
This was driven by increased aviation revenues as a result of growth in both the business jet and Gross margin consists of revenues less direct cost of goods and commercial air transport business, increased IsatPhone Pro services.
Gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2013 airtime revenues and increased engineering revenue in the have decreased by US$30.9m and 2.0%, respectively, compared energy market.
These increases have been partially offset by with 2012.
These decreases are primarily a result of a reduction lower equipment sales.
in revenue and reduced gross margin percentage in our US Government business unit as a result of lower prices and margins for customer renewals and new revenues.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 2013 Financial Review continued Group Liquidity and Capital Resources The table below shows the condensed consolidated cash flow for At 31 December 2013, the Group had cash and cash equivalents the Group for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012: of US$144.3m and available but undrawn borrowing facilities of US$ in millions 2013 2012 US$906.5m under our Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facility.
We believe our liquidity position is more than sufficient to meet the Net cash from operating activities 597.1 659.5 Groups needs for the foreseeable future.
In addition, we remain Net cash used in investing activities, well-positioned to access the capital markets when needed, to excluding capital expenditure 3.2 15.1 meet new financing needs or to improve our liquidity or change Capital expenditure, including own the mix of our liquidity sources.
work capitalised 580.5 484.0 Dividends paid 200.5 186.6 The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may Net cash used in from financing repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future activities, excluding dividends paid 4.0 175.5 borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or Foreign exchange adjustment 0.2 open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of our borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 191.3 149.3 The Groups net borrowings gross of deferred finance costs are The decrease in net cash generated from operating activities presented below: in 2013, compared with 2012, of US$62.4m primarily relates to As at As at movements in working capital and decreased EBITDA in 2013, 31 December 31 December partially offset by lower cash tax paid.
US$ in millions 2013 2012 EIB Facility 220.3 264.3 The decrease in net cash used in investing activities excluding Ex-Im Bank Facility 543.5 397.6 capital expenditure in 2013, compared with 2012, was US$11.9m.
Senior Notes due 2017 850.0 850.0 During 2013, we paid US$3.2m in respect of current year acquisitions and deferred consideration in relation to previous Net issuance premium 5.9 7.5 investments.
During 2012 we acquired 100% of the outstanding Convertible Bonds 325.6 301.3 shares of NewWave for a total cash consideration of US$7.7m Accretion of principal 3.0 2.9 net of cash acquired and paid US$7.4m of deferred consideration Deferred satellite payments 34.2 28.7 in relation to previous acquisitions.
Bank overdrafts 3.5 Total borrowings 1,986.0 1,852.3 Capital expenditure, including own work capitalised, increased Cash and cash equivalents 144.3 332.1 by US$96.5m in 2013, compared with 2012, primarily due to expenditure on our GX and Alphasat programmes.
Net borrowings gross of deferred finance costs 1,841.7 1,520.2 During 2013 net cash used in financing activities, excluding the payment of dividends was US$4.0m, compared with net cash Net borrowings excluding deferred finance costs EBITDA from financing activities, excluding the payment of dividends of US$175.5m in 2012.
During 2013, we drew down US$145.9m of our Ex-Im Bank Facility.
This cash inflow was offset by the payment of 3.0 US$100.6m of cash interest, a US$44.0m repayment of our EIB Facility and US$5.0m of fees paid in relation to debt drawdowns.
2.8 2.5 By comparison, during 2012, we received gross proceeds of 2.2 2.2 US$212.0m on the April 2012 issue of additional Senior Notes due 2.0 2017, we drew down US$120.3m of our Ex-Im Bank Facility and we received US$3.5m from the issue of ordinary shares in connection 1.5 1.6 1.6 with certain staff incentive programmes.
Offsetting the cash inflow, we paid cash interest of US$97.5m, repaid US$44.1m of our EIB 1.0 Facility, paid fees in relation to debt drawdowns of US$8.1m and paid US$9.9m to repurchase our own shares.
The decrease is As at As at 31 December 31 December primarily due to a reduction in cash generated from operations US$ in millions 2013 2012 and increased capital expenditures, partially offset by reduced Non-current assets 3,356.2 3,099.1 cash tax paid.
Current assets 512.6 653.9 Foreign exchange and treasury policy Total assets 3,868.8 3,753.0 The Board of Directors has delegated to a sub-committee, the Current liabilities 1,038.8 665.7 Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the Non-current liabilities 1,782.2 1,961.4 financial risk management policies applied by the Group.
Details Total liabilities 2,821.0 2,627.1 of financial instruments and policies are shown in note 32 to the Net assets 1,047.8 1,125.9 consolidated financial statements.
Dividends The increase in the Groups non-current assets of US$257.1m is On 24 May 2013, the Company paid a final dividend for the year due primarily to property, plant and equipment additions in 2013 ended 31 December 2012 of 27.45 cents US$ per ordinary share.
as a result of our GX and Alphasat programmes.
Additionally, the On 25 October 2013, the Company paid an interim dividend of Group recognised a deferred tax asset of US$21.3m for the year 17.79 cents US$ per ordinary share in respect of the year ended ended 31 December 2013 2012: US$nil.
Offsetting the increase 31 December 2013. were US$147.0m of impairment losses recognised in relation to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets previously The Inmarsat plc Board of Directors intends to recommend a final recognised when we acquired our Stratos, Segovia and Ship dividend of 28.82 cents US$ per ordinary share in respect of the Equip businesses, and a US$9.4m impairment loss recognised in year ended 31 December 2013 to be paid on 30 May 2014 to respect of our Stratos CGU, following a correction of prior period ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of depreciation.
In addition, our retail tangible and intangible energy business on 16 May 2014.
Shareholders will be asked to approve assets being transferred to held for sale on the Balance Sheet the final dividend payment at the Annual General Meeting to be were impaired by US$27.5m to write them down to their fair value held on 7 May 2014. Dividend payments will be made in Pounds less costs to sell.
Following the impairment, the remaining retail Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London non-current energy assets were transferred to assets held for sale market four business days prior to payment.
In accordance with within current assets on the Balance Sheet, further decreasing the IAS 10, this final dividend has not been recorded as a liability in non-current asset balance.
the financial statements at 31 December 2013.
The total dividend paid and proposed for the year ended 31 December 2013 equals The decrease in current assets of US$141.3m is due predominantly 46.61 cents US$ per ordinary share, a 5.0% increase over 2012, to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents from US$332.1m at and amounts to US$208.8m.
Offsetting the decrease in cash and cash equivalents is US$42.8m of assets classified as held for sale within current assets in relation to our agreement to sell the majority of our retail energy assets to RigNet on the Balance Sheet at 31 December 2013: part of this balance would have been included in non-current assets for the year ended 31 December 2012.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 2013 Financial Review continued The increase in current liabilities of US$373.1m relates primarily As the majority of the customer traffic on our network is mobile in to the reclassification of the liability component of the Convertible nature, the utilisation of our network capacity fluctuates and can be Bonds from non-current to current.
Although our outstanding concentrated based on geography and other factors, such as the Convertible Bonds do not mature until November 2017, holders time of day or major events.
For example, key shipping routes will have the right to require the Company to redeem any or all of the tend to experience higher average traffic volumes than oceanic bonds at their accreted principal amount on 16 November 2014. areas generally.
Our ability to serve concentrated levels of traffic As this has been deemed the most likely maturity date, the is limited by the capacity of our satellites and our ability to move Convertible Bonds have been reclassified to a current liability capacity around our network.
Although we have designed our as at 31 December 2013.
In addition, during 2013, current network to accommodate expected geographic patterns and income tax liabilities increased by US$67.5m to US$100.2m at peak demand, our network could become congested if 31 December 2013.
The increase has been partially offset by a concentrated demand exceeds our expectations.
Such congestion US$48.0m decrease in trade and other payables to US$515.7m on a sustained basis could damage our reputation for service at 31 December 2013. availability and harm our results from operations.
The decrease in non-current liabilities of US$179.2m relates Distribution primarily to a decrease in non-current borrowings of US$211.0m to Although we have a retail operation, we continue to rely in part on US$1,558.0m at 31 December 2013.
The decrease in non-current other third party distribution partners and service providers to sell borrowings is due to the reclassification of the liability component our services to end-users, and they determine the prices end-users of the Convertible Bonds to current liabilities and a US$44.0m pay.
There is a risk that our distribution partners or service providers repayment of our EIB Facility, partially offset by a net US$132.6m could fail to distribute our services effectively, or fail to offer services increase in our Ex-Im Bank Facility made up of US$145.9m drawn at prices which are competitive.
In addition, the loss of any key down under the facility during 2013, offset by US$13.3m reclassified distribution partners could materially affect our routes to market, to current borrowings.
Partially offsetting the decrease in nonreduce customer choice or represent a significant bad debt risk.
current liabilities was a US$32.8m increase in deferred income Alternatively, changes in our business model could affect the tax liabilities to US$174.1m at 31 December 2013. willingness of third party distribution partners to continue to offer our services.
Critical accounting policies Details of our critical accounting policies are in note 4 to the Spectrum consolidated financial statements.
We rely on radio spectrum to provide our services.
This has historically been allocated by the International Telecommunications Principal risks and uncertainties Union without charge, and usage is coordinated with other satellite The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties that may operators in our spectrum band.
In the future, we may not be adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity, financial successful in coordinating our satellite operations under applicable position or future performance, not all of which are wholly international regulations and procedures or in obtaining sufficient within our control.
Although many of the risks and uncertainties spectrum or orbital resources necessary for our operations.
influencing our performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses generally, others are Regulation particular to our operations in mobile satellite services.
Our business is subject to regulation and we face increasing regulation with respect to the transmission of our satellite signals.
Our principal risks and uncertainties are discussed below: The provision of our mobile satellite communication services in however, this summary is not intended to be an exhaustive some countries could cause us to incur additional costs, could analysis of all risks and uncertainties affecting our business.
Some expose us to fines and could limit our ability to provide services.
risks and uncertainties may be unknown to us and other risks and uncertainties, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn Next generation services and satellites out to be material.
All of them have the potential to impact our We are currently in the process of implementing a major business, operations, liquidity, financial position or future investment programme, GX, which includes the deployment of a performance adversely.
global network of three Ka-band satellites.
This programme, which includes satellites, ground network, terminals and related services, Satellites may be subject to delays and or material cost overruns.
There can Our satellites are subject to significant operational risks at launch be no assurance that the development of new satellites, ground or while in orbit which, if they were to occur, could adversely affect networks, or terminals and or the introduction of new services will our revenues, profitability and liquidity.
Although we currently proceed according to anticipated schedules or cost estimates, maintain a level of in-orbit insurance for our Inmarsat-4 satellite or that the level of demand for the new services will justify the fleet including Alphasat and have obtained launch insurance cost of setting up and providing such new services.
A delay in the for our Inmarsat-5 satellites, this may be insufficient to cover all completion of such networks and or services and or the launch or losses if we had a satellite failure.
Even if our insurance cover was deployment or operation of such satellites and or new services, sufficient, delays in building and launching a replacement satellite or increases in the associated costs, could have a material adverse could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and liquidity.
effect on our revenue, profitability and liquidity.
INMARSAT PLC 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Competition Outlook Although Inmarsat is a market leader in MSS, the global As our 2013 results show, our Inmarsat Global business has communications industry is highly competitive.
We face established growth in key L-band services across our market competition today from a number of communications technologies sectors and we believe our competitive position in our core MSS in the various target sectors for our services.
It is likely that we markets is strong.
As a result, we expect growth in our L-band MSS will continue to face increasing competition from other network services to continue in 2014.
With respect to GX, following the operators in some or all of our target sectors in the future, successful launch of the first Inmarsat-5 satellite in December 2013, particularly from existing mobile satellite network operators.
In we expect commercial service introduction on a regional basis in addition, communications providers who operate private networks the middle of 2014.
We therefore expect to begin recognising using VSAT or hybrid systems also continue to target MSS users.
GX revenues in the second half of the year.
While we believe that our L-band product offerings remain We remain confident that the level of our existing customer competitive in the markets we serve and that our investment in commitments for GX services, coupled with strong interest from GX will position us favourably to compete with VSAT providers potential customers and distributors, continue to support our in the future, technological innovation in VSAT, together with expectations for the commercial success of GX.
We are on track increased C-band, Ku-band and Ka-band coverage and to launch two further Inmarsat-5 satellites during 2014, thereby commoditisation, have increased, and we believe will continue completing global coverage by the end of the year.
On this basis to increase, the competitiveness of VSAT and hybrid systems in we reiterate our three-year revenue growth target of 8% to 12% some traditional MSS sectors, including the maritime and aviation CAGR for Inmarsat Global wholesale revenues for the 2014-2016 sectors.
Furthermore, the gradual extension of terrestrial wireline period.
However, as 2014 comprises a transitional year in which and wireless communications networks to areas not currently the GX network is first rolled out and commercialised, we do not served by them may reduce demand for some of our land mobile expect total Inmarsat Global revenue growth reported for 2014 services in those areas.
to be within this target range.
Development of hybrid networks, including Ancillary Terrestrial In 2014, like-for-like results for Inmarsat Solutions will be adversely Component ATC impacted by the full-year effect of lower US Government revenues Proposed ATC services in North America or other countries reported in 2013, but partially offset by growth in other areas, may result in increased competition for the right to use L-band predominately by sales of XpressLink in our Commercial Maritime spectrum, and such competition may make it difficult for us to business unit.
Two other factors influencing results will be the sale obtain or retain the spectrum resources we require for our existing of certain of our energy VSAT assets to RigNet and the acquisition and future services.
We cannot be certain that the development of Globe Wireless.
Within our Inmarsat Solutions segment we of hybrid networks, including ATC, in North America or other expect the net contribution of these transactions to be a positive countries will not result in harmful interference to our operations.
impact on EBITDA within the year.
If we are unable to prevent or mitigate against such interference it could have an effect on our operations, revenues, profitability We expect capital expenditure on a cash basis for 2014 to be and liquidity.
This range includes expenditure related to the fourth Inmarsat-5 satellite and fully reflects changes LightSquared Cooperation Agreement we expect as a result of the recent RigNet and Globe Wireless Our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared may present transactions.
As a result of these factors, we expect leverage us with operational and financial risks.
If fully implemented, the as measured by our ratio of net debt to EBITDA to peak at the Cooperation Agreement will ultimately result in a reduction end of the year at between 3.3 to 3.5 times.
in available L-band spectrum for Inmarsat services over North America and the need for our L-band services to coexist in Simon Ailes North America with ATC services in adjacent frequencies.
Acting Chief Financial Officer Whilst we believe that under the terms of the Cooperation 6 March 2014 Agreement we can continue to operate our services over North America with minimal impact to our users, following the launch of ATC services by LightSquared, there is a risk that our L-band services may be congested, interrupted and or interfered with, which could have an adverse effect on our future L-band service performance in North America.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 37, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board Alison Horrocks Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary 6 March 2014 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33
