Chief Executive Officers review 2013 marked our tenth year as a standalone company.
During this period, we have delivered market-leading shareholder returns, more than doubled our fee revenues and significantly increased returns on capital employed.
Our focus on high-quality growth delivered by our Winning Model, underpinned by Disciplined Execution, has enabled us to drive a good revenue and profit performance again in 2013, despite the ongoing challenging economic conditions in some of our markets.
2013 marked IHGs IHGs Winning Model Furthermore, our annual Trends Report demonstrates the insight and consumer tenth anniversary as IHGs Winning Model is our framework understanding that helps us adapt to, and for delivering superior value creation a standalone company, stay ahead of, the latest trends both within through our brands, our people and our the hospitality industry and more widely.
and was another year systems.
We deliver preferred experiences This years report, 'Creating Moments of for guests through our targeted brand of strong performance.
Trust' the key to building successful propositions, consistently delivered by brand relationships in the Kinship over 350,000 talented colleagues across Economy, suggests that the rise of the world.
Our brands are brought to life technology-aided personalisation means by our people and last year we launched that to continue to win and maintain guest twonew training programmes for hotel loyalty in the future, hotels need to deliver General Managers to ensure the strongest 10%: $668m global, local and personalised appeal for possible connection between what each Operating profit before exceptional items their guests.
brand stands for and the delivery of the brand experience at the front line, Hotel brands that are able to become encouraging General Managers to truly 3D by delivering local, global and behave like Brand Managers.
personal experiences through trusted 2%: $21.6bn global brands will build the trust that Total gross revenue in IHGs System Our brands already deliver superior is needed to sustain lasting relationships Revenue up 4% to $1,903m and consistent experiences, which we with guests and outperform in the future.
measure by continuous guest satisfaction This marks a step-change in the thinking surveys, and which, in 2013 told us that that has dominated the travel and we drove increased guest satisfaction hospitality industry over the last two 6.4m globally across each of our brands.
decades, a period during which hotel New IHG Rewards Club members This drives revenue per available room brands have traditionally concentrated added total members 77.4m RevPAR premiums and, in turn, better on being 2D solely global and local.
We are very proud of the large number of industry An important part of building trust is offering awards our brands win and are focused a strong loyalty programme that is tailored on ensuring that they stay relevant to to guests needs.
To enable us to better meet the changing needs of our guests.
the different needs and occasions of our guests and to strengthen our proposition To help do this, we conduct extensive, to owners, on 1 July 2013, we relaunched industry-leading research to ensure we our loyalty programme with a new name: have the best possible understanding of IHG Rewards Club.
This name clearly our guests needs.
This unique insight is communicates to consumers that all of allowing us to better differentiate our our brands are part of the same IHG brand hotel experiences and is a key driver of family.
No other hotel loyalty programme our ability to continue to grow ahead of gives its members more places to use their the market.
points than IHG, and from July 2013, we also added new benefits, including being the first hotel company to offer free internet to members in all our hotels globally.
Includes three liquidated damages receipts in 2013: $31m in The Americas, $9m in Europe and $6m in AMEA.
Total room revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels not all attributable to IHG.
6 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION InterContinental London Park Lane, London, UK InterContinental New York Barclay, New York, US InterContinental Mark Hopkins San Francisco, California, US Our strong brand portfolio and loyalty During 2013, we opened 237 hotels and Being a responsible business is part of programme are underpinned by our signed a further 444 hotels into our IHGs DNA and it underpins our business channel management strategy which is pipeline, the highest number for five practices, enabling us to make a positive aimed at delivering the highest quality years, reinforcing our already strong contribution to the communities in which revenues to IHG hotels at the lowest brand distribution platform and with it the we operate, as well as building trust and possible cost.
Only the largest companies promise of further high-quality growth.
Having already who understand these trends, and are able met our previous Corporate Responsibility Our commitment to an asset-light model to deliver consistent, locally relevant and targets in 2012, in September 2013, we continues to be core to our strategy and is differentiated guest experiences, will win announced new ones for the five years key to the resilience of our income stream.
These revolve around During 2013, we completed the disposal three core programmes: IHG Green IHG is focused on delivering guest needs of the InterContinental London Park Lane Engage, IHGAcademy and IHG Shelter in a across the entirety of their journey, which and agreed to dispose of an 80 per cent Storm Programme.
These are all tightly we break down into five distinct steps: interest in InterContinental New York tied to our Winning Model, which ensures Dream, Plan, Book, Travel and Share.
Barclay, both with long-term, valuable they are sustainable with full support from Our strategy is led by our multi-lingual management contracts.
This has driven our owners.
websites and mobile apps, call centres, up IHGs return on capital employed, global sales force, strong brand portfolio reduced the capital intensity of the Looking forward, IHGs strategy for and 77.4 million member loyalty business whilst forming a relationship high-quality growth gives us the confidence programme.
These provide compelling with a great new owner.
that we will outperform an industry which experiences that allow guests to use the is set for good growth for many years to In February 2014, we signed an agreement most appropriate channel for their needs.
come, and as such we will continue to drive to sell the InterContinental Mark Hopkins In 2013, IHGs direct and indirect systems superior returns for ourshareholders.
and channels delivered 69 per cent of total room revenues to our hotels.
Disciplined Execution Targeted Portfolio Successful delivery of our strategy for high-quality growth requires Disciplined IHG has hotels in nearly 100 countries and Execution.
IHG is focused on leveraging our territories around the world.
Our growth Richard Solomons scale to drive efficiencies whilst investing strategy is focused primarily on the largest Chief Executive Officer behind the growth of the business.
Talent is and or fastest growing markets in which key to our success and our investment in IHG has a strong existing brand presence, strengthening our employer brand has where our scale and revenue delivery been recognised externally through a systems confer the greatest benefits, and number of accolades, including being where the growth opportunities available awarded 3rd place in The Sunday Times are aligned to our asset-light business 25 Best Big Companies To Work For in model.
With a five per cent share of the UK.
global hotel industry rooms supply and a 12 per cent share of the active industry hotel pipeline, we are well-positioned to continue to take share into the future.
Overview 7 Holiday Inn Pattaya, Holiday Inn Express Bangkok Siam, Holiday Inn Resort Goa, Thailand Thailand India 1952 1991 2007 Holiday Inn Holiday Inn Express Holiday Inn Resort In 1951, Kemmons Wilson recognised a need Launched in 1991, Holiday Inn Express hotels are In 2007, the Holiday Inn brand began a $1 billion for clean, comfortable and affordable places for geared towards the smart business or leisure relaunch and as part of this, Holiday Inn Resort families to stay: he opened the first Holiday Inn traveller who appreciate value but dont want to brand was launched offering the perfect hotel in Memphis, Tennessee in 1952.
Today, the compromise on efficiency and style.
destination for family fun and relaxation.
brand offers the perfect mix of business and pleasure for todays comfort-seeking traveller by 2,258 hotels: 214,597 rooms open 38 properties: 8,818 rooms open providing an inviting, familiar atmosphere where 473 hotels in the pipeline 14 properties in the pipeline guests can relax and enjoy themselves.
1,168 hotels: 212,058 rooms open 249 hotels in the pipeline 8 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Holiday Inn Club Vacations Orlando Orange Lake Resort, Florida, US 2008 Contents Holiday Inn Club Vacations 10 Industry overview Holiday Inn Club Vacations properties offer villas 12 Industry performance in 2013 for families in holiday destinations in the US.
14 IHG at a glance The sub-brand of the Holiday Inn brand was 16 Our business model launched in 2008 by IHG as part of a strategic 17 Our preferred brands alliance with the family of Orange Lake Resorts, 18 Our strategy for high-quality growth the Kemmons Wilson family, who continue 20 Winning Model to own and operate the resorts today.
28 Targeted Portfolio 30 Disciplined Execution 10 properties: 3,701 rooms open 34 Risk management 1 property in the pipeline 38 Key performance indicators KPIs 40 Performance The Strategic Report pages 10 to 53 was approved by the Board on 17 February 2014.
George Turner, Company Secretary Strategic Report 9
