Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Overview Chairmans statement The Board ofboth operating and financial procedures, whistle-blowing On 1 September 2013 we welcomed Dr. Mark Williams to the hotlines, external communication and collaboration with We are a trusted adviser to our Board as Non-Executive Director.
His extensive experience in industry partners and customers.
customers all over the world.
the international oil and gas industry will benefit the Group Our disclosure on ethical compliance in 2013 can be viewed going forward.
Further details of his business experience can inthe Sustainability and CSR report on page 33. befound on page 39.
Our people The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate While Intertek has a unique history and heritage, it is our governance.
In line with the Corporate Governance Code and people who are responsible for the delivery of services to our the 2011 Davies Report, the Board is committed to achieving customers.
With over 36,000 employees across the globe, we aBoard composition which includes, and makes the best use have deep levels of expertise both geographically and across ofdifferences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional our business lines, provided by chemists, engineers, consultants, and industry experience as well as other qualities.
The Boards biologists, inspectors, geologists and auditors, amongst others.
Sir David Reid Diversity Policy can be found on the Companys website.
Chairman With a strategy based on global business line development Sustainability thatis implemented at a country level, we are developing a Intertek is committed to the highest standards of sustainable pipeline of managers to lead the Group through its next phase Here at Intertek, our 36,000 employees, operating in over The Group strategy includes both organic and acquisition business practices, and we are mindful of the impact our of growth.
The Intertek Executive Academy, introduced in 2012, 100countries, have a unique perspective on the challenges related investment to drive sustained growth and shareholder operations have on our communities, employees, customers isalready developing the talent and capabilities of the next and opportunities arising out of the changing global economy.
value across the medium and longerterm.
generation of leaders, with around 50 already enrolled in its As trade patterns change, supply chains lengthen and emerging The Board has a progressive dividend policy, seeking to 18month programme.
These have been selected from across Across these areas, Intertek makes a significant contribution economies grow, we help our customers adapt to these growdividend per share in the medium-term in line with the globe to help drive growth.
We are also always on the toimproving the quality of our customers goods, services shifting dynamics.
Whether it is helping them understand local earnings per share whilst maintaining a minimum cover of 2.5. lookout for new talented individuals, whether from progression, andprocesses across multiple dimensions including: improving regulations, ensuring the quality of their products, assets and An interim dividend of 15.0p per share 2012: 13.0p was paid from acquisitions or externally.
During the year the Groups safety, reliability and durability, social responsibility, reducing processes in their chosen markets, or working with them to to shareholders on 15 October 2013.
The Directors will propose workforce grew by over 1,900 people.
We look forward environmental impact in production, packaging and operations, enter new markets, we are a trusted adviser to our customers afinal dividend of 31.0p per share at the Annual General tohearing their ideas and contributions to the Intertek and assuring supply chains around the globe.
Meeting which will make a full year dividend of 46.0p per share growthagenda.
We have continued to develop our metrics around our impact Our customers range from multinationals, to governments 2012: 41.0p, an increase of 12%.
While some of our emissions relate to Following the success of the first global Group-wide employee and to small local operators, all of whom rely on the expertise The final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2014 for those Intertek offices and operations, they also relate to the work we engagement survey in 2012, we undertook another survey in that Intertek offers across a wide range of industries and shareholders on the register on 23 May 2014. do for our clients, including the testing of fuels, the inspection 2013 to chart progress against the key opportunities identified.
We work closely with our customers to ensure of processes and products and the certification of consumer More information on these opportunities is available in the we deliver a level of quality that is valued by them, every time.
Basic earnings per share were 124.4p, up 15% over the prior year products or other equipment in line with agreed standards.
As Sustainability and CSR report on page 32.
Future surveys will and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 138.6p, up 6%.
Results well as the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions figures quoted for beconducted on a periodic basis.
In 2013, the Group generated revenue of 2,184m, an increase Cash flow and Investment the Top 25 countries in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees for their of 6% over the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions, revenue Intertek continues to generate good cash flow, with 2013 we have, for 2013, also collected Greenhouse Gas Emissions for hard work and endeavour in 2013 which has allowed the Group growth was 4% at constant exchange rates.
Operating profit adjusted cash flow from operations of 394m, an increase the Group in line with the requirements of the Companies Act, to achieve solid progress and lay foundations for continued was 310m, up 9% over the prior year.
Adjusted operating of14% on the prior year.
The Group stepped up the level of see pages 34 and 35. success into the future.
profit increased to 343m, up 2%, and our adjusted operating investment in new laboratories, scientific and IT equipment Within our own operations we are also focused on the health margin was 15.7%.
Excluding acquisitions and disposals, inthe year spending 145m, which represents 6.6% of total Outlook and safety of our employees.
Given the varied nature of the adjusted operating profit was down 1%.
These investments reflect the The Group continues to implement its clear strategy in roles of our employees, and the different environments in increasing opportunities to grow our services and maintain delivering global quality solutions in a market with strong The operating results in 2013 reflected variable market which they operate, we have robust health and safety policies strong long-term value creation for our shareholders.
This, together with experienced conditions in our businesses and in the industries we serve.
in place to ensure staff welfare is always of utmost importance.
management and a sound financial position, means that Strong progress in our emerging markets, including China and Acquisitions Integrity Intertek remains able to capture opportunities to deliver India, was partially offset by cyclical headwinds in a number This year the Group made some significant acquisitions, notably As a provider of independent quality solutions, the integrity and resilient growth and performance despite times of economic ofareas, most notably the minerals sector, our chemicals and Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation GXT and Architectural ethical conduct of our people and businesses is central to our uncertainty.
The Board is confident of delivering further pharmaceutical business in Europe, and in the USA.
These Testing, Inc. ATI which expanded our service offering in values as an organisation and is critical to our customers and growthin the future.
cyclical market conditions impacted upon the Groups growth keymarkets.
In 2013 overall we made seven acquisitions for tothe success of our businesses.
rate and its operating margin during the year.
apurchase price, including debt, of 122m 2012:46m.
Further details are given in the Operating Review by division The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures Earnings and returns to shareholders and in note 10 to the financial statements.
toensure that good business ethics are embedded throughout The Board continues to focus on Total Shareholder Returns our organisation.
Our performance against them is continually through a combination of dividends and through investment in With our strong financial position we will continue to make reviewed and the processes aligned with best practice.
the business where the return is in excess of the Groups cost advantageous bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic Ourcompliance initiatives include internal training and Sir David Reid ofcapital.
The share price increased 2% in the year, and the acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
communications, independent internal and external auditing Chairman Group has delivered Total Shareholder Returns of 85% and 334% over a three and five year period respectively.
2 3 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers review Many of our customers rely on our employees for advice and We continue to open new facilities in regions where our clients guidance in meeting ever changing regulatory or standards are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing Intertek continued to deliver on its requirements, including those necessary for exporting to new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
strategic priorities in 2013: investing international markets and trading with local and global As well as investing organically, in 2013 the Group made a partners.
These prescribe minimum quality standards that in our services, our network, our series of acquisitions to expand the services we can offer.
must be met, and while we can test their products, the value thought leadership and most we offer is in the advice and expertise we provide on how to The Group made acquisitions in the strategically important area meet and exceed these standards.
of non-destructive testing, to support the longer life cycles of importantly our people.
existing infrastructure and the need for on-going preventative We can also help our customers with their internal processes, maintenance.
The most significant of these acquisitions was whether in the design and manufacturing of products, sourcing Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation GXT, a company across the supply chain or in outsourcing non-core activities.
providing services to the oil and gas industry in the USA that Our range of testing, inspection and certification activities can complements existing services being offered in this segment.
Wolfhart Hauser help reduce time to market, reduce costs and increase efficiency.
Chief Executive Officer The Group also acquired Architectural Testing, Inc. ATI, a Our success is based on our established processes and building products testing and certification company in North methodologies, combined with a network of experienced America that will expand the range of services being offered Intertek continued to deliver on its strategic priorities in 2013: growth potential.
We also identified new service offerings people who make it their goal to deliver for the client, every bythe Group in North America, but also help leverage this investing in our services, our network, our thought leadership that will complement our existing services and help drive time, even as the competitive landscape shifts.
knowledge into growth markets overseas.
and most importantly our people to capture the opportunities future growth.
Evolving industries arising from global trade and the development of our In addition to these, the Group also made a series of bolt-on Our mission and strategy As technology changes and new industries emerge, we are differentmarkets.
acquisitions, including Melbourn Scientific Limited in the UK, Our mission is to add value for our customers by helping constantly innovating across our service offering to meet the which expanded our global analytical service offering to the The year in review them achieve their desired level of quality and safety for needs of our customers.
For instance, 2013 saw increased pharmaceutical, biotech and healthcare industries.
Our global 2013 saw a mixed set of results for the Group, with growth their products, assets and processes.
commercialisation of products utilising nanotechnology, which network of consumer goods laboratories was expanded with rates varying across our markets.
We saw strong growth in has applications across a wide range of industries, particularly We support the worlds leading companies across their the acquisition of E-TEST Laboratorio fide Ensaios e Tecnologia China and India, particularly in textiles, while there was slower the pharmaceutical industry.
global supply chains and in each of the local markets in Ltda.
E-TEST, a toy and consumer products testing laboratory growth in the USA, Europe and the minerals sector.
In response which they operate.
Our local knowledge, combined with We contributed to conferences, exhibitions and thought in Brazil, and there were a series of smaller niche acquisitions to these issues we undertook a restructuring exercise in 2012 our global network and expertise, makes the difference for leadership papers across the world to demonstrate our skills ingrowing markets.
and 2013 which sold or closed underperforming operations.
our customers as they strive for quality in an ever more at the forefront of technological innovation.
This enables Due to a longer than expected cyclical downturn in 2013 we Going forward competitive marketplace.
us to identify areas of growth and develop our service have extended our restructuring programme into 2014.
With strategic priorities identified and embedded within the offering accordingly.
The market for quality organisation, we expect the global strategy, implemented on We saw strong growth in emerging markets which now Quality is defined differently across the globe, based on the a local level, to rapidly identify customer issues and deliver Expanding capabilities account for 38% of the total revenue, up from 36% in 2012, economic life cycle of each market and the changing demands solutions.
The industry growth drivers continue to provide the One of the pillars of our strategy is to bring new services to our with China growing very well across most business lines, of customers within that market.
External factors such as catalyst for change, which we expect to drive demand for our customers so that we can help deliver the many dimensions especially technical inspection of energy assets, testing of regulatory changes and global macroeconomic trends also services in the future.
I am confident that Intertek is well placed ofquality that are important to them.
This can range from electricals, clothing and textiles.
Clothing and textiles testing create pressure for improvements in quality across its many to benefit from good underlying growth in 2014 and beyond.
reducing product defects, helping reduce production cycle also grew strongly in India and Turkey.
Slower revenue growth dimensions: from safety and performance through to integrity, times or reducing the environmental impact of a product, came mainly from our USA businesses where strong growth desirability and sustainability.
Our aim is not only to support their in oil cargo inspection and testing for the transport industry existing activities, but also to be ready as the next generation was masked by a decline in services for energy assets such As the emerging middle classes increase their demands ofproducts and services are delivered.
Through a combination as technical inspection and training.
Europe had low overall for quality, particularly in countries such as China and India, of new service initiatives, organic investment and acquisitions, growth with good growth from consumer products and food there will be huge challenges, and significant opportunities, we continue to deepen our capabilities in each of our industries.
testing offset by decline in technical inspection of energy for companies that want to compete in those markets.
Wolfhart Hauser assets, chemical and pharmaceutical analysis and oil and For example, in response to issues and questions around global Chief Executive Officer Each company we work with has their own definition of quality, agricultural cargo inspection work.
Minerals testing declined supply chains in the food industry, and the provenance of being a set of internal and external standards that they look sharply led by the downturn in exploration in Australia, ingredients being included in certain consumer products, we to deliver on a consistent basis to support their brand identities.
SouthEast Asia, Africa and Latin America.
have partnered with the Institute of Food Technologies IFT We provide solutions that help them achieve these standards inits development of the Global Food Traceability Center in the Strategic alignment on a global basis.
USA which aims to provide unbiased, knowledgeable, scientific As reported last year, we have increased our focus on Our customers based advice to the global food industry.
the delivery of our strategy across our key business lines, Interteks customers range from multinational corporations supported by operational excellence delivered on a country We have also constructed new 4G testing facilities in Taiwan to local businesses operating in small niche markets.
During the year we conducted a review of our strategy to take advantage of future developments in the mobile phone a range of services that meet the requirements of these across the business lines and countries in which we operate, industry within the region.
businesses, and all sizes in-between.
and prioritised future investment according to their long-term 4 5
