Chief Executives Statement A thoughtful and disciplined approach toinvesting The past year was transformational for Invensys is now a focused supplier of industrial Invensys.
The disposal of Invensys Rail software, systems and control equipment, for1,742 million has enabled us to deal delivering state-of-the-art technologies to the with our legacy UK pension issues, worlds major industries.
The lines of business recommend a substantial return of cash structure we began to put in place last year has to shareholders and providedus with enabled us to concentrate upon those areas signi cant funds to invest in our future.
with the greatest opportunities for growth and Ithas also allowed us to carry out a pro tability.
We now have signi cant resources reorganisation of the Group, removing our to invest in these businesses which we will do in previous divisional structure and a thoughtful and disciplined manner to enhance providing signi cant cost savings of shareholder value.
Disposal of Invensys Rail Following a strategic review which highlighted the likely consolidation in the global rail signalling market and the limited scope to increase the size of the Invensys Rail division, we decided to refocus the Group around ourindustrial software, systems and control equipment businesses and, accordingly, todispose of Invensys Rail.
In order to give the market greater insight into the performances of our businesses and their value, we have now changed our operating model and financial reporting with the lines of business grouped into fournew business segments Software, Industrial Automation, Energy Controls and Appliance.
Wayne Edmunds, Chief Executive Orders m 1, 700m Orders were 1,700 million 2012:1,759 million, down 3% down 2% at CER Operating pro t m 1 31m Operating pro t was 131 million 2012:93 million, up 41% up 40% at CER 08 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview On 28 November 2012, we announced Reorganisation and revised business Looking ahead thatwe had reached agreement to sell segment reporting As a focused supplier of industrial software, thebusiness to Siemens for 1,742 million Following last years creation of individual systems and control equipment to the worlds onacash and debt free basis.
That price linesof business within our divisions to bring major industries, we will be focusing our represented an attractive value for the additional focus upon our leading brands investment on growing those lines of business business and fully recognised Invensys Rails andtechnologies, the disposal of Invensys which offer attractive long-term growth leading positions in long-term growth markets Rail has enabled us to take the further step prospects with high returns on investment with returns ahead of its peers and wellofremoving our former divisional structure.
The disposal was This reorganisation will give rise to signi cant we will focus on expanding the breadth completed on 2 May 2013 a nd therefore the savings of around 25 million per annum by anddepth of our higher-margin software results of Invensys Rail have been included in April 2014. businesses, which represent a major engine discontinued operations with comparatives offuture growth.
As a result, we have changed our external restated accordingly.
reporting from 1 April 2013 to re ect the new Our long-term sustainable growth will Following completion, a contribution of basis on which information will be reported therefore be driven by maintaining and 400million has been made to the UK internally.
We willgroup our lines of business developing our leading technologies: Pension Scheme and a further payment of into four new business segments.
This focusingon project and commercial 225 million has been made into a reservoir grouping brings together businesses with executionexcellence: developing our portfolio trust.
As a result of these payments, the similar economic characteristics, operating through bolt-on acquisitions: supporting and previous fide cit reduction payments of margins, market drivers and technologies as expanding our customer base and growing 40-47million per annum have ceased and well as providing greater transparency as to our business in emerging markets.
it is anticipated that no further contributions the true value of ourmarket-leading Operationally and nancially, Invensys is will be payable into the Scheme for the businesses: nowwell placed to capitalise on markets foreseeable future.
More details of the pension Software which consists of the software withlong-term structural growth prospects arrangements are contained in the Financial businesses previously within Invensys and deliver further value for shareholders.
Operations Management and includes our TM As previously announced, we now intend to Wonderware, SimSci and Avantis return 625 million of cash to shareholders brands.
and information on the return of cash will be Industrial Automation which consists set out in a circular to shareholders which will ofthe systems businesses of our Foxboro be issued as soon as practicable.
The return distributed control systems DCS and of cash is subject to the approval of Invensys Triconex safety systems with the addition shareholders at a General Meeting which is of the Foxboro measurement and expected to take place in June 2013.
It is Wayne Edmunds instrumentation products previously intended that shareholders will be able to elect Chief Executive within the equipment business of Invensys to receive their cash as income, capital or Operations Management.
15 May 2013 deferred capital or a combination of the three.
Following the return of cash, we are proposing Energy Controls which consists of a share capital consolidation that, subject to theEurotherm and IMServ businesses market uctuations, will result in the share previously included within the equipment price being returned to approximately the business of Invensys Operations same level as before the return of cash.
Management, together with the residential heating and commercial businesses that were formerly part of Invensys Controls.
Appliance which consists of the Appliance controls line of business previously within Invensys Controls, together with the appliance replacement parts business formerly within Wholesale, also part of the former Invensys Controls.
Although the commentary on the past years performance contained in this Annual Report and Accounts is based upon the previous reporting structure, we will be using these new business segments for future reporting.
The past year s performance by new business segment, together with an estimate of the allocation of cost savings from the Group reorganisation is shown on page 23 in the Financial Review.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
