Chief Executives review Key highlights The combination of AMEC and 3 EPS up 11 per cent Foster Wheeler would be financially Very strong cash conversion, demonstrating and strategically attractive.
I believe ourcontinuing financial discipline it would be a compelling proposition Record order book of 4.1 billion positions for our shareholders, customers usforgrowth in 2014 andemployees.
Recommended offer for Foster Wheeler AG announced inFebruary 2014 Samir Brikho Improvements in a number of key safety Chief Executive measures.
Before joining AMEC, I talked to those who knew Our customers thecompany well.
They spoke of many things I now Our vision is that by sustainably delivering excellence, recognise myself: high-quality people, expertise, strong weinspire trust and loyalty in our customers.
But back then there was no looking to create strong customer relationships, coherent vision.
That has now changed and since 2006 becoming and remaining a trusted partner.
we have been on a journey of improvement, increasing 1 We have built an impressive pedigree of US solar projects.
margins and improving earnings per share fivefold.
Sempra US Gas & Power is one example of a new Wehave generated substantial amounts of cash and customer in 2013 and the solar project they awarded have spent over 700 million on acquisitions to support usis seven times larger than any we have completed growth and returned some 1 billion to shareholders.
Its a strong history but I am never satisfied.
In contrast, we have been working with KNPC since Byimplementing our Vision 2015 strategy we have 2007providing project engineering and management strengthened our position in our four core markets, services PEMS at their refineries.
In 2013 following improved our geographic footprint and enhanced the acompetitive tender, we re-won the contract with capabilities we provide to our customers.
We need to do anenhanced scope.
We are also providing project more of this as we look to 2015 and beyond and I believe management consultancy PMC services for KNPC the acquisition of Foster Wheeler would support this goal.
onanew refinery at Al Zour, Kuwait.
Let me mention our 2013 results then focus on some examples of our progress towards Vision 2015.
2013 results 1 Compared to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations As expected, 2013 was a year of contrasts in our markets.
before intangible amortisation and exceptional items as reported in Our business model and reputation for excellent delivery the 2006 annual report, of 14.5 pence 2 Excluding the impact of currency translation and acquisitions protected us from much of the uncertainty and helped 3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 2 ensure that underlying revenues excluding incremental before intangible amortisation and exceptional items procurement were broadly flat.
Adjusted earnings per 4 Operating cash flow as a percentage of EBITA for continuing 3 share of 87.2 pence were 11 per cent higher and we operations before intangible amortisation and exceptional items, butincluding joint venture EBITA.
Operating cash flow as defined converted this to cash at an impressive rate, with cash onpage 39, note 3 4 conversion of 99 per cent.
Ian McHoul, CFO, discusses 5 Total recordable case frequency rate the results in more detail on page 39.
6 All injury frequency rate 08 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Earnings per share3 Vision 2015: a snapshot We first announced our Vision 2015 growth strategy inlate 2009: 87.2p 11% By focusing on our customers, our people and This compares with 49.6 pence in 2009 when we started delivering the AMEC Way, we want to create this part of our journey sustainable growth Achieving We are now looking beyond 2015 Our key measure of success is the improvement see page 11 Collaborating Improving in earnings per share between 2009 and 2015.
2015 and beyond Growing Our people Our markets Many people join us to create a lifelong career: others We said at the start of 2013 that we anticipated ongoing workon specific projects.
Our business in Europe economic uncertainty and more challenging conditions recruited almost 6,000 people in 2013, despite resourceincertain areas and that is exactly what we found.
constrained markets, to work on projects such as the The downturn in global mining markets has been widely hook-up and commissioning of ConocoPhillips new reported and our oil sands business in Canada has come Jasmine facilities in the North Sea.
Elsewhere, we have off the peaks seen in 2010 as the Kearl project moves also recruited successfully for project ramp-ups in the intoproduction.
In contrast, our conventional oil & gas Middle East.
Thiseffort planning, identifying, recruiting business has seen good growth, led by the UK North Sea and training people is crucial to our success, ensuring and boosted by new contract wins in the Middle East.
we deliver the skills our customers need, at the time they OurUS renewable business has been strong, particularly need them.
in solar, and further growth is expected in 2014.
There Our employees tell us there are three main reasons why have been positive signs around UK nuclear new build, they join and stay with us: opportunity, excellence and though AMEC is unlikely to see significantly more activity belonging.
These are the core of our employer brand until the EU completes its review.
Why AMEC, which is also recognised externally.
In 2013 We have deliberately diversified our business across we were ranked one of the top 20 most in demand energy and power markets and this remains our strategy.
Our history is reflected in thecomposition of our employee base.
The commitment Our global reach we formalised in 2013, to diversity and inclusion, is an Our simplified geographic organisation has now been important stepping stone on our journey to become inplace for a little over 12 months.
the cost savings are the increased collaboration and newgrowth opportunities being created.
For example, Never compromising on safety is one of our four core 5 6 inOctober we were awarded the front end loading study values.
In 2013 TRCFR and AIFR both reduced again, for Vales underground mine at Voisey Bay in Canada.
to0.26 and 1.56 respectively per 200,000 exposure hours.
This isour first major contract for this customer: It is clear we cannot afford complacency.
Our target for expandsour position in underground mining, an lost time incidents LTIs is zero yet we had 14 LTIs in objectiveof our Vision 2015 strategy: and is being theyear.
workedon collaboratively by employees from our We continue to work closely in and for our local powerand E&I businesses, from Canada and the US.
communities, including donating over 400,000 to matchthe fundraising efforts of our employees.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 09 Chief Executives review continued Our global reach continued Our way of working We still need to create a sustainable position in our We are continually looking for improvements in how Growth Regions.
Our business in the Middle East wework.
performed strongly in 2013 and ended the year with Our new shared services centre in the Philippines was arecord order book, but conditions elsewhere were officially opened in December, when, in line with local moredifficult.
Creating a greater scale is one of our custom, a priest blessed the building.
As well as objectives from an acquisition such as Foster Wheeler.
consolidating finance and HR administrative activities Let me touch on Foster Wheeler here.
We believe this forour Growth Regions business, our global IT support acquisition could significantly accelerate implementation will be run from this office.
Its mid and downstream oil & gas Our High Value Delivery Centre HVDC in Jakarta has business is complementary to our existing upstream been working closely with offices elsewhere in the world, position and is well positioned to gain from the growth including with Aberdeen on an FPSO vessel conversion anticipated in North America.
Its position in Growth for one of our clients.
The client gained from the use of Regions is also good and would provide us with more multiple time zones and a lower overall cost and has scale in the region.
As is shown in more detail on page 3, subsequently awarded us more work.
Elsewhere our the financial characteristics of the deal are also expected office in Shanghai has been supporting the delivery of to be very attractive.
work on the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia, working with We would expect this deal to close in the second half colleagues in Vancouver.
Our sustainable approach is a part of what differentiates us in the eyes of our customers.
In 2013 we have made Our expertise further improvements in the reporting of our carbon We continue to work right across the life cycle of our emissions see page 26. clients assets and believe our customers increasingly value the flexibility this offers.
Again, let me pick out 2015 and beyond justacouple of examples.
I am proud of what we have achieved so far and thank We have seen recent strength in brownfield operations allmy colleagues for the hard work and contribution onprojects such as the Montrose BLP contract for theyhave made to AMECs success.
Talisman where work is due to be completed in 2016.
But as I said previously, we cant stand still.
Weare exploring how to export this capability from theUK North Sea to other parts of the world.
The proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler is an exciting prospect.
Irrespective of what happens about acquisitions, We acquired qedi in 2011 for its expertise in specialist we are focused on collaboration, continual improvement completions and commissioning services.
Since then and growth within our markets.
Thats how we will thebusiness has grown threefold and in 2013 contributed achieve sustainable success to 2015 and beyond.
to projects for BP, TAQA, GDF SUEZ and many others.
Samir Brikho Chief Executive 13 February 2014 10 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
