Strategic report CHIEF ExECUTIvES STATEMENT ITE has delivered a good trading performance and established a strong business base in Asia.
Headline profit before tax m 2013 59.4 2012 53.0 2011 51.4 2010 36.6 2009 45.8 12% 19.3p Headline diluted EPS ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Groups performance this year Trading conditions in most of our The Group has now established a markets were good throughout ITE has delivered a good trading strong business base in Asia and the performance with increased revenue the year with the Russian regional acquired businesses are performing offices of Siberia and Krasnodar, reflecting good trading conditions well.
In December last year we in most of its markets and a strong together with Azerbaijan all putting acquired a 28.3% minority stake in strong performances and all result from its biennial Moscow in ABEC, a major Indian exhibition International Oil and Gas Exhibition.
reporting revenue growth of more business, with an option to take a than 10%.
Trading conditions in the ITEs main focus this year has been controlling position in 2015.
We have on the development of its business in other Central Asia markets were also spent this year developing the working good and supported strong revenue the Asian markets of India, South East relationship with ABECs management Asia and most recently China.
The UK, Turkish and Ukrainian and establishing where we can best businesses performed less well.
The acquisitions and investments in Asia cooperate between our respective have had a relatively small effect on UK and Ukraine were hampered by businesses.
This has resulted in a difficult economic conditions and repositioning of our existing Indian this years results, but will make a more significant contribution in the future.
the Turkish business was impacted business which now runs alongside by space constraints on its largest the ABEC business.
In January of this Revenues for the year of 192.3 million events and a weaker Turkish Lira.
year we acquired a small maritime event alternating between Singapore 2012: 172.3 million represent a 12% increase over last year and are derived The main factors affecting Group and Hong Kong, to form the base 2 profitability this year are summarised for the launch of an ITE transport from volume sales of 793,000m, marginally less than last year.
Organic in the profit bridge on page 13. infrastructure brand in Asia, TransAsia.
Also in January we acquired a 75% revenue growth was 12.3 million with the net biennial pattern accounting for Development of the business majority position in Tradelink, owner The main objectives for the Group ofMetaltech, the leading metalworking an additional 3.9 million of revenue, and first time contribution from this year were securing the position of event in Malaysia.
With the retention ITEs premiere Moscow construction of the existing management, this event acquisitions a further 3.8 million.
Gross profits increased by 10.4 event, Mosbuild, in its new competitive has the potential to be a platform for environment and continuing with the growing other metalworking events million, of which circa 3.8 million is attributable to the net biennial business expansion programme in Asia.
In April we agreed terms to form a joint venture with the owners pattern.
The good trading result was achieved during a period of higher Mosbuild performed well this year, of ECMI, a Malaysian based business selling more space than last year and running its Beauty and Laboratory levels of planned investment made in the management and infrastructure growing its revenue base, but delivered events in Malaysia, Indonesia and slightly lower profits than last year.
This joint venture provides of the Group.
This reflects both the full year costs of businesses More importantly visitor and exhibitor ITE with a fast track route to launching research confirmed that its positioning exhibitions across South East Asia.
acquired last year and supporting the Groups expansion in Asia.
as the must attend construction It has already helped generate the event had not been affected by launches of Paperex from India in Mosbuild, the Groups largest and most the recent change in venue and Indonesia, and Beauty and Oil& Gas format of the event.
ITE is continuing events in Myanmar for next year.
In the profitable event performed well this year in a competitive environment, to invest in the event to ensure autumn our UK fashion business MODA Mosbuild retains its current status.
agreed terms to cooperate on a and delivered volume and revenue growth.
The Groups other large events recently launched event for menswear in Hong Kong.
In November we were traded well, but the main drivers of organic growth in revenues and able to announce the formation of a gross profits were the next tier of medium sized events and the regional offices as the Groups portfolio becomes increasingly diversified.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Strategic report CHIEF ExECUTIvES STATEMENT CoNTINuED joint venture to develop exhibitions next few years.
Recently we have ITEs performance against its strategic priorities is set out below: in the coatings and surface finishing seen new regional exhibition centres industries by investing 33 million in developed in Ekaterinburg and i build on existing positions of a 50% shareholding in the Chinacoat Novosibirsk which have helped to exhibition business.
As well as generate renewed levels of growth in market leadership: ITEs existing positions of market acquiring a stake in one of the leading the local exhibition businesses.
Over exhibitions in the world in this growing the course of 2014 the Expoforum leadership are founded on its ability to generate international sales, its sector, the purpose of the joint venture venue will open in St Petersburg.
2 is to use the Chinacoat brand and data Thisis a major new venue of 50,000m recognised brands, its local office infrastructure and its longstanding to support a roll out of other events gross with conference facilities that across the manufacturing countries will present new opportunities for the relationships with venues.
ofAsia, and into the end user markets further development of exhibitions and of Russia and the CIS.
ITE is committed conference businesses in the North International sales strength ITEs ability to generate international to building a network of offices across West of Russia.
In the South West, Asia and now has representation in ITEs Krasnodar office has signed an sales has differentiated it from its local competition in Russia and the Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and on agreement to be the principal user the South Eastern Chinese seaboard.
of a new venue, which will add over related CIS markets.
Through its 2 subsidiary sales offices the Group has 30,000m of quality exhibition space It is important for ITE to invest in in the city.
The new venue should established a loyal customer base and a geographic reach which is hard to building the brand and profile of its be completed and ready for use by events to support the development 2016.
The Group is well positioned replicate for competitors.
In 2013 the total net metres sold by the Groups of portfolios along vertical industrial to participate in the growth that lines.
This aspect of our strategy these investments in local exhibition international sales offices increased 2 by 15% to 133,000m.
This represents was exemplified by the acquisition facilities are expected to generate.
in October of Beauty Eurasia, the circa 25% of the Groups 2013 revenues, an increase on 2012 reflecting the principal event serving the beauty ITEs objectives and strategy industry in Turkey.
Aligned with ITEs principal objective is to create Groups investment in buildingup its international sales presence last the beauty events we acquired abusiness with sustainable growth in Ukraine last year and the ECMI inheadline earnings per share.
Its year, including opening a new sales office in Malaysia to target potential beauty exhibitions run in Malaysia, strategy is to develop positions of Indonesia and Vietnam, ITE now has an market leadership in the exhibition customers from South East Asia.
Approximately 11% of revenues were opportunity to build a strong presence business in emerging and developing in the beauty sector in more markets.
sold by the Groups London office, 4% by its German office, 3% by its Chinese In Russia, the benefits of common Four priorities underpin ITEs strategy: office and 3% by its Turkish office.
brands and systems developed over Build on existing positions of the last few years are now being marketleadership ITEs international brands ITE has established strong brand realised with an active programme Expand into new sectors and of replicating and crossmarketing geographies with potential for identities in certain exhibition sectors.
In particular, the Build brand in events into and across the regional strong market positions markets.
New opportunities are Enhance and improve our construction, the Oil & Gas events brand, the ITE Travel exhibition and expected to arise from the expansion exhibitionbrands in regional venue capacity over the Invest in developing our people World Food brands all have strong reputations with customers as leading events in the Russian and CIS markets ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements earned through more than fifteen years 2012 to 2013 headline PBT bridge of sustained good performance.
The 80 Group is working to ensure that the new construction businesses in the Group, notably in Turkey and India, are 70 aligned with ITEs historic construction brand and that all the benefits available 5.5 59.4 0.9 1.5 60 3.5 3.8 from sharing best practice are realised.
53.0 The acquisition of Beauty Eurasia 50 and ECMI has created an opportunity for ITE to build an internationally recognised brand in this sector.
40 Thereare also a number of developing brands in security, transport, 30 packaging, printing and mining events which have prospects to support 20 new events in different markets.
Building ITEs local office 10 infrastructure ITEs brands have built their reputation 0 through sustained delivery of 2012 Net Acquisitions Timing Overheads, Organic 2013 successful exhibitions to customers.
headline biennial FX and growth headline PBT e ect nancing PBT The foundation of this is in ITEs local offices which now employ over Timing refers to changes in the date of recurring events which causes them to skip or occur twice in a financial year.
Local offices generate the local sales, reputation and visitor participation of the event as well as managing technical staging of the exhibitions.
Critically they own and develop the database of local visitors who make the exhibition successful for the exhibitors.
In its core markets, ITEs local offices have always been a competitive advantage over other international exhibition organisers and a barrier to entry for new organisers wishing to run events.
ITE will continue to develop strong local offices as part of its exhibition business in new markets.
The Group has an integration programme for new offices acquired into the ITE network and is increasing its investment in the infrastructure that underpins these ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 m Strategic report CHIEF ExECUTIvES STATEMENT CoNTINuED offices and in staff training.
The Group This year the Group has expanded its iv Invest in developing our people: has high rates of employee retention We have made some good progress business presence into India, South in its offices, and supports this by its East Asia and China.
In so doing it has in developing the strength and depth commitment to having widespread of the leadership and management acquired expertise in new sectors equity ownership currently more some of which have potential in ITEs teams in the year as well as improving than 60% of staff participate in the communication between the core markets, and also made it possible some form of equity scheme.
for the Group to run its existing brands different offices.
We have improved our talent management processes, in the new markets.
The launch of Maintaining venue relationships TransAsia, Paperex Indonesia and Oil including identifying and addressing ITE has always enjoyed longstanding individual development needs.
& Gas Myanmar are good examples of relationships with the venues that the opportunities created by access Our rolling programme of internal host its exhibitions.
In its core markets senior management and functional to new marketplaces.
In time the ITE has supported the development Group will benefit from extending the conferences has been a huge success of venue facilities which in turn has as has the leadership development newly acquired Chinacoat and Beauty helped the Groups exhibitions to portfolios back into its core markets.
We have also continued prosper.
The Group has always sought to extend and develop internal to establish rights to run its main As the Groups acquisition activity communication between offices exhibition themes in its partner venues and opened up communication over the last two years has opened at the time of its choice and ITE has up access to new markets, there are by functional management i. e. continued to work on maintaining and connecting staff lines across the now increasing synergies and benefits improving the venue relationships to be gained from strengthening different offices such as construction that underpin its business.
Most of marketing IT and finance.
its industry portfolio in each sector.
ITEs major events have agreements TheGroup aims to increasingly focus which provide for venue facilities ITEs strategic objectives are its acquisition activity on building for at least three years ahead.
This portfolio strength and leadership unchanged.
We have been successful year ITE has agreed to support the in establishing positions in new in exhibition sectors creating development of a new venue in stronger more defensible business markets and the future accent will be Krasnodar, where ITE will have the more orientated towards development positioning for its exhibitions.
exclusive rights to run exhibitions.
of brands and industry verticals in order to leverage the potential iii Enhance and improve our ii Expand into new sectors and exhibition brands: synergies of the newly acquired assets.
geographies with potential for strong The Groups management has been market positions: working to improve the strength of In existing markets this strategy means ITEs existing international brands.
targeting new sectors or regions in This is being achieved by introducing which to acquire or develop exhibitions product improvements to enhance where there is potential for the customer experience and ensuring participation of international exhibitors.
consistency in the presentation and Russell Taylor Chief Executive officer In new markets, ITE is targeting the promotion of similar events in ITEs 2December 2013 development of exhibition businesses vertical industry sectors.
The Groups where there is clear opportunity brand development projects have for strong future growth.
covered all aspects of product quality, naming, character, toneofvoice and graphic designs associated with events in the Groups largest portfolios.
The improvements will deliver numerous benefits, including increasing the global recognition of ITEs brands and enabling the Group to launch cloned events into new territories.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14
