Business review Chief Executives letter Justin King, Chief Executive Awards the fifth time in seven years as well Dear Shareholder, as Convenience Chain of the Year for the third year running.
We have delivered good sales and profit growth, with significant market With 23 million customer transactions a week, an increase of over 800,000 on last year, we believe outperformance.
We are succeeding our promise to help people Live Well For Less is because we work hard to understand more relevant than ever.
Our customers trust us to make their lives simpler and easier and to help them what our customers want, and we save time and money.
They are confident about the quality, provenance and integrity of the products offer them quality and value every day they buy from us across all price brackets.
through our promise to help people We have continued to address price perception.
We will continue Brand Match, now in its second year, is reassuring to invest in creating the best quality customers that they wont pay more for brands at Sainsburys than at either Asda or Tesco.
We own-brand products, delivering firstare also able to offer meaningful and targeted promotions through Nectar the UKs largest loyalty rate service and bringing our food, scheme and our coupon-at-till technology.
Nearly clothing and general merchandise 12 million Sainsburys customers regularly use their Nectar loyalty card when they shop with us and to more customers.
the programme remains a source of considerable competitive advantage.
A year like no other Great food This truly has been a year like no other.
The Queens Our great food offer, in particular the strength and Diamond Jubilee festivities were not dampened breadth of our own-brand products, is a key driver of by the great British weather, and the endeavours growth and loyalty.
Own-brand is outperforming the of our Olympians and Paralympians uplifted and market as well as many branded equivalents, with inspired us as a nation.
We were enormously proud most customers buying across our ranges from to play our part in both events as a partner for the basics to by Sainsburys and Taste the Difference.
Queens Diamond Jubilee Beacons and Thames River The relaunch of our core by Sainsburys range, Pageant, and by becoming the first-ever Paralympicwhich accounts for nearly 40 per cent of sales, is only sponsor of the London 2012 Paralympic Games.
now complete, with many products new or improved.
It has been very well received by our customers For Sainsburys too, it has been a year like no other and is growing ahead of our major competitors as we helped more customers than ever before to comparable products.
With 33 consecutive quarters of like-for-like sales growth our market share is at its Compelling general highest level for a decade and we are outperforming merchandise & clothing our major competitors.
Our clear and proven longterm strategy continues to drive good sales and Sales of general merchandise and clothing continue profit growth.
to grow at more than twice the rate of food over the year.
We offer customers high street quality and Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer, where style at supermarket prices and this is proving to people love to work and shop.
Our success rests be very successful.
We also know that our non-food on the 157,000 colleagues working in our stores, offer builds overall customer loyalty and, with only depots and support centres.
It is due to their hard around a third of the population up from 11 per cent work and dedication that we were once again named five years ago living within a 15 minute drive of our Supermarket of the Year at the Retail Industry full non-food range, there are plenty of opportunities for future growth.
4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Complementary channels & services Market share Source: Kantar Worldpanel total till roll for the 52 weeks to 17 March 2013 Our long-standing investment in complementary channels and services continues to deliver.
The amount customers spend more than doubles when they shop in our supermarkets, convenience Tesco stores and online.
Sainsburys Locals now account Asda for nearly a third of the UKs convenience market growth with sales of over 1.5 billion and year-onyear growth of over 17 per cent.
Annual sales in our groceries online business are at nearly 1 billion and continue to grow at around 20 per cent.
Morrisons Sainsburys Bank has enjoyed another successful year, with our share of joint venture post-tax profit up 38 per cent to 22 million and an eight per cent increase in active customer accounts over the Co-op year.
We have reached an agreement to take full ownership of Sainsburys Bank by acquiring Lloyds Waitrose Banking Groups 50 per cent shareholding for 248 Other million, which comprises cash consideration for Lidl Aldi the shares of 193 million and the purchase of 55 million of loan stock.
Developing complementary 16.8% channels and services is a core part of Sainsburys Sainsburys long-term strategy for growth and our ownership of the Bank will enable its full potential to be realised.
Developing new business and organisations to ensure that the next generation Our targeted programme of new business of Paralympic athletes get the support and coaching development continues, with Sainsburys pharmacies they need.
Building on our support of British now open in over 270 stores and in three hospitals.
Athletics Paralympic programme, I am delighted Sainsburys Energy has achieved an 83 per cent that we are sponsoring the Sainsburys Summer increase in customers over the year and we are Series three world-class athletics events being finding new ways to offer a range of digital products held this summer in Birmingham and at the Queen and services, from eBooks to Mobile Scan & Go.
Elizabeth Olympic Park in London.
Growing space & Being a great place to work is an essential part of creating property value our business plan.
This is not only important to us We continue to deliver against our space growth but also to our customers they consistently tell plans, with the return to what we consider to be a us that how we treat our colleagues is their number prudent and steady state of growth.
This year we one priority for corporate responsibility.
This opened just over one million sq ft of space adding 14 year we have seen our highest levels of colleague new supermarkets, 87 convenience stores and eight engagement and commitment and we were extensions to our estate.
Our property portfolio is recognised as the Employer of the Year by now valued at 11.5 billion and we generated 66 Retail Week.
million of property profit from sale and leaseback activity in the year.
In addition, Sainsburys was once again rated global sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and continued to be listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
Our values make us different We know that our values make us different from Looking forward other supermarkets, and our customers and colleagues expect Sainsburys to do the right thing.
Looking forward to the year ahead, whilst the Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, published in 2011, lays economic climate is likely to remain challenging, out 20 commitments, each linked to one of our five we are well positioned to succeed for you, our core values.
The plan provides a clear focus to our shareholders, through the continued delivery of corporate responsibility programme from doubling our long-term strategy for growth and by helping the amount of British food we sell, to positive our customers Live Well For Less.
In November, we updated on the progress we have made so far and further information is provided in this annual report.
Our values continue to be a source of long-term Justin King sustainable advantage and great pride.
One example Chief Executive is our involvement in the London 2012 Paralympic Games.
From the start we aimed to be much more than a sponsor and to play our part in ensuring the success of the Games, as well as creating a lasting legacy.
Our legacy programme has already contributed 2 million of funding for schools, clubs J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5
