Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements CEOs review 7 2013 2012 2013 Group performance $m $m Change Total revenue 7,064.2 6,828.1 3% Total EBITA 533.0 459.1 16% EBITA margin % 7.5% 6.7% 0.8pts Profit before tax 412.8 361.4 14% Basic EPS 81.4c 71.4c 14% 2 Adjusted diluted EPS 98.6c 85.2c 16% Total dividend 22.0c 17.0c 29% Since my appointment as CEO 6 ROCE 19.4% 19.3% 0.1pts I have delivered a consistent message to our people that our Note: The analysis above includes revenue and EBITA related to the Wood Group GTS businesses which will transfer to the gas turbine joint venture with Siemens.
As required by accounting standards, the results from these businesses have Core Values are vital for our future been included in discontinued operations in the Group Financial Statements for 2013. success, and that we can be even better if we increase collaboration across our business.
debt at the end of December was $310m and Safety & Assurance average net debt during the year was $258m.
The safety of our people, and those affected by Net debt excludes a receipt in January in what we do, is our top priority.
Tragically we had respect of a recovery in relation to a previously a fatality during the year in our Pyeroy business terminated contract in Venezuela which after in Wood Group PSN.
We have assessed, and costs, payments to non-controlling interests and are acting on, the lessons learned.
In 2013, we taxation is expected to be around $40m.
saw some improvement in our total recordable case frequency TRCF and our lost work case frequency LWCF remained relatively flat.
During Group review 2013 we established a Board-level Safety & Since my appointment as CEO I have focused Bob Keiller, CEO Assurance committee to provide enhanced on a number of key issues.
I have delivered a visibility and awareness of our performance, and consistent message to our people that our Core we extended our Safety Leadership Programme Values are vital for our future success and that we to a wider audience.
can be even better if we increase collaboration across our business.
I have been developing our Financial performance leadership team on the Executive Committee 2013 represents another year of good growth and, together, we have considered the Groups for the Group with Total EBITA up 16%.
In Wood strategy which remains sound and positions us Group Engineering, revenue increased by 11% well for the longer term.
We are predominantly and EBITA increased by 12% reflecting growth an upstream oil & gas services business and our in all three segments: Upstream, Subsea & intention is to broaden and deepen the services pipeline and Downstream.
In Wood Group PSN, we can offer in this sector.
strong EBITA growth of 28% included a full We have also reviewed all parts of the Group from year contribution from the Duval and Mitchells three perspectives: risk profile, current and future acquisitions in the US completed during 2012, financial performance and strategic fit with the although performance overall was impacted Group overall, and this has resulted in a number by continuing losses in Oman where we are of actions covered below.
now agreeing a transition plan to exit.
In Wood Group GTS, revenue fell 19% and EBITA fell I have previously highlighted the need to remain a 9%, with Maintenance up slightly on 2012 and lower risk, predominantly reimbursable business.
a lower contribution from Power Solutions.
Net During the year we tightened our controls around More on page 12 Financial review 15 Our Core Values 24 Governance 26 Our Board of directors 14 Footnotes John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 8 CEOs review continued contracts that contain lump sum or fixed-price better facilitate our collaborative efforts.
We are Outlook elements, to ensure that we keep our overall increasingly focused on deepening customer I would like to thank Allister for his valuable risk profile within acceptable levels.
Typically, relationships at a Group level and this is resulting support during 2013 and for his extraordinary these contracts together represent less than in a number of potential opportunities.
dedication and leadership over 23 years with 10% of revenues.
Specifically in the Power Wood Group.
During the year, we have taken In 2013, we invested $276m in acquisitions which Solutions business of Wood Group GTS, where some important strategic steps and achieved we believe will improve our financial performance we have executed large lump sum projects, the good growth.
In 2014, our mix of opex and capex and strategic positioning.
In December we risk profile was too high.
The Dorad contract is activities and the contribution of completed acquired Elkhorn for a consideration of $215m, the last remaining contract of this scale and is acquisitions is expected to lead to growth overall, representing around six times pro forma EBITA.
It is anticipated that the with growth in Wood Group PSN offsetting a Elkhorn is a Wyoming based construction contract will be profitable overall, but will generate reduction in Wood Group Engineering.
More services provider which enhances our US shale a loss in 2013 and we will not pursue further details of anticipated performance are set out in exposure and complements our construction, opportunities of this size.
the balance of this report.
Looking further ahead, maintenance and fabrication activities.
We also we believe our strategy remains sound and We looked at financial performance across the acquired Pyeroy in July to expand the range of positions us well for growth over the longer term.
Group and recognised that in Wood Group services we provide into specialist coatings and GTS, certain Maintenance activities with less fabric maintenance, and in May we acquired differentiation were not delivering an acceptable Intetech, a niche provider of software and level of return.
We concluded that a sale of engineering consultancy services for well integrity the underperforming parts was not in the best and corrosion management.
We will continue to interest of shareholders, and recognised that our pursue acquisition opportunities in 2014. activities in joint ventures typically deliver stronger Our consideration of capital structure is informed performance over the longer term.
In October by our assessment of operating cash flows, we therefore entered an agreement to form a investment opportunities, and the risks in our joint venture consisting of the Maintenance and business.
We would generally expect a net debt Power Solutions businesses of Wood Group GTS to EBITDA range of around 0.5x to 1.5x going excluding the Rolls Wood Group, TransCanada forward, and to be typically below 1.0x.
To the Turbines and Sulzer Wood joint ventures, and extent that the Group has financial capacity Siemens TurboCare business unit which provides which is surplus to the anticipated needs for aftermarket design, repair and manufacturing acquisitions and organic growth, we would look services.
The joint venture will be a stronger, to return this to shareholders through share buy better differentiated business, providing access backs or special dividends.
The joint venture is expected to deliver annual net synergies to The Group continues to adopt a progressive Wood Group of around $15m by year three.
dividend policy taking into account its capital In other areas of the Group, we have taken requirements, cash flows and earnings.
Since steps including merging operations in Canada, IPO in 2002, we have increased the dividend by reorganising our Engineering divisional structure an equivalent of 20% per annum compound.
The directors have recommended a final dividend of 14.9 cents per share which makes a total Our consistent message on increasing distribution for the year of 22.0 cents, an increase collaboration has resulted in business of 29%.
Reflecting our confidence in future opportunities from people working more closely growth, the Board currently expects the dividend together.
Wood Group Mustang and Wood increase in 2014 to be around 25%, and our Group PSN jointly secured a topsides detailed intent would be to increase the US dollar value engineering and procurement scope in Canada, of dividend per share paid from 2015 onwards and we are working more closely together in by a double digit percentage.
the US, Australia and elsewhere.
We recently completed a corporate rebranding exercise which we believe will improve customer awareness and understanding of the Groups services, and John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
