Strategic Report Chief Executives Review price averaging $7,328 per tonne in 2013, 8% below the 2012 average.
Precious metals were considerably weaker, with average 'HOLYHULQJ LBMA gold and silver prices declining by 15% and 24%, respectively, as concerns over global financial instability retreated and lessened improvement their attractiveness as safe havens.
Mining revenue declined by 9% to $3,058 million, due to lower metals prices, partly offset by higher copper sales volumes.
Revenue in 2012 was assisted by additional gold sales which were held over from 2011.
Cash management was a key focus of attention in 2013, seen in both operating costs and capital expenditure.
Cash operating costs increased by 7%, and were impacted by higher sales volumes.
This level of increase was an achievement given the higher volumes of ore mined and processed, the salary increases awarded in mid-2012 and some ination in input costs.
Evidence of the action taken is seen in the reduction in costs in the second half of the year compared to the first six months of 2013.
Oleg Novachuk, Chief Executive Gross unit cash costs benefited from the additional sales volumes and declined to 328 US cents per pound.
Excluding these additional volumes, the gross unit cash cost was 334 US cents per pound, This review covers a period of significant change.
We delivered in line with 2012, and below both the initial target for the year of three corporate transactions in 2013, allowing us to focus on our 347 to 360 US cents per pound and the revised mid-year target copper mining business in Kazakhstan.
We are likely to see further of 337 to 347 US cents per pound.
transformation in 2014, moving towards our strategic goal of copper production from a core of large scale, low cost, open pit mines.
Costs in 2014 will benefit from the devaluation of the tenge on 11 February 2014, although offset by some consequent inationary Regardless of changes in the business, we remain focused on pressure.
We will also incur additional taxes on salary costs, and improving our health and safety performance.
In 2013, there higher rening charges for the processing of copper concentrate were 18 fatalities.
The progress we are making is slower than we sold to China.
The rening charge is deducted from the sales would like, but encouragingly we are seeing improvements in some price and reduces revenue, but we will include it in our unit cost of the identied core risk areas.
Fatalities resulting from rock fall calculation in keeping with industry practice.
The target range for have reduced compared to the previous year and we are seeing costs in 2014 will therefore be 315 to 330 US cents per pound.
better risk assessments at our underground operations.
We will continue to focus on improving our performance in other hazard The combination of lower revenue and increased costs in 2013 led areas, for example in transport safety, working at heights and to a 39% decline in EBITDA for the Mining Division to $705 million.
Due to lead times, capital investment can be less exible than In 2013, we produced 294 kt of copper cathode equivalent from operating expenditure, however, sustaining capital expenditure in own material.
Finished copper output was slightly higher than the the Mining Division in 2013 was reduced to $422 million, including previous year and was at the top of the range we set at the start of some one-off costs, compared to $603 million in 2012.
We successfully targeted additional copper output, in order we will maintain control over sustaining capital expenditure with to mitigate costs, and we will maintain this strategy in 2014.
This was spend of between $350 and $450 million.
the sixth consecutive year in which we met our production targets We suspended activity at several mid-sized projects, with and I would like to thank my colleagues for their hard work in continuing work focused on studies to lengthen the life of achieving this.
Development capital expenditure will be around Within our principal by-products, output of zinc and gold both $30 million in 2014.
The main emphasis for capital expenditure declined through a combination of lower ore output and grade, will be on the major growth projects, discussed below, at $750 to although in both cases the decline was less than anticipated and $950 million for Bozshakol, $450 to $650 million for Aktogay and production remained ahead of target.
Silver output had a strong $10 million for Koksay.
year, benefiting from a release of work in progress and higher Group EBITDA was $1,149 million in 2013.
Due to their disposal, recovery rates.
MKM, ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1 are only included for part of the Sales of copper products at 312 kt were 16 kt higher than year.
Their disposal and related nancials are covered extensively production, lifted by a reduction in nished goods and the in the Financial Review.
processing of work in progress arising from the suspension In the circular distributed to shareholders on 12 July 2013, of the smelter at Zhezkazgan.
we stated our intention to manage the Groups existing core copper operations to generate sustainable positive cash ow.
The actions Copper production in 2014 will be in line with the guidance for we have taken to reduce costs and sustaining capital expenditure 2013, or between 285 and 295 kt.
Zinc and silver output will decline are positive, but as set out in the Chairmans Statement it has to around 120 kt and 11,000 koz, respectively.
Gold will increase become apparent that more significant changes are required.
to 125 koz, assisted by the commissioning of Bozymchak.
Metals prices remained under pressure in the soft economic climate.
The restructuring being reviewed will result in the operations of the Group consisting of the four mines in the East Region, Copper continued to perform relatively well, with the LME cash 8 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 10 Our Strategy 30 Operating Review along with the three associated concentrator facilities, Bozymchak Aktogay has been covered in the Chairmans Statement, however, in 2014 we will continue with the infrastructure mine in Kyrgyzstan, and the major growth projects.
East Region activities, bulk earthworks and preparations for buildings.
accounts for around 28% of our copper in concentrate output, 41% of gold, 36% of silver output and all of our zinc in concentrate.
The Chairmans Statement mentions the proposed acquisition of It includes around 12% of the Mining Division workforce and 11% Koksay, a third major project, which will come into development of total ore output, with an average copper grade of 2.41%.
after the existing two projects have been commissioned.
Koksay is in southeastern Kazakhstan, close to the Chinese border and is well Although modest in output, the cash generation of the East Region located for existing infrastructure.
It has a total resource of around assets will put the Group in a strong position to move through the 3,440 kt of copper, at an average grade of 0.48% and the deposit development phase of the major growth projects.
also contains silver and gold.
In 2014, expenditure will be restricted It is being considered that the mines in Zhezkazgan and Central to around $10 million, principally on additional drilling.
No significant Regions, along with captive power, smelting and rening, will become expenditure will be incurred until the major projects are producing.
part of a separate corporate entity.
With further investment and At 31 December 2013, the Group had net debt of $771 million.
potential Government support, the life of these mines could be This is before the receipt of $1.25 billion for Ekibastuz GRES-1.
extended but this is challenging with the Groups current funding Spending on the growth projects in 2013 was lighter than capability and the returns are unlikely to be compatible with the anticipated, although this expenditure will transfer into 2014 demands of a listed company and external shareholders.
In 2014, we anticipate total capital spend of up to recognised an impairment charge of $670 million, largely due to $2 billion, of which up to $1.6 billion is for the major projects.
the challenging economic outlook for certain assets, particularly in the Zhezkazgan Region.
The management of cash will continue to be a key focus for management.
Our growth projects are securely funded from our A restructuring of this nature would be highly complicated, two long-term debt facilities.
The disposal of our non-core assets especially for a Group that has been so fully integrated.
The division will greatly strengthen the balance sheet.
The funds held will reduce and management of central and shared services will require careful the future borrowing requirements of the Group and could be planning in order not to disrupt production and to ensure a stable used to repay existing facilities if so required.
base for both entities in the future.
Market analysts have concerns about excess supply of copper In 2013, with the suspension of our smelter in Zhezkazgan we from 2013 to 2015, as several large projects enter commissioning.
recommenced the sale of copper in concentrate and increased Experience shows, however, that global supply growth is generally the proportion of our sales to China.
In 2014, around 40% of lower than anticipated and output from historic assets will continue our copper sales will be in the form of concentrate.
Demand for copper should benefit from a recovery in concentrate is sold at a lower price to cathode, reecting the cost global growth and long-term prospects for copper are excellent.
of smelting and rening to the customer, but this reduction is offset by removing the operating costs and sustaining capital expenditure With the disposal of the non-core assets, the improved management of the smelter complex.
of costs and the emphasis on additional production, we have moved the Group a considerable way forward.
We will now continue to The completion of our major growth projects is central to the consider our proposed restructuring, at the end of which Kazakhmys success of Kazakhmys, providing long-term supply from large scale, could be a remarkably different group, centred around three major low cost, open pit mines.
At Bozshakol, several key milestones were growth projects and a core of cash generative producing assets.
met in 2013, with the delivery of the main milling equipment, the The outlook for copper remains positive and, as a simplied group enclosure of the main processing building ahead of the winter focused on copper, I believe we can approach the future with period and some major support infrastructure and earthworks.
As previously mentioned, we appointed a second contractor at Oleg Novachuk Bozshakol, which led to an increase in the overall budgeted cost for Chief Executive the project of around $350 million, however the appointment of the additional contractor will provide greater assurance that the project remains on track for first production in 2015. www.
