Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A 15 QUESTION QUESTION Kentz has achieved another strong You have worked in this industry for year of growth.
How have your 20 years and have now been CEO of operations performed?
Kentz for two years, what do you believe makes Kentz different?
ANSWER ANSWER Our target coming into 2013 was to deliver double digit earnings growth I think it is important for us to and Im delighted to say our adjusted continue to differentiate ourselves as earnings grew by 17.3% in the year.
our sector has disappointed many Our TSS business unit has had a clients and investors in the past particularly strong year as we couple of years.
Showing why we are continue to offer our services to different and not going to disappoint more clients in more locations.
is key and mainly due to the Revenue from our Construction and following factors: EPC business units have fallen in 1 We have developed strong client 2013 but we expect to see an relationships through a proven CHRISTIAN BROWN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER improvement in 2014.
For track record of successful project Construction, slower progress in a execution over the past three couple of projects in the first half of decades.
Fundamental to this 2013 meant lower than expected success have been the provide us with the ability to foresee revenues but we expect this will outstanding contributions made delays and respond before it seriously catch up in 2014.
We are seeing by our highly skilled and impacts our earnings.
more bidding activity in EPC in motivated workforce and retaining recent months with a number of this talent throughout the There continues to be a huge awards being made to Kentz which business cycle.
The collaborative opportunity for Kentz to provide its provides confidence for this year and efforts of the projects teams broad service offering to our clients.
Of course, Valerus who we create significant value in project This is evident by the growing pipeline acquired on 3 January 2014 will also execution and explains why 80% of prospects that has increased 18% in add significant revenues to the EPC of our work is from clients that we 2013 and has grown steadily in the business in 2014. have served in the past.
This is a metric we 2 We have operating flexibility place a lot of emphasis on internally QUESTION through a differentiated service along with monitoring our clients offering across the entire project The acquisition of Valerus is a investment plans.
value chain so we can provide significant addition to the Group.
many services to one project.
How will this new business change QUESTION 3 Our operations have geographical Kentz?
Where will the focus be over the diversity which allows for global next 12 months?
positioning to support projects ANSWER worldwide.
The acquisition of Valerus satisfies ANSWER 4 Although we operate largely in the the strategic initiative of building out During 2014, we will continue what oil and gas sector, we are a service EPC.
Valerus adds to our engineering we do best: to deliver projects for our provider and work in other sectors capability and provides us with clients ensuring that safety is always such as mining, power and process engineering expertise to our greatest focus, enabling our and infrastructure which provide allow us to provide EPC for small to our clients staff to go home safe and flexibility and further medium onshore process facilities.
We have grown strongly since opportunities.
Valerus also provides material entry we listed six years ago and I believe into the US and Latin American we will continue to grow and expand QUESTION markets where Kentzs exposure our operations, services and client Many companies in this sector are todate has been limited.
We are making great strides in experiencing delays or cancellations plan to integrate Valerus into Kentz delivering our strategic initiatives and in projects which seems to be right away but we see great business we are always looking to the future to impacting their growth plans.
How development opportunities for the ensure we have growth plans that will has Kentz been affected by changes combined entity as there is little continue to create shareholder value.
overlap in our respective clientbases.
ANSWER To date, we have not seen any significant delays or cancellations to our projects.
Delays to projects occur for a host of reasons, but our decentralised operating model ensures that frequent, meaningful communications with our clients Figures stated before exceptional items amounting to US$8.3m.
For more information, please visit: www.
