Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INTRODUCTION 2013 was another period of major success Kentz continued its previous successes in 2013 and has achieved for Kentz and represents a key milestone exceptional organic growth in its in our growth.
Kentz has achieved business in the six years since it listed.
That growth is complemented exceptional organic growth in its business and extended by the addition to the in the six years since listing and the Group of Valerus, whose acquisition marks a key milestone in our acquisition of Valerus complements and growthstrategy.
extends that growth and provides many Overall, the 2013 results are very benefits to the enlarged group.
We achieved our stated target of double digit earnings growth and realised a growth of 17.3%.
This growth was attributable to both our ability to develop natural growth opportunities through existing relationships as well as to attract new business.
We ended theyear with a record backlog of US$3.1bn, with the backlog of the enlarged Group at the end of February 2014 having grown to US$4.1bn.
Further, a considerable amount of Valerus contracts are book and burn and do not form part of the Group backlog.
Our backlog continues to offer a low risk profile for the Group with approximately 78% of the year-end backlog being cost-reimbursable.
In addition to the orders on hand, we have a pipeline ofprospects of US$15.6bn that provides confidence for the future and demonstrates how our broad service offering continues to provide opportunities for growth.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Our Technical Support Services TSS business unit has had an exceptional year, growing its revenues by 60% and its backlog by83%.
We have increased our revenue in the North American market through the expansion of our operations in Canada and our entry into Alaska.
OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT Construction remains our largest and our core business unit and has had ON OUR PEOPLE AND I HAVE NO DOUBT exceptional success in winning new WE HAVE THE PEOPLE, SKILLS AND projects.
Our construction team hasestablished new operations in AMBITION TO CONTINUE OUR SUCCESS Colombia and added further success with a new contract at the Ichthys STORY AND ACHIEVE FURTHER VALUE LNG project in Australia.
In February FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
2014, we were awarded the US$640m structural, mechanical andpiping construction contract CHRISTIAN BROWN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ina50:50 joint venture with UGL Figures stated before exceptional items amounting to US$8.3m.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 13 PEOPLE Resources.
There has been further Kentz prides itself on the integrity, bidding activity on other sizeable dedication, technical excellence and contracts at Ichthys which are due for teamwork of all its employees.
The award in the first half of 2014. strong workforce and teamwork provides for effective collaboration Our strategy to grow EPC both between business units and ensures organically and inorganically has that clients needs are fulfilled in the achieved great success in 2013.
I would like additional leadership, technical and tothank all of our staff for their sales resources have delivered a 30% continued support, commitment increase in legacy EPC backlog, andhard work.
Our future positioning us for significant growth accomplishments depend on our in 2014 and beyond.
The acquisition people and I have no doubt we have of Valerus has increased our technical the people, skills and ambition to capabilities, introduced us to a new ACQUISITION OF VALERUS continue our success and realise client base and built a critical mass in FIELD SOLUTIONS further value for all our stakeholders.
We expect to We were very pleased to announce deliver future growth through joint the proposed acquisition of Valerus STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK business winning opportunities.
Field Solutions Valerus in early In 2013, we began to implement December.
Our strategy for EPC CORPORATE ACTIVITY thestrategic initiatives to build our has been to expand our ability to During the year, the Group received business capabilities and continue provide EPC for small to medium onshore process facilities.
The approaches from two parties our exceptional performance.
acquisition of Valerus provides a expressing their interest in acquiring Acquiring engineering capability was number of benefits to Kentz such the entire share capital of Kentz.
As a key objective that was met with the as process engineering expertise to stated in our announcement in acquisition of Valerus Field Solutions pursue further EPC opportunities, August, the Board of Kentz met and on 3 January 2014.
This new addition material entry into the US and discussed these approaches, taking to the Kentz Group provides many LatinAmerican markets, new into account the growth plans that benefits as well as opportunities clients and opportunities to sell we had and the resulting value we togrow the Group through the Kentzs services.
Having expansion of the client bases of both The addition of Valerus to the Kentz performed detailed analysis and entities and the global reach of the Group brings 665 people including receiving assistance from our combined Group.
We are continuing 198 with demonstrable experience advisors, the Board unanimously to implement the other initiatives in gas handling and processing.
rejected each of these approaches and have made good progress Valerus is a strongly performing and subsequently the interest from already on many of these.
business with a track record of these parties ceased.
The Board delivering high margins.
One of maintains that it made the correct The outlook for Kentz remains very themain aims of the transaction decision and, as evidenced by our positive.
I am confident that 2014 will isto expand its service offering success through the latter half of the be a very busy and successful year.
geographically through the broad network of Kentzs operations.
The year, acted in the best interests of We have a strong order book and an business development teams from our shareholders.
abundance of opportunities that Kentz and Valerus are already exist for our services in our core engaging with each other to SAFETY markets.
We also have a strong identify opportunities for the workforce to execute these projects In 2013, we worked a total of enlarged Group.
with the ultimate aim of creating 46,364,322 man-hours, and at further value for our shareholders.
0.14, our full year Total Recordable The Board of Kentz believes that, Incident Rate TRIR was down 26% consistent with our strategy, the acquisition of Valerus will help to from 2012s TRIR of 0.19.
Safety establish Kentz as a recognised Christian Brown continues to be our core value, market leader in providing highly Chief Executive Officer withthe safety and health of all our skilled process engineering, employees being of vital importance Engineering Procurement to the organisation.
Safety is also a Construction Management paramount value of our clients and EPCM and EPC services for we work closely with each client to smalland medium sized oil and gas ensure that safety is given priority on processing facilities worldwide.
all project sites to ensure that no one gets hurt and everyone goes home safe and well.
For more on Valerus, see pages 3233 For more information, please visit: www.
