Operational review Chief executives review The acquisition of May Gurney is a key milestone in the ongoing development and growth of the Group... providing us with a strong platform for 2014 and beyond Paul Sheffield Overview During the year, we strengthened Chief Executive Kier has delivered a solid set of results our capital structure, securing for the year ended 30 June 2013, 92m of new funding via US private with underlying profit before tax and placements USPP with seven and earnings per share in line with our ten-year durations and a loan under expectations.
This has been supported the Governments Funding for Lending by a resilient cash performance, with Scheme, over four years.
These a year-end net cash balance of 60m replaced the previous 30m USPP, 2012: 129m after significant which expired in February, and are in investment across the Group.
This has addition to the renegotiations of our been achieved in a very competitive revolving credit facilities in 2012, which trading environment and is testament to run to September 2016. our effective project selection and risk The acquisition of May Gurney is a key management processes.
milestone in the ongoing development We have also had a number of and growth of the Group.
We now have significant project wins, enabling us to a combined order book of almost 6bn maintain strong order books.
These across our Construction and Services include the Mersey Gateway Bridge, divisions, providing us with a strong Broadmoor Hospital redevelopment, platform for 2014 and beyond.
securing the redevelopment rights to the Swan Hunter shipyards on Tyneside and over 200m of housing maintenance awards.
U nderlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of 3.4m 2012: 3.4m and exceptional items totalling 17.0m 2012: 3.6m.
08 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements The new station we are constructing in joint venture for the Mass Transit Railway Corporation MTRC integrates the existing Tseun Wan and Island Lines with the new South Island Line and the Shatin Central Link in Hong Kong.
Divisional performance: revenue Construction 1,308m Services 437m Property 238m Financial performance 1 1 Total revenue Operating profit m m Construction 1,308 30.4 Services 437 19.3 Divisional performance: operating profit Property 238 20.5 Construction 30.4m Corporate 0.5 Services 1,983 69.7 19.3m 1 Group and share of joint ventures.
Property 20.5m Revenue for the year at 1,983m was 1.8m of acquisition and integration slightly lower than last year 2012: costs relating to the May Gurney 2,069m, primarily because of the transaction.
reduction in our Construction revenues.
The cash outflow during the year in Poor weather in the first quarter of this respect of the above was approximately calendar year caused delays, pushing 11.0m.
revenues into the 2014 financial year.
Profit before tax for the year of The Camden Civic Centre development at Kings As predicted, we have also seen a Cross top will combine a swimming pool, leisure 63.4m 2012: 70.0m and earnings change in the mix of activities, with centre, library, customer access centre, caf and per share of 136.2p 2012: 156.8p more infrastructure and overseas work.
office accommodation and is set to be one of the were both in line with our expectations.
The photo shows the The Groups operating profit was slip-formed concrete core.
69.7m 2012: 74.4m, in line with our expectations and comprised One of our joint venture projects for Crossrail in Dividend per share London bottom : sprayed concrete-lined access operating margins of 2.3% in tunnel at Bond Street, Eastern Ticket Hall which Construction, 4.4% in Services and will be used by passengers to reach the platforms.
68.0p 3% a sustained contribution 20.5m Concrete spraying machine seen at the opening to from Property as we continue with 2012: 66.0p the tunnel.
The strength of the underlying divisional operating margins reflects the quality of the work Earnings per share we completed during the year.
Exceptional items before tax amounted 136.2p -13% to a charge of 17.0m for the year 2012: 156.8p 2012: charge of 3.6m, as follows: 12.0m relating to the comprehensive restructuring Combined Construction programme mainly in the and Services order book Construction division, which is substantially complete.
These included costs related to the closure 4.3bn of the scaffolding, joinery and 2012: 4.3bn temporary electrical businesses, office closures and associated staff reductions: 3.2m relating to the disposal of the tower crane business, which comprised the loss on disposal of some of the fixed assets together with transaction and redundancy B efore exceptional items and amortisation of costs: and intangible assets relating to contract rights.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Operational review Chief executives review Continued The management of working capital Restructuring remains very important to us.
We In order to improve the efficiency of the continue to operate in a challenging Group, we have undertaken a significant payment environment, where the restructuring programme during the introduction of project bank accounts year, closing some non-core operations and specific payment terms, particularly and adjusting the scale of our regional across public sector contracts and building operations to better suit framework arrangements, place anticipated demand.
greater pressure on the working The programme is designed to ensure capital position of the Group.
This is that we operate as efficiently as coupled with the changing nature of our possible and maintain our operating construction contracts to a target cost, margins at good levels.
We will reimbursable type, as we continue to continue to invest appropriately in our grow our infrastructure and overseas IT infrastructure, which will help us to businesses.
It is therefore pleasing that the Group The cost of this programme, reported achieved an average month-end net as an exceptional charge, was 12.0m.
debt balance of 4m 2012: average Outlook month-end net cash of 95m after With our entire forecast Construction investment of approximately 77m revenue and 95% of our Services during the year and the completion of revenue secure and probable for 2014, a number of our property transactions we are in a strong position to achieve in the last quarter of the financial year.
organic growth, which coupled with the May Gurney strength of the forward bidding pipeline The acquisition of May Gurney has gives us comfort that this trend is likely created a combined support services to continue.
The 1.5bn pipeline in our business with revenues in excess of Property division has grown significantly 1bn.
The enlarged Group is now more over the last three years and there are evenly balanced with an increased many opportunities, which will provide proportion of profits being derived from good visibility of future earnings.
We the Services division, which has an have the cash resources to continue to order book stretching over ten years.
invest in non-speculative schemes that The strategic rationale for the will generate our targeted 15% return acquisition was to enable us to on capital.
deliver more services to more Following the acquisition of May Gurney customers over a wider geography.
we have received very strong customer Our capability now extends to support for the combination and we highways maintenance where we are already seeing the benefits of the maintain approximately 35,000km of greater breadth of services we can offer roads and 500,000 street lights and new and existing customers across signs.
Our environmental portfolio the country.
has substantially increased and we The bidding for AMP6, across the water W e have the cash now provide services to over three sector, will commence later this year million households.
In utility services, and we are well placed to capitalise on resources to we now have a presence in the the combined capabilities of the two telecommunications sector and an businesses, while our combined rail continue to invest increased operational capability in offering will be of great benefit as we many of the water authority regions on tender for a range of new framework in non-speculative AMP5 schemes, which will position us agreements with Network Rail.
Similarly, well for the forthcoming AMP6 tenders the scale of services we can deliver to Property in 2014. local authorities providing innovative Since the acquisition, we have not lost and cost effective solutions will be well development any contracts and our combined set of received at a time when they are still capabilities has enabled us to bid on a looking to make operational savings.
schemes that will range of new projects covering water, rail and highways with a total value in generate our excess of 500m.
targeted 15% return on capital 10 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Chris Grice, cleansing operative.
Our ten-year Safety, Health and Environment SHE People 120m environmental services contract in East Through visible leadership, worker The acquisition of May Gurney involved Sussex covers four councils: Eastbourne, Wealden, engagement and effective risk a team of people from both businesses Hastings and Rother.
It includes waste collection, management, our goal remains the who have worked tirelessly to make street and beach cleaning.
elimination of workplace injuries, better the integration as smooth as possible protection to our environment and an with the least disruption to our increase in our peoples awareness respective customers.
of occupational health and well-being.
We have welcomed our new colleagues Our Accident Incident Rate AIR of 333 to Kier with particular focus on health remains well below the Health & Safety and safety, personnel, training and Executives benchmark figure of 589. development to reinforce our objective Our Positive Safety Leadership PSL of providing a seamless expansion programme has delivered over 50,000 of our services with a motivated conversations recognising both positive and quality-driven management and and challenging aspects of SHE workforce.
These are a powerful It is through the effort and commitment means of engaging with our staff and of our staff, now totalling approximately developing a positive safety leadership 16,000 people, that we remain a strong culture throughout the Group.
Over 60% business and can continue to report of the delegates attending the Safe such a solid set of results in the current and Unsafe Acts SUSA workshops economic environment.
came from our supply chain, indicating On behalf of the Board, I would like to the importance of collaborative express my gratitude to everyone who working in delivering top-quartile SHE makes all of this possible.
Our occupational health department supports the business in its aim to Paul Sheffield raise the awareness of well-being and Chief Executive the elimination of workplace injuries and incidents.
Several health focus events were held throughout the country which were supported equally well by both Kier employees and our supply chain.
During the year, Kier received 22 RoSPA awards, 13 BSC awards, 44 Considerate Constructors Scheme national awards, six Green Apple awards, winner of the National Recycling award and the National House Building Council NHBC Health & Safety awards for the second consecutive year.
We also achieved 95% Platinum Big Tick status in our 2013 Business in the Community BITC Corporate Responsibility Index 2012: 90% Gold status.
Nicky Atkinson, a City Stewardship learner and Jon Evans, City Stewardship supervisor top far left, part of our housing maintenance team at Kier Sheffield LLP.
Tom Smith bottom far left, loader for the recycling side of the business, Cheshire West and Chester CWaC contract, Winsford.
He is currently on a May Gurney vehicle which collects householders kerbside recycling.
After just two months on Kier Partnership Homes Balaam Wood Site in Birmingham, apprentice Masimba Matapo left came third in the heats of the Dulux Decorators Centres 2013 apprentice of the year competition.
He then won a regional heat of the Johnstones Young Painter of the Year competition.
