Business review Governance Accounts 5 Chief Executives statement As the Chairman says in his review, it Grown the amount of product that is During the year we developed the wider has been a tough year for Kingfisher, with sourced direct from suppliers around management team, mostly through currency movements, weather and weak the world using our global network of internal promotion, adding Steve Willett consumer markets providing significant sourcing offices.
Particularly strong and Guy Colleau to the Group Executive headwinds for our businesses.
But I am growth in direct sourced product was team.
Steve takes on responsibility pleased that the hard work of our teams achieved in our developing markets, for our omnichannel activities as well as and our firm focus on our well established Poland, Russia, Turkey and China.
Steves programme of self-help initiatives, including We also achieved our target of sharing previous role as CEO of Screwfix makes cost efficiencies and sourcing gains, helped more of our best own brand products him ideally suited to this role.
Guy, who offset some of these headwinds and across our businesses.
was previously CEO of Castorama France, enabled us to end the year in good shape.
takes on responsibility for driving our Opened 70 net new stores during product agenda across our businesses.
We continued to actively manage the the year in markets where economic business, generating cash and a positive returns are attractive, including 60 new So, in summary, it was a tough year but economic profit whilst successfully Screwfix units in the UK.
We revamped we ended it in good shape, with a strong delivering the first year of our Creating the and extended five Castorama stores in balance sheet and with our Creating the Leader programme, which is designed to France and are trialling a new format Leader programme well underway.
We increase shareholder value over the store in China targeting the Do-it-forwill continue with this programme in medium-term.
the coming year and later in this Annual Report you will find more details of the We made good progress on the four key Worked more closely together as a key activities we have planned.
areas of this programme: Easier, Common, networked organisation.
We have Expand and One Team.
This Annual now launched the Kingfisher One Although the economic background Report includes many examples of the key Academy with the aim of attracting remains challenging, I believe Kingfisher milestones we achieved in the year but a and developing a top team of the best continues to have excellent prospects as few worthy of particular note include: talent in international retailing.
We also we work towards our aim of making it launched Kingfishers Net Positive easier for customers to have better, Increased investment in online sustainability strategy.
Our aim is to go more sustainable homes.
Screwfix launched a mobile beyond simply being neutral or doing click, pay & collect service for less harm, towards making a net customers and has developed a Group Ian Cheshire positive contribution.
Our focus is on omnichannel platform that has enabled Group Chief Executive four areas: timber, energy, innovation B&Qs TradePoint business to launch a and communities and I am convinced transactional website.
A lot of work also that this approach is vital as businesses went into preparing for the launch of a must be a force for good in society.
new and improved online offer for B&Q later in 2013.
I BELIEVE KINGFISHER CONTINUES TO HAVE EXCELLENT PROSPECTS AS WE WORK TOWARDS OUR AIM OF MAKING IT EASIER FOR CUSTOMERS TO HAVE BETTER, MORE SUSTAINABLE HOMES.
Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive To watch a video interview with Ian Cheshire, go to www.
