14 Chief Executives review Our financial results for 2013 masked realoperational progress and we remainconfident about thedirection of the business.
2013 saw us continue to build a stronger The focus for 2014 will be to maximise the which led tothe launch of Sportium.
es and more competitive business.
Our benefits of these investments and further inDecember.
financial results reflected the disruption improve the competitive offer of the Retail Digital capability from these necessary changes and also estate.
We have local management The Digital market continues to evolve some market-wide difficulties.
They did not, incentivised on local performance, looking driven by technology and changing however, reflect the real operational to use the presence of Sky TV, free Wifi and consumer behaviour, with Mobile offering progress made.
Weenter 2014 confident SSBTs as a selling point in local marketing the greatest growth opportunity.
in our ability to deliver the final changes to maximise the impact.
needed to establish a far more competitive 2013 was a significant and busy year The complexion of the UK high street has offer that will be attractive to customers and forourDigital business.
We entered a changed dramatically over recent years.
drive shareholder benefits in H2 and beyond.
transformational agreement with Playtech Accordingly we accelerated the expansion and took significant steps to introduce a of our estate, opening new shops in areas Retail excellence new and more competitive product offer.
High street betting continues to be an ofhigher footfall.
Going forward, some The change necessary to deliver all this rationalisation in the bookmaking market attractive proposition for customers and activity was not without implications and offers a resilient source of income despite a seems likely, because of rising operating performance in the Digital business costs and the likelihood of pressure on rents difficult trading and regulatory environment.
This is a process After achieving a record level of net which we should benefit from.
During 2014 The deal with Playtech is a critical step revenuein 2012, Retail faced a more we will focus on the optimisation of our towards the creation of a compelling Digital challenging year with cost and taxation estate and improving the quality of earnings offer and one befitting the Ladbrokes brand.
headwinds exacerbated by slower than by reducing the tail of non-contributing The agreement came into force from 1 May expected machines growth in an shops with 40-50 shops likely to be closed.
The first increasingly competitive market.
significant step was the creation of Growing in Europe The year finished strongly but this was not Ladbrokes Israel, which delivers a team Our increasing presence in European enough to mitigate the well-publicised highly experienced in digital marketing with markets continues to offer benefits as it negative impact of the extremely hot a proven track record in market leading assists the Group in gaining access to growth weather which seriously affected the whole CRM and in developing efficient customer markets and has the potential to mitigate the market through unprecedented drops in acquisition processes.
We are pleased impact of any UK regulatory and economic footfall in July and August.
withthe transition following what has been change on our UK Retail business.
However, despite the challenging year for Ireland had a difficult year reflecting wider As part of the deal, Playtech are also Retail, the high street remains an attractive economic trends and the continuation of proposition for our shops and we invested providing a full suite of new gaming casino ahighly competitive trading environment, product, and a new back office system, IMS.
further in Retail to ensure it remains particularly in the Republic.
relevant and compelling for the customer.
Product migration started during the year In Belgium, we saw a year of consolidation with the launch of the new Vegas games As well as the expansion of the estate with after record results in 2012.
We have plans casino as well as a new Poker product.
121 new shops, we delivered more content tointroduce SSBTs, virtual products and with Sky TV, Wifi and a new broadcast In December we launched a new and more aDigital service ahead of the 2014 Football facility, Ladbrokes TV, for all our shops.
We competitive Mobile offer on the proven World Cup.
Together these should combine also introduced 1,400 Self Service Betting Playtech Mobenga platform.
Mobile is the toestablish Ladbrokes as the dominant fastest growing area of digital gambling and Terminals SSBTs to offer a greater product multi-channel betting operator in the country.
and betting range, particularly for football offers the greatest opportunity for the Ladbrokes brand.
We have also begun to roll out In Spain, we recorded another year of 9,000 new machines across the shop estate growth as the slow but steady regional reaction has been encouraging.
ahead of the Football World Cup.
The regulation process continues to allow us to The Mobile launch was preceded bythe new introduction of a more sophisticated cabinet expend the retail activities of Sportium, our browser-based sportsbook launch in April.
is key to maintaining a leading machine Joint Venture JV with Cirsa Group.
We now InNovember we launched the Ladbrokes offer in an increasingly competitive market.
operate in six regions and also agreed with Exchange to further differentiate our offer Cirsa to extend the JV into digital channels Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 and meet the demand from the We rolled out the industry code for harm 2013 also saw a high level of industry minimisation across our retail estate and engagement on the Gambling Act approximately 30% of our customers who use an exchange account regularly.
This was will fully support further industry-wide regulations which will see a 15% place of initiatives on this important topic.
consumption tax introduced on all online only possible through integrating with the Betdaq betting exchange which we sportsbook transactions undertaken by In addition, we are taking actions to reinforce UKresidents with a likely start date of purchased in February2013.
responsible gamblings position at the heart December this year.
We also took further steps to broaden our of the business.
There will be a Board international reach with further progress committee dedicated to the topic and from How the tax impacts the wider market is as yet unclear.
A poorly enforced tax will create inChina and in taking our Digital offer to 2015, we will formalise responsible gambling Australia where we see considerable measures into Executive remuneration.
an uncompetitive environment for established UK operators while strict growth potential.
Wealso have considerable data from our Odds On loyalty card and believe this has enforcement through IP blocking or action Our capability in Digital was further enhanced on payment processing would create asignificant role to play in managing through the creation of a separate Digital responsible gambling.
We will look to trial opportunity for more established players.
team with dedicated expert management, We will continue to make this case at the new initiatives and use our insights to learn allof whom have clear areasof expertise more about at risk behaviour and how to highest level.
target information at individual players.
Outlook Wewill continue to share these learnings The focus for 2014 is simple: mobilise our 2014 is a pivotal year for Ladbrokes.
business, deliver a single wallet and then Wewillsee our competitive offer continue deliver best in class CRM and growth in The wider debate on machines has grown toevolve and improve.
Key to this will customer lifetime value.
to include much comment on the perceived bemobilising our business and delivering increase of betting shops on the UK high asingle customer wallet and improved The Digital offer, particularly Mobile, of street.
While betting shops generally are CRMcapability.
Ladbrokes is pivotal to our competitiveness halfthe number they were in the 1970s it going forward and the business remains We remain confident in the business and the istrue that high streets have become more absolutely focused on delivering a product progress we are making to deliver a more accessible and affordable for bookmakers.
that attracts customers and delivers for competitive and sustainable business in a shareholders.
We are very mindful of the journey our shareholders have been Brand strength offers firm foundations on.
We remain highly cash generative and Our brand is still one of the most recognised The long-term have a strong balance sheet with which in the UK and the number one choice for weunderwrite a healthy dividend.
people when looking at the betting and sustainability of any gaming sector.
It has a natural resonance We are well placed to maximise on the with the customer but has been poorly opportunities available to us as we align business in the served by the product, particularly inDigital.
more competitive products with proven 2013 was a year when we have begun to technology and greater capability behind sector is intrinsically address this weakness of product and we our significant brand presence.
We can see believe the steps taken in 2013 to reposition early, but encouraging, signs of customer linked to this issue.
our offer can see the brand act as a catalyst confidence in the new products, and are to growth, particularly with the growth of focused on turning that into benefits multi-channel customers.
We have always worked closely with local Responsible Gambling authorities and local communities.
We have The end of 2013 and recent events have always said we understand their need to meant the industry has been firmly in the have some say over how their high streets eye of a media and political storm and our feel.
The feedback we get is that in the vast share price performance has reflected the majority of cases our shops benefit the high uncertainty.
At the centre of this storm has Richard Glynn streets they serve.
been the issue of responsible gambling Chief Executive Officer Our view is the current level of competition withthe catalyst for the debate being the Governments triennial review into stakes in certain locations is unsustainable, rising operating costs including taxation and and prizes.
Although this found no evidence to change current stake and prize limits, content costs and the prospect of rising rents will drive some operators out of theindustry was effectively put on review pending further research over concerns certain locations.
While this offers local market share growth opportunities we will therole machines play in causing problem gambling.
not be afraid to walk away from certain shops if we do not see a long-term Our view is very simple, responsible sustainable income.
gambling is not a passing regulatory issue but a fact of life for all operators.
The long-term sustainability of any business in the sector is intrinsically linked to this issue.
