Chief Executives review 2013 ended with a strong second half.
2014 has commenced with year on year growth consistent with our constant currency expectations for the full year.
The good progress we have made has been grounded in the investments executing our strategy and delivering strategic differentiation.
This has deepened our relationships with existing customers and allowed us to win new customers and develop new markets.
It is this strategic progress that underpins our confidence for 2014 and beyond.
2014 will see more benefits from innovation, particularly in Wireless Systems, delivered in the second half.
This includes the commencement of already secured contracts for next generation M2M products.
Our investment in manufacturing capacity in new territories, such as Vietnam, supports Performance Materials growth in the second half.
As a result, as in 2013, we expect 2014 to be second half weighted.
David Lockwood Chief Executive 14 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 14 07 03 2014 19:13 Achievements against our strategic objectives Geographic reach in 2013 We said we would focus on China, Korea and Northern Europe.
We have made clear progress in China with industrial and We have defined our strategic differentiation: innovation, automotive customers and won new long-term automotive reliable fulfilment and speed, with the business now focused contracts with leading German automotive OEMs.
on these capabilities in day-to-day operations see case studies on pages 21 to 27 In December 2012 we said that our market entry strategy We are diversifying our customer base, within and between to significantly penetrate the Korean market would take at market segments least a year to deliver, as we needed to assess and review our options and invest resources in stepping up our strategic We sell into global market segments with attractive growth account engagement.
In January 2014, it was announced that prospects see pages 28 and 29 for an independent view on a new plant in Vietnam would be established, which will work market trends in conjunction with a Business Design Centre in Korea.
This We have increased investment to drive sustained innovation initiative is expected to contribute to revenue growth in 2014 see Financial review on page 46 and the expansion of our geographic footprint will create further We are expanding our geographic reach see map on pages opportunities with new and existing customers see our 2014 6 and 7 strategic objectives on page 17.
Strategic decisions are systematically and consistently aligned Sustained innovation to our Business Model for organic and inorganic growth through product and market expansion see Business Model Our increased level of R&D investment has brought new contract on page 8 wins as customers continue to reward us for the innovation we provide.
Notable examples include contracts with automotive and telecom customers for whom we have provided innovative Differentiation solutions for technically challenging products, as well as At the end of 2012 we set out in our Business Review continuing to be a design partner with smartphone customers presentation how we create and capture value through our on next generation models.
strategic differentiation of innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed.
A key initiative in 2013 has been to communicate this The positive impact from increased R&D in our Performance mission to our stakeholders.
Our employees are focused on Materials division, which has relatively short product lifecycles, delivering our differentiation and understand it will drive market helped drive differentiation in 2013 and is expected to share and profitable growth.
Our customers in turn, recognise contribute to new business wins in 2014.
For the Wireless our differentiation and that is how and why we are winning new Systems division, product cycle and qualification periods are business.
For both divisions, the adherence to product roadmaps is much improved, bringing new products to markets at a Diversification of customer base fasterpace.
Sector and customer diversification will even out the seasonal Business Model alignment fluctuations in revenue which tend to be driven by the demands of the consumer market and will, over the longer-term, drive The Business Model has been clearly defined and provides the higher capacity utilisation and greater efficiency.
framework for our business leaders to execute our strategy.
Further explanation of how the Business Model is aligned to We have focused on penetrating new market segments and our strategy is set out on page 12. geographies as well as selling more products collaborative selling across our businesses to existing customers, with Enhanced governance framework tangible evidence of the successful execution of this strategy Another strategic focus in 2013 has been to enhance our noted in our Operating review on pages 41 to 45. governance and risk mitigation framework.
Governance as well as culture, leadership, strategy and operating model, comprise the five foundational pillars that align the leadership within our business.
This is illustrated on page 16.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 15 07 03 2014 19:13 Chief Executives review continued Our culture Operational leadership structure and the five pillars The organisation has become more collaborative and operates under the One Laird approach.
Culture Culture Statement We work as a global team of talented individuals to Leadership make a difference to our employees, business partners, and our world.
Strategy We have an unwavering commitment to being honest and Operating model ethical in all situations and treating each other with dignity Governance andrespect.
We create an open and engaging environment that CEO thrives on high energy, adaptability and delivering on our commitments.
Laird is a great place with great opportunities for personal Executives and professional growth for those who work hard, are willing to learn and deliver results.
In order to facilitate the Companys new direction and to Leadership team empower leaders within our organisation, a Leadership team was formed which is comprised of the most senior managers across Laird.
The team meets three times per year, provides a key forum for networking and collaboration and is a driving force Management team in implementing the strategy and embracing the new culture.
The Leadership team also forms part of the Management team which meets annually and comprises the top 200 managers.
This team reaches deeper into the organisation to embed the Whole organisation culture, to cascade the strategy and provide guidance and leadership to the whole organisation.
Changes were made to our organisation structure at the end of 2012 to best facilitate the Companys new direction and to empower leaders Events in 2013 included: within our organisation.
In 2013, the structure has allowed employees A Management Conference held in January in California, to work more closely together and attend events tailored for each group our first ever Global Supplier Conference held in September such as Leadership events and the annual Management Conference.
in Shanghai and conferences for the Leadership team held in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
See further information as to the composition of our Board on pages 54 and 55 and within our Diversity section of the CSR report on page 37.
In the second half of 2013, we appointed a Chief Strategy & Technology Officer.
His appointment provides further strategic direction at business unit level.
He has already made an impact by reviewing strategic route maps and ensuring that the decisions taken define our value to customers and are aligned to overall Company strategy.
16 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 16 07 03 2014 19:13 Strategy Achievements for 2014 We have both key performance indicators and a company strategic scorecard which provides metrics against performance.
Furtherdetail on KPIs can be found on pages 19 and 20.
Strategic focus 2014 objectives KPIs Continue to diversify within and between market sectors In 2013: 5 customers over Customer $25m 2012, 4 customers Increase the number of significant customers across the Company diversification 8 customers between $10m and $25m 2012, 6 customers 57 customers between $1m and $10m 2012, 64 customers Increasing use of automation processes Revenue and margin Drive strategic growth Precision engineering focus and Business Design Centres rollout differentiation Internal target for low Reliable sampling and rapid prototyping goal to provide within 24 hours see case studies on pages DPPM default parts 21 to 27 highlighting how our Demonstrating our value to protect pricing per million innovation, reliable fulfilment Continue to build the right key relationships between Laird senior personnel and speed capabilities have and customers won us business in 2013 Accelerated product roadmaps R&D Focus on Drive collaboration and innovation Scorecard: number innovation of granted patents Expansion of Business Design Centres providing local on-the-ground has increased to 665 innovation support December 2012, 570 Reduction in sampling lead times Continue to identify and penetrate new market segments and geographic Penetration of new market entry markets market segments and strategies geographies Target top tier OEMs in select vertical markets See Our community involvement in our CSR report on pages 38 to 40 as to how we work with people in areas where we have a significant business presence Continue to empower leadership teams to ensure managers have the Revenue growth Changing autonomy to make business decisions quickly See Recognising and our Company Further collaborative working rewarding performance culture section in the CSR report Encourage people to assess opportunity in the light of our long-term vision, on page 35 rather than as incremental adjustments to where we are today Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 17 07 03 2014 19:13 Chief Executives review continued Continued focus in 2014 in early 2014 we announced our expansion in new territories withinAsia.
Further manuPenetrating the Korean market was one of our facturing support strategic priorities for 2013, allowing us to diversify from Shenzhen, China our customer base and serve Korean customers with local operations.
Such proximity underpins our ability to manufacture reliably and our speed of delivery.
A new manufacturing facility has been established near Hanoi, Vietnam and further manufacturing support will be provided from our existing site in Shenzhen, China.
In order to engage with customers as design Design Centre manufacturing partners on innovation we are also expanding in Seoul, facility near korea our Business Design Centre in Seoul.
Hanoi, Vietnam Strategic outlook summary Lairds growth will come from a number of key drivers: From being in attractive end markets through clear market entry strategies and by progressing our customer diversification Having a disciplined approach to investment decisions Maximising market positions through our strategic differentiation Working collaboratively to sell a comprehensive solution to existing customers, and executing well Continuing to build strong relationships with our key customers Ensuring continued adherence to product and technology roadmaps and being focused on innovation Continued investment for sustainable growth that is customer informed and market led Ensuring Laird attracts and retains the best talent who will continue to drive forward our cultural change David Lockwood Chief Executive 18 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
