04 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer SINCE JOINING THE BUSINESS I HAVE MADE IT MY PRIORITY TO ENGAGE AND LISTEN TO ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
THE COMMON THEME FROM ALL OF THEM, FROM SHAREHOLDERS TO COMMUNITIES, IS A SHARED DESIRE FOR LONMIN TO SUCCEED.
Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer Looking forward Q.
What about the particular South African challenges you face as a platinum mining A.
First, its a good Company which can be a great company?
Company, which is an attractive prospect for any leader to be involved in.
We have strong assets, A. I have been around long enough to experience four resilient people with talent, pride and purpose.
Our economic cycles in the mining industry.
I remember growing operational credibility, safety record and a the gold crisis, I remember when the National Union strong team give us a good base to build on from of Mineworkers NUM was formed and I remember which we can effect real change and drive value.
union rivalry as far back as the early 1990s between Apart from the richness of the mineral endowment, NUM and Mouthpiece on the very soil we are mining the critical differentiator between one mining today.
There will always be challenges but it is how company and another is how people relate to one we deal with those challenges that sets us apart.
I am driven by the need to motivate our Mining is synonymous with South Africa: a growing people to go the extra mile for Lonmin.
South African economy needs a robust mining industry.
We need to stand up and lead, showing new ways of doing things.
What makes you the right man to lead Lonmin?
into the categories of economic empowerment, A. Thats really a question for the Board but what I can transformation and leadership.
Balancing the wish tell you is the experience I bring, both operationally for higher salaries, better benefits and improved and in relationship management.
My 22 years of living conditions is something we need to work experience in mining with Anglo American makes towards together and they are all linked to our me acutely aware of the challenges in our industry industrys financial reality.
To achieve these, it is and PGM markets.
I am passionate about mining necessary that the business is stable and runs at and cant think of any other industry that is more optimal levels and profits.
When everyone is pulling exciting.
It is an industry where our technical skills in that direction, everyone wins.
are as important as our people skills.
I cannot emphasise enough the importance of relationships That means a focus on operational excellence, value in delivering value migrating relationships from optimisation, cost control and mining for margins win-lose mindsets to win-win outcomes with all combined with a drive to build decent, dignified, stakeholders.
I care very much how we engage and prosperous and sustainable communities all driven collaborate, be it with our shareholders, employees, by the same tough delivery expectations.
managers, inspectors of mines, regulators, communities and our partners.
I think building a better working environment and ensuring our stakeholders want us to succeed too is as important as driving the hard numbers, and that approach has brought me some success so far.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 An Interview with the Chief Executive Officer Q.
So what has changed since you started?
How do you see the PGM industry today?
Team Lonmin is doing a lot of good things and A.
The industry is facing significant challenges but clearly there are still a number of challenges and the long-term fundamentals are strong.
Those opportunities that require us to work together to challenges are chiefly around price, including its realise the changes we want and need to restore volatility, as well as rising costs and increasingly Lonmin to its leading role as a PGM mining challenging technical mining conditions.
There have company that creates value for all its stakeholders.
been issues with over investment during periods of Im encouraged that we have made some significant high prices and, of course, we face the real threat to strides: the signing of the recognition agreement supply from recycling.
Frugal management of cash AMCU with our majority union AMCU on 14 August is one is therefore critical ahead of market recovery.
Flowing from that we are engaging wins are achievable, but we must work harder than agreement see p 30 for constructively with minority unions to find solutions ever to ensure we benefit from them when they come.
more information that will allow our business to thrive and all voices to be heard.
Secondly, on 29 October we donated Q.
What does the future hold?
50 hectares of serviced land to the Government A. I dont have a crystal ball but the robust long-term of the North West Province to be used for much fundamentals for PGMs coupled with Lonmins needed housing in the Marikana area.
The stable balance sheet, quality ore body and the anniversary of Marikana came and went without capacity and quality of its people offer great promise incident despite some 25,000 people attending for the future.
But simply waiting for it to happen an emotionally charged commemoration.
Between now and then we need to do financial year just ended we have delivered on our two things: win back the hearts and minds of our Renewal Plan, exceeded our ramp up expectations people and become a more efficient and effective and continued our journey towards zero harm.
Then we will make money for our are working hard to get it right and it is gratifying to shareholders and thereby grow the pie and bring see how much goodwill exists from stakeholders value for all our stakeholders too.
who want to see us succeed and share our success.
My view is that success will depend on our delivering: Q.
What about your leadership team?
Safety and operational excellence: delivering A.
We have an excellent team of individuals with great zero harm to people and the environment: competencies, capacity and capabilities.
We have Value optimisation: ensuring that our efforts from recently added new faces and new responsibilities mining and processing to sales and marketing, in order to create the agility and capacity needed to including procurement of goods and services, address our current and future challenges such as create the most value for our shareholders and stakeholder engagement and particularly reclaiming stakeholders: the management of our employees.
We are well placed to take Team Lonmin to the next level.
Industry collaboration: putting the collective resources and talents of our industry peers, Q.
What about Black Economic Empowerment trades unions and Government together to BEE and sharing of benefits?
contribute to social cohesion: BEE A.
Among those who live in the shadow of our Steady, visible improvement in social see p 33 for operations there is a perception that mining is more information infrastructure and sustainability: building support endlessly wealthy and this perception is supported from our stakeholders by proving to them by the sheer size of our infrastructure, all of which through our actions that a successful Lonmin creates huge levels of expectation.
Lonmins benefits their lives too: and Historically Disadvantaged South African HDSA Developing our people and relationships: this is ownership is currently at 18% and we are required the foundation upon which everything else is built.
in terms of the Mining Charter to increase this to 26% by December 2014.
The required increase in With the input of our employees, our management BEE ownership provides us with the opportunity to team and all other stakeholders, I believe all of this share equity with employees and communities, in a is possible.
way which is fair and equitable to all shareholders.
We need to grow and prosper in order to share Q.
Your message to Team Lonmin?
That means productivity and efficiencies A.
Lets individually and collectively put our shoulders must improve drastically.
to the wheel to make Lonmin what it can be a great mining Company delivering value to all Q.
Does Lonmin have enough capital to fund its our shareholders and stakeholders.
In November last year shareholders recapitalised the business and this together with a renegotiation of our debt facilities fide-risked our balance sheet and we are in a much better place.
Every economic sector goes through cycles of profitability and Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer financial stress and it is our aim over the next two years to fund our projects solely from our operations.
