STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT FOCUSED ON DELIVERY While the Group continued to make progress on the 2013 A TESTING YEAR broader safety front, the loss of 14 colleagues overshadowed improvements to lost-time and total accident frequency rates.
The year under review was an extremely testing The most significant event was the loss of four colleagues, with a further two still missing, at the now-divested Amap one for the mining industry.
Against a backdrop of iron ore operation in Brazil, where a major geological event following heavy rainfall led to the loss of the port operation.
weaker growth in the world economy, particularly Although the lost-time and total injury rates improved, we in the emerging economies, commodity demand are deeply distressed that people are still being killed and injured while on company business and I am determined remained soft with a decline in average realised that we elevate our focus on achieving zero harm.
prices for most of the commodities the Group produces.
The material exception was iron ore. AROUND THE OPERATIONS As the year progressed we continued to make solid progress at several of our major operations.
At Los Bronces Mark Cutifani and Collahuasi, our two biggest copper interests in Chile, operational improvements in waste stripping volumes and process tonnages supported a significant increase in copper production.
At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, which is currently constrained by waste material, resulting in insufficient exposed ore and a consequent fall-off in iron ore output, a redesign of the pit and changes to core operating processes should result in consistently higher production from 2015 For Anglo American, the effects of such a difficult macroonwards.
The Sishen challenges have been partially offset economic environment were exacerbated by operating by an impressive performance from Kolomela, which is now challenges at key operations and adversarial labour relations operating at well above nameplate capacity.
Meanwhile, in in South Africa.
Despite the challenges, significant operating Brazil, the 26.5 Mtpa Minas-Rio iron ore project was 84% improvements in Copper, Metallurgical Coal and Diamonds complete by the end of the year and remains on track to ship in the second half of the year, and the sharp fall in the South its first iron ore by the end of 2014.
African rand in the final quarter, drove a 6% increase in At our underground metallurgical coal mines, production underlying operating profit to $6.6billion, with underlying improved by 30%, with Moranbah North lifting longwall EBITDA increasing to $9.5 billion, up by 7%.
After deducting output by 39% on the back of an improvement in cutting tax and profits attributable to non-controlling interests hours, an increase in automated cutting rates and reduced including Diamonds, Platinum and Copper, which unplanned downtime.
Continued focus on discretionary costs represented a greater proportion of profit than in 2012, and productivity has resulted in FOB cash unit costs at the underlying earnings decreased by 7% to$2.7 billion.
In South Africa, the priority is to implement a range of business improvement PRODUCTION IMPROVEMENT initiatives aimed at driving value at our Thermal Coal mines AT OUR METALLURGICAL COAL and expansion projects.
UNDERGROUND MINES Ahead of the furnace rebuilds at Barro Alto in Brazil, which will take place from 2014-2016, our Nickel business has put in place a series of initiatives to improve output, reduce costs 30% and optimise value.
At our Niobium unit, the Boa Vista Fresh For more information Rock expansion project, which will raise niobium output by See page 60 around 50%, is due to be commissioned later this year.
On the Phosphates side of the business, margins are improving COMPLETION AT THE MINAS-RIO with more efficient sales pricing initiatives, and expansion IRON ORE PROJECT opportunities are being evaluated in order to meet the agriculture markets growing demand for fertilisers.
In 2013, our Platinum business faced significant challenges.
84% Cost pressures in the older, deep-level operations have been For more information driven by double-digit increases in power rates, declining See page 54 productivity and labour unrest.
If we add continuing price pressure exerted by declining automotive demand, this was a severely challenging year for the Platinum business.
We finalised a root-and-branch review of the business to address the changed fundamentals of the platinum industry and to understand the primary drivers of the dramatic reduction in profitability across the sector.
Following an extensive but 08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 01 02 01 Dr Nkosazana Dlamini constructive process of engagement with government and Just as importantly, we now know what we need to do to Zuma, Chairperson the unions, our labour force is being aligned with operational realise the value potential from such an attractive asset of the African Union Commission, with requirements.
We are putting the reviews proposals base.
Following the comprehensive asset review we put in Mark Cutifani at the into action across the business and concentrating on those train, as part of Driving Value, we have identified a range of Anglo American corporate office in assets with sustained profitability potential, while adjusting opportunities which will enable us to better utilise the installed Johannesburg.
production more closely with current product demand.
capital across our operations, further driving improved 02 Mark Cutifani margins and returns.
fide Beers had a good year and was able to increase output in conversation with finance director against a background of rising demand.
In Botswana, flagship Overall, our assets are in reasonable shape, but, crucially, Ren Mdori.
mine Jwaneng drove higher production as it recovered from a we need to lift returns by focusing on both capital slope failure in mid-2012, while Orapa recorded slightly higher deployment and operating performance.
In Canada, Snap Lake lifted the number of carats downturn we have seen the mining industrys return on recovered by around 50% as it revised mining methods and capital employed ROCE plummet from around 24% to operating practices.
Anglo Americans attributable ROCE fell to 11% in 2012 and 2013.
Considering the Companys cost of capital, that rate of return is not good enough for us, nor our OUR STRATEGY IS ALL ABOUT DELIVERY shareholders, and we have set a target for AngloAmerican We are making headway on our strategy, which builds off to reach a sustainable minimum 15% attributable ROCE three key elements: investing in high quality, competitively by 2016. positioned assets to create a portfolio of businesses that meet Strikingly, more than 80% of our earnings are derived from our customers changing needs: delivering sustainable value assets in the bottom half of the cost curve and, unsurprisingly, by organising our business, our people and the way we work we have put the spotlight on those that do not stack up in to outperform across the value chain, while mining safely and terms of expected ROCE, or which, in our view, do not have responsibly: and treating all of our stakeholders with care and the potential to deliver material improvements.
respect and partnering with them to reach their potential, starting with our employees.
During September, following a thorough assessment of our extensive pipeline of long-dated project options, we also In the short to medium term, we are doing so through a took the decision to withdraw from the Pebble copper project change programme called Driving Value, which focuses on in Alaska.
Our focus for the future is to prioritise capital for the immediate challenges of revitalising our business while projects with the highest value and lowest risk profiles within laying the foundation for success over the longer term.
We our portfolio, and to reduce the capital required to sustain have set demanding but achievable targets and we are such projects during the pre-approval phases of development determined to meet them by working efficiently and as part of a more effective, value-driven capital allocation effectively to drive significantly greater value from our asset model.
In 2013, this resulted in a reduction in exploration and base.
We are seeing early progress, including in our Platinum evaluation costs from $731 million in 2012, to $533 million.
and Metallurgical Coal businesses, across our Commercial initiatives and in reducing early stage project evaluation costs Driving Value includes managing our assets more efficiently by $200 million in 2013 alone.
Our pathway to increase and effectively.
To achieve that objective, we need to have the margins and returns by 2016 is clear.
right people in the right roles.
We are now making progress on a far-reaching restructuring programme from top to What is very apparent to me, after visiting as many bottom of the organisation.
We aim to strip out extraneous operations as I could during my first nine months in the job, layers of management in order to enable more direct is that Anglo American has several assets of the highest reporting and clearer responsibilities, and have already quality.
Sishen and Kolomela in iron ore: Los Bronces and reshaped the senior management team.
We have also partly Collahuasi in copper: Jwaneng, Orapa and Venetia in remodelled the business units by integrating our two Coal diamonds: Mogalakwena in platinum: and Moranbah North businesses and by combining Niobium and Phosphates with in metallurgical coal are all world-class assets in a quality, our Nickel business.
Across our Commercial unit which now diversified commodity portfolio.
These assets will be has two hubs, in Singapore and London, to be close to our augmented as major developing projects such as Minas-Rio major markets we are also making significant changes to and the Metallurgical Coal development at Grosvenor in the way we manage our marketing, sales and logistics Australia come on stream over the next three years.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 09 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Snap Lake, Canada Exploration activities at the Snap Lake diamond mine, located in the Northwest Territories.
Zibulo, South Africa Mark Cutifani visited Thermal Coals Zibulo colliery on Anglo Americans Minas-Rio, Brazil Global Safety Day 4 November 2013.
Filtration tanks at the Port of Au, from where the first iron ore from Minas-Rio is scheduled to be exported by the end of 2014.
Collahuasi, Chile An operator working at the casting wheel, where molten copper is poured into moulds to form copper cathodes.
Moranbah North, Australia Monitoring longwall underground mining operations on a smart board.
Los Bronces Chile OPERATIONS VISITED Collahuasi Chile Quellaveco project Peru During his first week in the role, new chief executive, Cerrejn Colombia Mark Cutifani, met a hundred senior managers based Minas-Rio project Brazil in London and across the businesses.
In the first eight Barro Alto Brazil months, he also met and spoke with a significant portion Codemin Brazil of the Groups top 400 managers, as well as several Niobium mining and processing operations Brazil hundred employees, corporate office staff and mine Boa Vista project Brazil operators.
In 2013, he visited all business units major Phosphates mine and fertiliser plant Brazil operations and projects, including: Moranbah North Australia Grosvenor project Australia Dawson Australia Peace River Coal Canada Snap Lake Canada Jwaneng Botswana Venetia South Africa Sishen South Africa Bathopele South Africa Mogalakwena South Africa Zibulo South Africa Singapore Commercial office Beijing representative office 10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report activities.
These are already enhancing margins and are We must apply our minds to how we can reallocate our expected to deliver an additional $400 million a year of resources to deliver better outcomes for stakeholders.
operating profit by 2016 on an attributable basis.
Mining companies with communities need to take a far more active role in reshaping our future to accept that We have identified approximately 85% of the incremental our long term prosperity depends on the strength of our EBIT necessary to achieve the level of return we expect from relationships with all of our stakeholders, to recognise that the business and we are working on the areas where we we have a responsibility to work collaboratively to realise see additional potential.
Our capital allocation process, for our shared purpose.
We need to put aside our sometimes example, has been rebuilt to enforce more stringent criteria short term competitive issues and concerns and assist each and controls.
This is expected to lead to a $400 million per other in rebuilding our relationship with our most important annum cash flow improvement in 2014 by recalibrating stakeholders.
It is only through greater cohesiveness and our project pipeline.
In 2013, we realised proceeds of almost co-operation on our part, and the support of our stakeholders, $400 million from non-core asset sales and we expect to that we will be able to provide sustainable financial returns make further savings of $500 million through a reduction in to shareholders.
We believe the focus on partnerships is overheads as well as supply chain savings of $100 million.
consistent with delivering sustainable improvements to Preserving our resource optionality for the future also our shareholders.
remains a priority within our project development pipeline and capital allocation analyses.
For example, following our recent stage-gate analysis of the Quellaveco copper project OUTLOOK in Peru, we are re-scoping a larger scale project to enhance The world economy should strengthen in 2014 and 2015 the economic case beyond our return criteria, while retaining as we continue to emerge from the challenges of the global government and community support.
China should continue to grow by around On the environmental front, the implementation of our water 7% and the diminishing effects of fiscal tightening should We have programme, WETT, has once again had a material impact support a firmer recovery in the US and beyond.
identified on improving our water efficiency across the Group.
We are The turbulence in emerging economies in 2013 has led to approximately trending ahead of the target set a 14% reduction against a more cautious assessment of their medium term growth 85% of the projected consumption in 2020 and delivered a calculated prospects.
Still, there are fundamental trends that indicate incremental saving of more than $85 million in 2013.
In addition, around support for continuing growth, particularly with the scope for EBIT necessary 67% of our total water needs are met by recycled water.
The further significant catch-up in living standards.
But we cannot to achieve the implementation of 206 energyand carbon-saving projects be complacent about this growth given the current challenges level of return since 2011, as part of our ECO MAN programme, delivered 2 in many economies.
There is an imperative for domestic we expect from savings of 4.3 million GJ of energy and 3.5 million tonnes of policymakers to implement much-needed reforms to unlock the business.
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in 2013.
avoided energy cost is estimated at $95.5 million.
While I expect headwinds to continue in 2014 as we reset the business, the benefits of much-improved operational THE BIGGER PICTURE processes and performance will flow through largely in 2015 Beyond our own Group, however, there is a bigger picture, and 2016.
In the immediate term, we have already delivered of which we are all a part.
We are among seven billion people significant sustainable improvements, including early who share this planet and in 10 years time we are likely to operational improvements, overhead reduction and reducing be a billion more.
Yet the mining industry is not supplying early-stage project expenditure.
the resources in sufficient quantities to support the worlds growth.
Declining productivity, spiralling costs, community ACKNOWLEDGEMENT activism, government intervention, deepening pits and lower ore grades, infrastructure challenges and the industrys poor I would like to thank our employees and contractors, as well image are hampering our projects and preventing us from as our many and varied stakeholders, for their dedication and delivering on societys needs.
I know I can count on you all as we continue to pursue our opportunities to deliver For one thing, we will have to change the way we mine.
Together, we are making a real difference.
cannot carry on doing business as usual if we are to supply the worlds needs in a responsible and sustainable way.
Finally, I wish to acknowledge the support and wise counsel Many of our business practices and operating models are of our chairman Sir John Parker and all members of the years behind other industries: we have much to learn Board during this period of dynamic change, the pursuit from them.
All mining companies will have to invest much of great opportunities and delivering on our potential.
more strategically in innovation simply to stay in business.
Furthermore, while many mining companies have made good progress in securing and retaining their social licences to operate, becoming pivotal partners in building long term social and physical infrastructure that creates a positive benefit for local and regional economies is becoming a Mark Cutifani mission-critical imperative.
Chief Executive Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 11
