Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 08 Chief Executives overview In a difficult marketplace M&S We have a clear plan to address our performed well, with sales up 1.3%.
performance, with a renewed Our Food business delivered an commitment to quality and style.
These excellent performance, as we improvements are reflected in our strengthened our position as a upcoming Autumn Winter collections and specialist retailer and benefited from our progress will continue step by step.
customers ongoing trust in our Food provenance and innovation.
Our GM Our Food business delivered a strong performance was unsatisfactory but performance throughout the year, up we took action and have set out a 3.9%.
Like-for-like sales were clear plan for improvement.
Our We have made good consistently ahead of the market, driven International business performed by our trusted quality, provenance and progress as we well and M&S.
com delivered strong ongoing innovation, which saw us refresh growth.
transform M&S from a 25% of our entire range.
M&S remains We continued to steer the business the destination of choice for special traditional British retailer through the challenges of todays occasion food.
Customers put M&S food into an international, market, remaining focused on our plan to at the heart of their celebrations, transform M&S from a traditional British resulting in a record Christmas and our multi-channel retailer.
retailer into a leading international best ever Easter performance.
At the end of the Chief Executive The launch of our Simply M&S range, second year of our plan, this strategy coupled with our well-targeted offers, remains as, if not more, relevant.
Over Revenue helped value conscious customers do the last 12 months, we have driven our more of their regular shop with M&S.
General Merchandise plan with real momentum.
Greater employee ownership of zones General Merchandise in our Food Halls enhanced customer 4.1bn 2.4% Clothing sales were not satisfactory this service and our improvements to space, year and we took decisive action to range and display delivered better Food improve performance.
A new team was on-shelf availability.
appointed to manage the business under Stores 4.9bn John Dixons leadership, supported by 3.9% Our new store concept has now been Belinda Earl in the newly created role of implemented in over two-thirds of our Style Director.
Multi-channel stores giving customers a clearer, Having improved our operational more inspirational in-store environment.
651.8m execution and stock management, our This year we started the second phase 16.6% customers benefited from better of our store transformation which availability.
In a highly promotional included the roll-out of our new International market, our tactical offers on selected M&S Beauty and Home concepts.
1.1bn 4.5% Our plan Drive UK International Drive like-for-like multi-channel retailer international growth presence UK space and A leading UK International like-for-like multi-channel retailer company growth Brand Clothing Home Focus on UK Food Stores 20122013 By 2015 Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 09 Both departments performed very well following the launch of new websites.
Transforming our business and feature the latest in multi-channel Enhanced visual merchandising in our To fulfil our international, multi-channel thinking driving customer engagement stores improved the clarity and ambitions, it is essential we have the and increased sales.
In August 2012, we consistency of the M&S brand and we infrastructure and organisational opened our flagship store at Cheshire made a number of improvements to our capabilities to drive this growth.
Since Oaks, which brought together all the international operations.
We also we launched our plan to transform M&S, elements of our new store format under strengthened our franchise relationships we have made considerable progress.
one roof for the first time.
and provided additional marketing We now have a stronger organisational support to our partners.
structure and a rich pool of talent across Multi-channel the business.
com sales accelerated this year and Brand on page 34, we have significantly grew ahead of the market at 16.6%.
Our brand is one of our strongest assets enhanced our supply chain operations Through a combination of better site and our advertising campaigns reflect with the opening of our first dedicated navigation, more style advice and greater how we are in touch with our customers e-commerce distribution centre at Castle choice, we increased weekly visitors to changing needs.
This year, we used a Donington.
We have also made good 3.6 million.
We further improved our selection of models representing a range progress with our systems upgrades and popular Shop Your Way option, with free of ages and sizes: better reflecting our our new multi-channel platform build is next day delivery to stores and provided customer base and showing our on schedule for launch next spring.
customers with more inspiration and customers how to wear the seasons key choice through the introduction of new looks.
Towards the end of the year, our in-store technologies.
We also launched Perfectly campaign featured an edited several brand new ways to shop with collection of iconic products from our M&S, including our first ever transactional womenswear range.
We bought with iPhone app.
confidence into these advertised lines and sales increased as a result.
International International sales were up 4.5% this Our recently launched Make Today year.
We saw double digit growth in our Delicious campaign encourages Marc Bolland priority markets but experienced more customers to make every food moment Chief Executive challenging conditions in our legacy special with our innovative, quality food.
We expanded our Plan A presence with a multi-channel approach, We believe our customers are the driving opening 45 stores and putting M&S force for change and over five million online locally in a total of ten territories, customers participated in Plan A activities this year.
We stepped up our efforts to engage them in more sustainable living through a range of initiatives including Shwopping, which Looking ahead has already helped divert 3.8 million garments from landfill, and our Big The market will remain challenging for Beach Clean-Up.
Our five year the foreseeable future and we expect anniversary in 2012 marked a major consumer spending to remain milestone in our journey but we have cautious and carefully planned.
renewed our efforts to fulfil and exceed However, our attention to delivering our own commitments.
We also worked exceptional quality and marketto extend our influence and share our leading innovation means we are well learning beyond M&S to our positioned to navigate through the customers, suppliers and the wider short term.
We remain fully committed to the delivery of our plan: ensuring that as Our greenest ever store we evolve we remain in touch with Plan A ambassador Joanna Lumley our customers so that we can joined us for the opening of our anticipate and respond to their greenest ever store at Cheshire Oaks.
As well as establishing leading eco credentials, it created more than Our transformation of M&S into a 350 jobs in the area.
leading multi-channel retailer will be supported by the creation of stronger, Discover more online more agile infrastructure building a robust platform for our long-term growth.
Please turn over the page to see the highlights of our plan in action.
