INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MEGGITT PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Expense and the related notes.
These group financial statements have and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group AND AUDITORS financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and in the group financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other for the year then ended: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown the group financial statements have been properly prepared in or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS prior consent in writing.
Regulation: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have group financial statements.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes specific information cross referenced from the Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report to the  LLP Business Review.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 2 March 2009 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises Meggitt at a Glance, Financial Highlights, Overview, Chairmans Statement, Group Strategic Objectives, Strategy Implementation, Market Review, Business Review, Risks and Uncertainties, Aerospace Equipment, Sensing Systems, Defence Systems, Corporate Responsibility, Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, Directors Statement on Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the other information listed in the contents to the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Financial statements 51 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
