INTRODUCTION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & NOTES Independent auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Melrose PLC We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as on the consolidated financial statements described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Melrose PLC with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider the for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 30. information outside the Annual Report.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Basis of audit opinion information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on as having been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An We have reported separately on the parent Company financial audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the statements of Melrose PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008. amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, information and explanations which we considered necessary in order for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors Remuneration report to be audited are free from material The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Directors Remuneration report and the consolidated financial forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statements in accordance with applicable law and International presentation of information in the consolidated financial statements Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements Opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in for the year then ended: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the described as having been audited has been properly prepared in IAS Regulation: accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is the part of the Directors Remuneration report described as having consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
The information been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the given in the Directors report includes that specific information Companies Act 1985: and presented in the Business review, Chief Executives review and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Finance Directors review that is cross referred from the Business consolidated financial statements.
Review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with and other transactions is not disclosed.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended.
required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the DELOITTE LLP effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors or its risk and control procedures.
London, United Kingdom 11 March 2009 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 41
