report oF the auDItor Independent Auditor Report to the Members of Millennium & We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Copthorne Hotels Plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of the financial statements of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc for any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance information.
Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
Basis of Audit Opinion These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by Auditing Practices Board.
An the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 54 to 60 as is audit includes examination on a test basis, of evidence relevant to described as being audited.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements and audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Opinion Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on In our opinion: page 48. the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Regulation: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly information presented in the financial, operating and risk factors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and sections of the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report on page 46. the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the KPMG Audit Plc Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Chartered Accountants Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Registered Auditor Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required 8 Salisbury Square to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover London EC4Y 8BB all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
17 February 2009 62 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 63
