FiNANciAL stAteMeNts AuDIT oPINIoN FoR ThE MISyS PlC GRouP INDEPENDENT AuDIToRS REPoRT To ThE MEMBERS oF MISyS PlC We have audited the Group financial statements of Misys plc for Basis of audit opinion the year ended 31 May 2008 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with international income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the standards on Auditing UK and ireland issued by the Auditing consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
these evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Group financial statements have been prepared under the financial statements.
it also includes an assessment of the accounting policies set out therein.
significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the We have reported separately on the parent company financial accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2008 and on consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the Group financial statements are free from and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other law and international Financial Reporting standards iFRss as irregularity or error.
in forming our opinion we also evaluated the adopted by the european Union are set out in the statement of overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Directors Responsibilities.
our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in our opinion: international standards on Auditing UK and ireland.
this report, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the accordance with iFRss as adopted by the european Union, of companys members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2008 and of its the companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in profit and cash flows for the year then ended: giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the Group financial statements have been properly prepared purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in accordance with the companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the iAs Regulation: and our prior consent in writing.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance  llP with the companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the iAs Regulation.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We also report to you whether in our opinion the information London given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group 24 July 2008 financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the chairmans statement, chief executives Review, operational Review and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors Report.
in addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate Governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the combined code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
the other information comprises only the information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
54 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
