FiNANciAL stAteMeNts AuDIT oPINIoN FoR ThE MISyS PlC PARENT CoMPANy oNly INDEPENDENT AuDIToRS REPoRT To ThE MEMBERS oF MISyS PlC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2008 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with international balance sheet and the related notes.
these parent company standards on Auditing UK and ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements have been prepared under the accounting practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having parent company financial statements and the part of the been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
it also includes statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2008. an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting standards United Kingdom Generally We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Accepted Accounting practice are set out in the statement of information and explanations which we considered necessary in Directors Responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory irregularity or error.
in forming our opinion we also evaluated the requirements and international standards on Auditing UK and overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent ireland.
this report, including the opinion, has been prepared for company financial statements and the part of the Directors and only for the companys members as a body in accordance Remuneration Report to be audited.
with section 235 of the companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Opinion responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to in our opinion: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save the parent company financial statements give a true and fair where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting practice, of the state of the companys affairs as We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company at 31 May 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the parent company financial statements and the part of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly properly prepared in accordance with the companies Act prepared in accordance with the companies Act 1985.
We also 1985: and report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial with the parent company financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the chairmans statement, chief executives Review, operational Review and  llP Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors section of the Directors Report.
London 24 July 2008 in addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
the other information comprises only the information listed on the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 91 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
