415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Financial statements Independent auditors' report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 27 September 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards which comprise of the Balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 15. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial information in the Remuneration report that is described as having statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended 27 September 2008. are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the Remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting In our opinion: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the parent company financial statements give a true and fair are set out in the Directors responsibility statement.
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs as at Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements 27 September 2008: and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance the parent company financial statements and the part of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the parent company financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Ernst & Young LLP to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Registered auditor Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion London the information given in the parent company Directors' report is 25 November 2008 consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement and the Operating and financial review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Mitchells & Butlers 103 Annual report and accounts 2008
