Reports Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 27 September 2008 which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the Group statement of recognised income and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant and the related notes 1 to 33.
These Group financial statements to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and 27 September 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration adequately disclosed.
report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the of information in the Group financial statements.
Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 September 2008 Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards and of its profit for the year then ended: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Directors responsibility statement.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Group financial statements.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Ernst & Young LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Registered auditor statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial London statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the 25 November 2008 Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors' report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Operating and financial review and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Mitchells & Butlers 64 Annual report and accounts 2008
