Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the group financial statements of MITIE Group Basis of audit opinion PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Consolidated cash ow statement, the Consolidated statement Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of recognised income and expense and the related Notes 1 to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group 36.
These group financial statements have been prepared under financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant information in the Directors remuneration report that is described estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation as having been audited.
of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently We have reported separately on the parent company financial applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the companys members those matters we are required to state to directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of to anyone other than the company and the companys members the presentation of information in the group financial statements as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the group financial statements The group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in accordance with applicable law and International Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its pro t for set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
IAS Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial The part of the Directors remuneration report described as having statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the whether the part of the Directors remuneration report described as group financial statements.
having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that speci c information presented in the Deloitte & Touche LLP Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors review, the Financial review and the Corporate governance statement that is cross referred from the Business review section Bristol, United Kingdom of the Directors report.
19 May 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
60 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
