Independent auditors report to the members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the company balance sheet and the related Notes 37 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to 50.
These parent company financial statements have been Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the We have reported separately on the group financial statements parent company financial statements.
It also includes an of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made information in the Directors remuneration report that is described by the directors in the preparation of the parent company as having been audited.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys members those matters we are required to state information and explanations which we considered necessary to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance that the parent company financial statements are free responsibility to anyone other than the company and the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors remuneration report and the parent company In our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The parent company financial statements give a true and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys Statement of directors responsibilities.
affairs as at 31 March 2008: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial The parent company financial statements have been properly statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK The information given in the Directors report is consistent with and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Deloitte & Touche LLP Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes Bristol, United Kingdom that specific information presented in the Chairmans statement, 19 May 2008 the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review and the Corporate governance statement that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
90 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
