Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi Limited Report on the financial statements Opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of Mondi Limited for the In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the directors report, material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and the Mondi Group as of 31 December 2008, and of its combined and consolidated balance sheet, the combined and consolidated cash flow consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated statement and the combined and consolidated statement of recognised cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International income and expense for the year then ended, the summary of significant Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the accounting policies, and the explanatory notes 2 to 41.
Companies Act of South Africa for South African companies.
Deloitte & Touche Directors responsibility for the B Nosworthy financial statements Partner Sandton The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and 25 February 2009 fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required Deloitte & Touche by the Companies Act of South Africa for South African companies.
Registered Auditors This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining Building 1 and 2, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Republic of South Africa due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting National Executive: G G Gelink Chief Executive, A E Swiegers Chief policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in Operating Officer, G M Pinnock Audit, D L Kennedy Tax, Legal and the circumstances.
Financial Advisory, L Geeringh Consulting, L Bam Corporate Finance, C R Beukman Finance, T J Brown Clients & Markets, N T Mtoba Auditors responsibility Chairman of the Board Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Group financial A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 51 Shareholder information F Fi in na an nc cial ial s st ta at te eme men nt ts s
