Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Mondi plc for the Respective responsibilities of directors year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the combined and and auditors consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, balance sheet, the combined and consolidated cash flow statement, the combined and consolidated statement of recognised income the directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting and expense and the related notes 1 to 41.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Directors responsibility statement.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in We have reported separately on the parent company financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and statements of Mondi plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and whether report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes specific information presented in other sections of the annual report that is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
52 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes of its loss for the year then ended: an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Regulations: We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information the part of the directors remuneration report described as having and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Companies Act 1985: and financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the information given in the directors report is consistent with the to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Group financial statements.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 25 February 2009 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 53 Financial statements
