Independent Auditors Report on the Group Financial Statements to the Members of Antofagasta plc We have audited the Group financial statements of been audited has been properly prepared in Antofagasta plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also which comprise the consolidated income statement, report to you whether in our opinion the information the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash given in the Directors Report is consistent with the flow statement, the consolidated statement of Group financial statements.
The information given in changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 41. the Directors Report includes that specific information These Group financial statements have been prepared presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Business under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate also audited the information in the Remuneration Sustainability report and the Corporate Governance Report that is described as having been audited.
report that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Antofagasta plc for the year In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have ended 31 December 2008. not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys members, regarding Directors remuneration and other as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the transactions is not disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We review whether the Corporate Governance report members those matters we are required to state to reflects the Companys compliance with the nine them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We the Company and the Companys members as a body, are not required to consider whether the Boards for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions statements on internal control cover all risks and we have formed.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its Respective Responsibilities of risk and control procedures.
Directors and Auditors We read the other information contained in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Annual Report as described in the contents section Report, the Remuneration Report and the Group and consider whether it is consistent with the financial statements in accordance with applicable law audited Group financial statements.
We consider and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the implications for our report if we become as adopted by the European Union are set out in the aware of any apparent misstatements or material Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial Our responsibilities do not extend to any further statements in accordance with relevant legal and information outside the Annual Report.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland financial statements give a true and fair view, whether issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the Group financial statements have been properly includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration part of the Remuneration Report described as having Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 70 Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 9 March 2009 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 71
