QXD 5 3 09 09:18 Page 49 Corporate governance statement Remuneration Audit Nominations Board committee committee committee Total no.
of meetings 10 3 3 1 John Morgan 10 1 Paul Smith 10 David Mulligan 10 Paul Whitmore 10 Bernard Asher 8 3 3 1 Gill Barr 8 2 3 1 Geraldine Gallacher 10 3 1 Adrian Martin Jon Walden 10 3 3 1 1 No board meetings or audit committee meetings were held in December 2008 following Adrian Martins appointment.
Development and Board evaluation Newly appointed directors receive a full induction, including a analysts following the announcements of the preliminary detailed information pack, visits to the Groups operations and and interim results.
Written feedback from these meetings meetings with senior divisional management.
Training on the and presentations is distributed to all members of the Board.
role and responsibilities of directors is offered on appointment The senior independent director meets from time to time and subsequently as necessary.
In particular, the directors with major shareholders and the other non-executive directors have received guidance on the changes relevant to directors are available to meet with them to listen to their views.
There are agreed procedures The Company encourages all shareholders to use the annual by which directors are able to take independent professional general meeting as an opportunity for effective communication advice, at the expense of the Company, on matters relating to with the Company.
All of the directors seek to attend the their duties.
The directors also have access to the advice and annual general meeting.
Due to unavoidable conflicting services of the company secretary.
commitments, however, neither the chair of the audit An evaluation was carried out of the Boards performance, and committee nor the chair of the remuneration committee that of its committees, during the year, focusing primarily on was able to be present at the 2008 annual general meeting.
the effectiveness of the Board and its scheduled Board and Other members of the Board were briefed to answer any committee meetings.
This took the form of an internally questions in these areas.
Details of proxy votes submitted for developed assessment form, requiring each director to provide each resolution at general meetings, including proxy directions a rating against a series of statements and any additional to withhold votes, are published on the Companys website.
Evaluation of individual directors took the form of feedback from the other directors, which was followed by one Board committees to one meetings between the chairman and each director and, The Board has established three committees: namely the in the case of the chairmans evaluation, between himself and remuneration, nominations and audit committees.
The evaluations of the directors Remuneration committee concentrated on their individual effectiveness and their continued The members of the remuneration committee during 2008 contribution and commitment to the role.
The responses to the were Gill Barr chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden and assessment form were circulated and discussed at a subsequent Geraldine Gallacher.
Adrian Martin will join the committee Board meeting and a number of actions were agreed.
upon Bernard Ashers retirement from the Board at the annual general meeting.
The remuneration committees Relations with shareholders terms of reference are available for review on request and on The Company welcomes regular dialogue with all its the Companys website under the investor relations section.
Three meetings were held in the year covering all elements of the directors remuneration.
The executive directors undertake a programme of regular communication with institutional shareholders and with A report to shareholders on directors remuneration is shown analysts covering the construction sector.
In particular, on pages 40 to 47. presentations are made to institutional investors and 49 83067 Directors.
QXD 5 3 09 09:18 Page 50 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Nominations committee The members of the nominations committee during 2008 were In addition, the committee is responsible for reviewing the John Morgan chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden, Gill Barr, Companys internal financial controls and internal audit activities Geraldine Gallacher and, following his appointment, Adrian and it received and reviewed at the meetings reports of the Martin.
The terms of reference for the committee establish internal audit activity during the year and the internal audit a framework through which it can review the balance and plan for 2009.
The committee also reviewed the Groups effectiveness of the Board to ensure suitable candidates are whistle blowing policy containing arrangements by which identified and recommended for appointment to the Board and employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible the various Board committees.
These terms of reference are improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
available for review on request and on the Companys website.
The chairman of the audit committee reports to the full Board As referred to above, the nominations committee met formally on matters of significance arising at meetings of the committee.
during the year to review the structure, size and composition The audit committee is also responsible for making of the Board and to recommend to the Board the appointment recommendations to the Board on the appointment or of Adrian Martin as an additional non-executive director.
It also re-appointment of the external auditors, approving their met informally on several occasions to review the non executive remuneration and monitoring their independence and objectivity.
This process, which continued for At the meeting of the committee in February, the external most of 2008, involved agreeing the specific attributes and auditors, Deloitte LLP, presented to the committee their policies capabilities required for the role, instructing external search and safeguards to ensure their independence within the meaning consultants, arranging interviews by individual members of of all regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity the committee and in some cases by the executive directors of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
with candidates proposed both by the consultants and other Those policies and safeguards, together with the Companys advisers and discussing the results of the interviews.
own policy on engaging the external auditors for non-audit work, Audit committee enabled the committee to confirm that it was satisfied with The members of the audit committee during 2008 were Deloitte LLPs continued independence and objectivity.
Bernard Asher, Jon Walden and Gill Barr.
Adrian Martin also The Companys policy on the engagement of the external joined the committee on his appointment on 1 December auditors for non-audit related services provides that where 2008, although no meetings were held during the remainder the fees for such services would exceed either an absolute of the year.
Bernard Asher chaired the committee until 6 October limit or a specified proportion of the audit fee, they should be 2008, when Jon Walden assumed the role.
All committee referred to the committee for approval.
Any such services members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographical below the threshold have to be approved by the finance details of each member of the committee, including financial director.
No non-audit services to the Company provided by experience where relevant, are set out on pages 34 to 35.
Deloitte LLP in 2008 required the approval of the committee.
The Board is satisfied that the committee has the appropriate The fees for non-audit services during the year are set out in level of financial experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 70.
The terms of reference of the committee are available for These represented approximately 15% of the audit fee and review on request and on the Companys website.
comprised taxation services to joint ventures.
The committee The committee had three scheduled meetings during the has reviewed the nature of the work and level of fees for year.
The first took place prior to the announcement of the these services and concluded that this has not affected Companys results for 2007 and approval of the annual report, the objectivity or the independence of the external auditors.
the second prior to the announcement of its interim results and the third before commencement of the audit for 2008.
Internal control statement Senior representatives from the external auditors, the finance The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility director and the group head of audit and assurance were for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing invited to attend each of these meetings.
The internal control system is designed to ensured, however, that it had the opportunity after each manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve meeting to meet privately with the external auditors.
It can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The main purpose of the meetings was to review the scope loss.
The system of internal control, which includes financial, and results of the audit and the effectiveness of the external operational and compliance controls, is based on a process audit process, to monitor the integrity of the annual and of identifying, evaluating and managing risks.
It accords with interim financial statements and to discuss with the external auditors their overall work plan for the forthcoming audit.
