Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of 888 Holdings Public Limited Company We have audited the Group and the Company financial statements the financial statements of 888 Holdings Public Limited Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses and the related notes 1 to 26 to the Group Financial Statements and notes 1 to 12 to the Company Financial Statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the parts of the remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company has complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules in preparing its Annual Report and has also complied with schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 as if it was incorporated in the UK.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited, has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Enhanced Business Review, Risk report, Corporate Social Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
indd 48 08 04 2009 11:18 08 04 2009 11:18 16254 8 4 2009 Proof 7 Opinion In our opinion: l the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: and l the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act: and l the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985: and l the information provided in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements: and l we have nothing to report to you in respect of our responsibility set out above in relation to the Company keeping proper accounting records, the auditors receiving information and explanations for our audit and disclosures regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions Emphasis of Matter Regulatory issues In forming our opinion, which is not qualified, we have considered the adequacy of, and draw attention to, the disclosures made in note 26 to the financial statements concerning the residual risk of an adverse impact arising from the Group having had customers in the US prior to the enactment of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act.
Note 26 includes a statement that the Board has not been able to identify reliably at this stage what, if any, liability may arise and accordingly no provision has been made.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP BDO Orion Limited Chartered Accountants Registered Auditors 55 Baker Street Montagu Pavilion London 810 Queensway W1U 7EU Gibraltar UK 30 March 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 16254888COM BACK.
