Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Mouchel Group plc We have audited the Group and Company Financial Statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the Financial Statements of Mouchel Group plc for the year ended whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other 31 July 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group information comprises only the Highlights, Mouchel at a Glance, the and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, Group and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate and the related notes.
These Financial Statements have been prepared Governance Report and the Five-year Financial Summary.
We consider under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud agreed by our prior consent in writing.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and be audited.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, Opinion as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the information presented in the Business Review that is cross-referred Groups affairs as at 31 July 2008 and of its profit and cash flows from the business review section of the Directors Report.
for the year then ended: the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2008: specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration transactions is not disclosed.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial the Financial Statements.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups  LLP corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 28 October 2008 Group Financial Statements 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 61 Mouchel Group plc
