Independent Auditors Report to the Members of National Express Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 39.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes the specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 26 February 2009 National Express Group PLC 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
