Independent auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc the Company Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, the Directors and for the year ended 31 March 2008 on pages 33 to 66 which comprise the accounting policies, Auditors adoption of new accounting standards, consolidated income statements, consolidated balance The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements are determined by the sheets, consolidated statements of recognised income and expense, consolidated cash flow Authority.
It is not appropriate for the auditors or the directors to assess whether the nature of the statements and the related notes to the regulatory accounting statements.
information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for the Authoritys purposes.
Accordingly we make no such assessment.
This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the Authority in order to meet the requirements of Standard The directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the regulatory accounting statements Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Regulatory Licence granted to the Company, being and for compliance with the Condition, as described on page 30. the Gas Transporter Licence in respect of the NTS dated 18 April 2008.
Our audit work has been Our responsibility is to audit the regulatory accounting statements in accordance with International undertaken so that we might state to the Company and the Authority those matters we have Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board, except as stated agreed to state to them in our report, in order to: a assist the Company to meet its obligations in the Basis of audit opinion, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 under the Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate the carrying out by the Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities.
Authority of its regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We report to you our opinion as to whether the regulatory accounting statements have been Authority for our audit work, for this report or the opinions we have formed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Condition and, in respect of each of its NTS business, LNG storage business, the fide-minimis business and the other activities, whether they fairly Basis of preparation present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of, or reasonably attributable The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention to those businesses.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting and in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 33 to 39. records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Note 31 includes disclosure of the revenues and costs of fide-minimis business and other activities We read the other information contained in the regulatory accounting statements, on which we do and note 32 includes disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of National Grid not express an audit opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of plc or amounts determined by apportionment.
The Condition requires these disclosures to be any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the regulatory accounting made to the Authority, but allow the Company to remove these disclosures from the information statements.
The other information comprises: about regulatory accounting statements: the made available to the public as per paragraph 10 of the Condition.
Operating and Financial Review: the corporate governance statement and the Directors Report.
The regulatory accounting statements are separate from the statutory financial statements of the Company.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 31 Independent auditors report - continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland In our opinion, on the basis set out above, the regulatory accounting statements fairly present in issued by the Auditing Practices Board except as noted below.
An audit includes examination, on accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 33 to 38, the state of a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the regulatory accounting affairs of the Companys NTS business, LNG storage business, fide-minimis activities and other statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by activities at 31 March 2008 and the profit and cash flows of its NTS business, LNG storage the Directors in the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements and of whether the business, fide-minimis activities and other activities for the year then ended and have been accounting policies are consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
However, as the nature, form and content of the regulatory accounting statements are determined by the Authority, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the presentation of information, which would have been required if we were to  LLP express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Cornwall Court Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory 19 Cornwall Street financial statements of the Company on which we reported on 5 June 2008, which are prepared Birmingham for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial statements of the B3 2DT 25 July 2008 Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Statutory audit work was 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is the responsibility of the Directors and the maintenance undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Authority: the work carried out by the auditors does state to them in a Statutory auditors report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Statutory audit work, for our 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and Statutory audit report, or for the opinions we have formed in respect of that Statutory audit.
regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to be drawn up on the basis set out therein, including the separate disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of National Grid plc or determined by apportionment.
The Directors of National Grid Gas plc are responsible for determining the bases of charges and apportionments, which requires a number of judgements and assumptions to be made.
We do not give an opinion on the appropriateness of the bases of charges and apportionments.
32 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08
