38 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Independent Auditors report to the Members of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the consolidated and Company financial listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding statements the financial statements of National Grid Gas plc the 2008 audited financial statements.
We consider the for the year ended 31 March 2008, which comprise the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the information.
Accounting policies and Company accounting policies, the Basis of audit opinion Adoption of new accounting standards, the Notes to the We conducted our audit in accordance with International consolidated financial statements and the Notes to the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Company financial statements.
These financial statements have Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for preparing Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately the Company financial statements in accordance with disclosed.
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are information and explanations which we considered necessary in set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in assurance that the financial statements are free from material accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section statements.
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We Opinion do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for In our opinion: any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 March 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial then ended: statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the consolidated financial statements have been properly Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the consolidated prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and financial statements have been properly prepared in Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report the Company financial statements give a true and fair to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the The information given in the Directors Report includes that Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: specific information presented in the Operating and Financial the Company financial statements have been properly Review that is cross-referred from the principal activities and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: business review section of the Directors Report.
and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has with the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Birmingham statements.
The other information comprises only the items 5 June 2008
