Independent auditors report Group financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects We have audited the Group financial statements of Northern Foods the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 which comprise the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements statement of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 39. on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance These Group financial statements have been prepared under procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described We read the other information contained in the Annual report as having been audited.
as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial We consider the implications for our report if we become aware statements of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies 29 March 2008. with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Basis of audit opinion Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with International state to the Companys members those matters we are required Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European information and explanations which we considered necessary Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable.
assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial report to be audited.
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Opinion the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation In our opinion: and whether the part of the Directors remuneration report the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in described as having been audited has been properly prepared accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 March 2008 and of its you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors profit for the 52 weeks then ended: report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The the Group financial statements have been properly prepared information given in the Directors report includes that specific in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of information presented in the Performance review and the Chief the IAS Regulation: executives report that is cross referred from the Performance the part of the Directors remuneration report described review section of the Directors report.
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received the information given in the Directors report is consistent all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or with the Group financial statements.
if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 27 May 2008 Northern Foods plc | Independent auditors report Group financial statements 55
