Northgate AR&A 2008 Front AW:x69614 Rhouse front p2 cg 23 7 08 16:31 Page 28 DIRECTORS INDEPENDENTAUDITORS REPORT RESPONSIBILITIES TOTHE MEMBERS OF NORTHGATE PLC The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements the We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the financial statements of Northgate plc for the year ended 30 April 2008 in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL REPORT, Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Statements, the Notes to the Cash Flow Statements, the Group and financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group Statement of information outside the Annual Report.
ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW Recognised Income and Expense and the related Notes 1 to 40.
These The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of AND REGULATIONS.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the corporate and financial information included on the Companys out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation each financial year.
The Directors are required by the EU IAS Regulation to includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts in other jurisdictions.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in prepare the group financial statements under International Financial and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members  STATEMENT have also elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of applied and adequately disclosed.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as we have formed.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information a whole: and present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with the Operational and Financial Reviews which are incorporated into financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the Directors report, include a fair review of the development and representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free performance of the business and the position of the Company and the in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, GOING CONCERN of Directors Responsibilities.
Directors are also required to: The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the properly select and apply accounting policies: Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate In our opinion: Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable By order of the Board UK and Ireland.
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups information: and affairs as at 30 April 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: R Contreras We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Director the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand 30 June 2008 accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
state of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2008: the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the Operational Review and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Deloitte & Touche LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Leeds 30 June 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
