Section 6 Financial statements 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc We have audited the Group and company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the statements together the financial statements of company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Pearson plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The have not received all the information and explanations Group financial statements comprise the consolidated we require for our audit, or if information specified by law income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the regarding directors remuneration and other transactions consolidated statement of recognised income and is not disclosed.
expense, the consolidated cash flow statement and the We review whether the corporate governance statement related notes to the consolidated financial statements.
reflects the companys compliance with the nine The company financial statements comprise the provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for company statement of recognised income and expense, our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the company balance sheet, the company cash flow Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not statement and the related notes to the company required to consider whether the boards statements on financial statements.
These financial statements have internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an been prepared under the accounting policies set out opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate therein.
We have also audited the information in the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
report on directors remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in the annual report and accounts and consider whether it is consistent with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises the introduction, the directors report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual excluding the audited part of the report on directors report and accounts in accordance with applicable law remuneration and the unaudited parts of the financial and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs statements section.
We consider the implications for as adopted by the European Union are set out in the our report if we become aware of any apparent statement of directors responsibilities.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend and the part of the report on directors remuneration to any other information.
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Basis of audit opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the We conducted our audit in accordance with International opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the companys members as a body in accordance with Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or disclosures in the financial statements and the part of assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any the report on directors remuneration to be audited.
It other person to whom this report is shown or into whose also includes an assessment of the significant estimates hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our and judgements made by the directors in the preparation prior consent in writing.
of the financial statements, and of whether the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and statements give a true and fair view and whether the companys circumstances, consistently applied and financial statements and the part of the report on adequately disclosed.
directors remuneration to be audited have been properly We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the information and explanations which we considered and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in to give reasonable assurance that the financial our opinion the information given in the directors report statements and the part of the report on directors comprising the sections Strategy, Performance, Impact remuneration to be audited are free from material on society and Governance is consistent with the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other financial statements.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited.
78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc continued Opinion In our opinion: The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: The financial statements and the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London 6 March 2009
