 audited have been properly prepared in made by the Directors in the preparation INDEPENDENTAUDITORS accordance with the Companies Act 1985 of the financial statements, and of REPORTTOTHEMEMBERS and, as regards the group financial whether the accounting policies are OFPENNONGROUPPLC statements, Article 4 of the IAS appropriate to the Groups and Companys Regulation.
We also report to you circumstances, consistently applied and We have audited the group and parent whether in our opinion the information adequately disclosed.
 thefinancial given in the Directors' report is statements of Pennon Group Plc for the We planned and performed our audit so consistent with the financial statements.
year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise as to obtain all the information and the Consolidated income statement, the In addition we report to you if, in our explanations which we considered opinion, the company has not kept Group statement of recognised income necessary in order to provide us with and expense, the Company statement proper accounting records, if we have sufficient evidence to give reasonable not received all the information and of recognised income and expense, the assurance that the financial statements Group balance sheet, the Company explanations we require for our audit, or and the part of the Directors if information specified by law regarding balance sheet, the Group cash flow remuneration report to be audited are free directors remuneration and other statement, the Company cash flow from material misstatement, whether transactions is not disclosed.
statement and the related notes.
caused by fraud or other irregularity These financial statements have been or error.
In forming our opinion we also We review whether the Corporate prepared under the accounting policies evaluated the overall adequacy of the Governance Statement reflects the set out therein.
We have also audited presentation of information in the companys compliance with the nine the information in the Directors provisions of the Combined Code 2006 financial statements and the part of remuneration report that is described the Directors remuneration report to specified for our review by the Listing as having been audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, be audited.
and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards RESPECTIVE OPINION statements on internal control cover all RESPONSIBILITIESOF risks and controls, or form an opinion on DIRECTORSANDAUDITORS In our opinion: the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and the Group financial statements give a The Directors responsibilities for control procedures.
true and fair view, in accordance with preparing the Annual Report, the IFRS as adopted by the European Directors remuneration report and the We read other information contained in Union, of the state of the Groups financial statements in accordance with the Annual Report and consider whether affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of applicable law and International Financial it is consistent with the audited financial its profit and cash flows for the year statements.
The other information Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by then ended: comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the European Union are set out in the the Chief Executives overviews, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the Company financial statements give business review, the Directors report, a true and fair view, in accordance with Our responsibility is to audit the financial the unaudited part of the Directors IFRS as adopted by the European statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report and the Board of Union as applied in accordance with remuneration report to be audited in Directors statement on corporate the provisions of the Companies Act accordance with relevant legal and governance and internal control.
1985, of the state of the Companys regulatory requirements and International We consider the implications for our affairs as at 31 March 2008 and cash Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
report if we become aware of any flows for the year then ended: This report, including the opinion, has apparent misstatements or material been prepared for and only for the inconsistencies with the financial the financial statements and the part companys members as a body in statements.
Our responsibilities do not of the Directors remuneration report extend to any other information.
accordance with Section 235 of the to be audited have been properly Companies Act 1985 and for no other prepared in accordance with the purpose.
We do not, in giving this Companies Act 1985 and, as regards BASISOFAUDITOPINION opinion, accept or assume responsibility the group financial statements, Article for any other purpose or to any other 4 of the IAS Regulation: and We conducted our audit in accordance person to whom this report is shown or with International Standards on Auditing the information given in the Directors into whose hands it may come save where UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing report is consistent with the financial expressly agreed by our prior consent Practices Board.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence  LLP We report to you our opinion as to relevant to the amounts and disclosures in whether the financial statements give a the financial statements and the part of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors true and fair view and whether the the Directors remuneration report to be Bristol financial statements and the part of the audited.
It also includes an assessment of Directors remuneration report to be the significant estimates and judgements 26 June 2008 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 57
