76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited We have audited the group financial statements of Petrofac Limited We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the Company and its subsidiaries together the group for the consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the Statement, the Interview with the Group Chief Executive, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Social changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 32.
These group Responsibility Report, the Directors Information, the Corporate financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Directors policies set out therein.
Remuneration Report, the Shareholder Information and the Oil & Gas Reserves unaudited.
We consider the implications for our We have reported separately on the parent company financial Report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or statements of Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has been Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and information and explanations which we considered necessary in the group financial statements in accordance with applicable order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Jersey law and International Financial Reporting Standards are set assurance that the group financial statements are free from material out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or are also responsible for the preparation of the Corporate error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare.
of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial profit for the year then ended: and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Companies Jersey Law 1991. accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Ernst & Young LLP all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
London 6 March 2009 The Company has also instructed us to review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code which, for a listed UK-incorporated company, are specified for review by the companys auditor by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
