Financial statements 119 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Petrofac Limited We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Petrofac Limited the Company for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 2008 which comprise the income statement, the balance sheet, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices cash flow statement, the statement of changes in equity and the Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence related notes 1 to 18.
These parent company financial statements relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
financial statements and the section of the Directors Remuneration We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited.
It also includes an Report that is described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial We have reported separately on the group financial statements of statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Petrofac Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008. to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has information and explanations which we considered necessary in been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable members those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance that the parent company financial statements and the auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent section of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to described as audited are free from material misstatement, whether anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of have formed.
information in the parent company financial statements and the section of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors described as audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance Opinion with applicable Jersey law and International Financial In our opinion: Reporting Standards are set out in the Statement of Directors the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report which they the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of have chosen to prepare.
its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements have been properly Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991: statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory and requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and the section of the Directors Remuneration Report that has Ireland.
The Company has also instructed us to audit the section been described as audited has been properly prepared in all of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described material respects in accordance with the basis of preparation as audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Ernst & Young LLP financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly London prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
6 March 2009 We also report to you our opinion as to whether the section of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Company that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Directors Information, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited section of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Shareholder Information and the Oil & Gas Reserves unaudited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
