Corporate responsibility ARMs corporate responsibility programme encompasses accountability to shareholders, commitment to employees and their families, service to our Partners, fostering good relationships with suppliers, involvement in the betterment of local communities and minimising impact on the environment.
Within each of these pillars, we focus on continuous improvement measured by internal objectives, external audits and benchmarking.
Employees ARM endeavours to attract and retain the best people available by being a good and ethical employer.
In the UK, ARM participated in the Sunday Times Best Company to Work For survey in 2008 and in January 2009, was presented with a 1 star award which means it is a first class employer.
In 2008 ARM was judged by the UKs Guardian newspaper as a Top Employer.
Benefits Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan, sabbaticals and flexible working.
ARM aligns the interests of employees and shareholders by providing equity participation through restricted shares under the Employee Equity Plan and the opportunity to buy shares through savings plans.
ARM supports family-friendly initiatives such as a child care voucher scheme in the UK and a flexible spending account in the US.
Feedback, development and training ARM recognises the importance of enabling employees to learn and develop, encouraging each individual to embark on a path of self-betterment using a blend of reflection and feedback, coaching, mentoring, training and education.
At least once a year, employees and managers have a formal discussion on performance and development through the ARM Feedback and Development System.
Training needs are tracked, delivered and progress is monitored through our Learning and Development team, ensuring that the Groups skills base is increased in line with business needs and personal aspirations.
Health and safety The safety and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority.
ARM has adopted UK health and safety legislation as the global corporate standard due to its depth and breadth and maintains membership of the British Safety Council to reflect this standard.
ARMs global internal audit programme, the Facilities Management Review, evaluates health and safety performance across all sites with a goal of consistency of health and safety provision world-wide.
We have seen increased awareness from design centre managers of health, safety and welfare issues and their mitigation in 2008, in the results of audits conducted by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA.
To date ARM has had no serious issues and retains a very low accident rate less than two recorded accidents per one hundred employees annually.
Health and safety issues are communicated to employees through various media including the intranet, email and workshops.
As part of ARMs induction process, an extensive workshop introduces new employees to health and safety issues in their office.
Suppliers ARM has relatively few suppliers, but the Company engages in dialogue with larger vendors to assess their CR credentials.
ARM evaluates suppliers on several factors including vendor policies where applicable and the reputation of the supplier or contractor.
ARM encourages suppliers and contractors to abide by its Human Rights and Ethical Trading Policy.
ARM continues to work with suppliers and service providers to minimise environmental impact, wherever practicable.
Local communities ARM believes a good corporate citizen invests in and engages with local communities.
Business community ARM is a founding member of both The Learning Collaboration TLC and the Cambridge Network as well as a founding sponsor of the Electronics Knowledge Transfer Network.
In 2008, ARM co-founded the Cambridge Business Lectures.
Four lectures were held in 2008 with combined attendance of more than 1,000.
The lectures are free to participants through corporate sponsorship.
Youth and education ARM supports educational endeavours through sponsorship of science IT-related education initiatives and donations of supplies such as redundant computer equipment to schools.
We support the Engineering Education Scheme, Young Engineers and Young Enterprise as well as the Cambridge University Entrepreneurs, University of Texas College of Communication, Cambridge University Engineering Society and primary educational establishments.
ARMs University Programme engages with universities in nearly every region of the world, including the EU, North and South America, Australia, India, China and Japan designing course material, providing technical seminars, donating equipment and software and offering assistance to students.
This reflects ARMs commitment to help universities produce graduates with the necessary skills that its Partners need.
