108 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Premier Farnell plc We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Premier We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Farnell plc for the period ended 3 February 2008 which comprise Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the audited the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Consolidated Financial Statements.
The other information Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Accounting the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Policies and the related notes.
These Consolidated Financial unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, and the items listed Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies in the contents section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Statements of Premier Farnell plc for the period ended 3 February not extend to any other information.
2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are free from in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by adequacy of the presentation of information in the Consolidated our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared In our opinion: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 February 2008 and of its Consolidated Financial Statements.
The information given in the profit and cash flows for the period then ended: Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly section of the Directors Report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and the Consolidated Financial Statements.
other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the London Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules 22 April 2008 of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
