K. Internal control Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation structure The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise, as far as possible, the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the group and stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises.
Certain of the groups functions including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury and insurance are undertaken centrally.
b Financial reporting The group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against budget, forecast and prior year performance.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole, and are issued in a timely manner to ensure proper consideration can be given to the information.
c Group internal audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the group internal audit department.
Group internal audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the financial and operational systems of control for all parts of the group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group internal audit functions by conducting independent appraisals leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group internal audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases.
The head of group internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Group internal audit is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors.
