FInAnCIALSTATeMenTS    ofQinetiQGroupplc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Group Income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial any other information.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also members those matters we are required to state to them in an includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law assurance that the financial statements and the part of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International n the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been n the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Regulation: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
n the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of information presented in the reports of the Chairman, Chief Executive the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: Officer and the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
n the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if n the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration the financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects CharteredAccountants the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 RegisteredAuditor Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 28 May 2008 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
69  3june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager
