qxd:Layout 1 12 3 09 08:48 Page 48 C C STATUTORY REPORTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  We have audited the Group and parent company financial Basisofauditopinion statements  ofTheRankGroupPlcfor We conducted our audit in accordance with International the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing income statement, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Practicesboard.
, onatestbasis, of , theGroupstatement  of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to financial statements have been prepared under the accounting be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant .
  the directors remuneration report that is described as having of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,   order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with applicable law and International Financial assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union directors remuneration report to be audited are free from are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements irregularityorerror.
 and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report to be audited.
report, includingtheopinion,  the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section Opinion .
Wedo In our opinion: not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of agreed by our prior consent in writing.
its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial  statements, .
Wealsoreporttoyou ended: whether in our opinion the information given in the directors the financial statements and the part of the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
 , inouropinion, theCompany , asregardsthe has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received , :and , or   the financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement  reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chartered accountants and registered auditors theCombinedCode 2006  London , andwereportifitdoes 25 February 2009 not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report which includes the unaudited part of the directors remunerationreport, thebusinessreview,  statement and other information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
