Independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Group financial We review whether the Corporate governance Opinion statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc statement reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: for the year ended 31 December 2008 which with the nine provisions of the Combined Code the Group financial statements give a true comprise the Group income statement, the 2006 specified for our review by the Listing and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as Group statement of recognised income and Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and adopted by the European Union, of the state expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group we report if it does not.
We are not required of the Groups affairs as at 31 December cash flow statement and the related notes.
to consider whether the Boards statements on 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for These Group financial statements have been internal control cover all risks and controls, or the year then ended: prepared under the accounting policies set form an opinion on the effectiveness of the out therein.
Groups corporate governance procedures or the Group financial statements have been its risk and control procedures.
properly prepared in accordance with the We have reported separately on the parent Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the company financial statements of Reckitt We read other information contained in the IAS Regulation: and Benckiser Group plc for the year ended Annual Report and consider whether it is 31 December 2008 and on the information consistent with the audited Group financial the information given in the Report of in the Directors Remuneration Report that statements.
The other information comprises the Directors is consistent with the Group is described as having been audited.
only the Chief Executives Statement, the Board financial statements.
of Directors and Executive Committee, the Respective responsibilities of Directors Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and auditors As explained in note 1 to the Group financial 2008, the Report of the Directors including The directors responsibilities for preparing statements, the Group in addition to complying statements on Corporate governance, the the Annual Report and the Group financial with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration statements in accordance with applicable as adopted by the European Union, has Report and all of the other information listed law and International Financial Reporting also complied with IFRSs as issued by the on the contents page.
We consider the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board.
implications for our report if we become aware European Union are set out in the Directors of any apparent misstatements or material In our opinion the Group financial statements responsibilities section of the Report of inconsistencies with the Group financial give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Directors.
Our responsibilities do not extend IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Our responsibility is to audit the Group to any other information.
31 December 2008 and of its profit and financial statements in accordance with cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis of audit opinion relevant legal and regulatory requirements We conducted our audit in accordance with and International Standards on Auditing International Standards on Auditing UK UK and Ireland.
This report, including the and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices opinion, has been prepared for and only Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test  LLP for the Companys members as a body in basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors accordance with Section 235 of the Companies disclosures in the Group financial statements.
London Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do It also includes an assessment of the significant 10 March 2009 not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume estimates and judgements made by the responsibility for any other purpose or to any Notes: Directors in the preparation of the Group other person to whom this report is shown The maintenance and integrity of the financial statements, and of whether the or into whose hands it may come save where Reckitt Benckiser Group plc website is accounting policies are appropriate to the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the responsibility of the Directors: the Groups circumstances, consistently applied work carried out by the auditors does We report to you our opinion as to whether and adequately disclosed.
not involve consideration of these matters the Group financial statements give a true We planned and performed our audit so and, accordingly, the auditors accept no and fair view and whether the Group financial as to obtain all the information and responsibility for any changes that may have statements have been properly prepared in explanations which we considered necessary occurred to the financial statements since accordance with the Companies Act 1985 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence they were initially presented on the website.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also to give reasonable assurance that the Group report to you whether in our opinion the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing financial statements are free from material information given in the Report of the Directors the preparation and dissemination of misstatement, whether caused by fraud is consistent with the Group financial statements.
financial statements may differ from or other irregularity or error.
In forming our The information given in the Report of the legislation in other jurisdictions.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Directors includes that specific information of the presentation of information in the Group presented in the Business Review 2008 that is financial statements.
cross referred from the review of the activities and development of the Groups business section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
