178 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Report on the consolidated financial statements Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements 2008 which are part of the financial statements and fair view of the financial position of Reed Elsevier NV as at 31 December 2008, and of its result and its cash flows for the of Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2008, the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
and expense and the consolidated reconciliation of shareholders equity for the year then ended and a summary of significant Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out in pages 166 to 177. of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, that the report of the Supervisory Board and the Managements responsibility Executive Board are consistent with the consolidated financial statements as required by 2:391 sub 4 of the Netherlands Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in Civil Code.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 Deloitte Accountants B. V. J P M Hopmans of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board in Amsterdam The Netherlands accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and 18 February 2009 maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
