126 Combined financial statements Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Report on the combined financial statements We also read other information contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008, as described We have audited the combined financial statements 2008 of Reed Elsevier PLC registered in England and Wales, Reed in the contents section, including the summary of the combined financial statements presented in euros, and consider the Elsevier NV registered in Amsterdam, Reed Elsevier Group plc registered in England and Wales, Elsevier Reed Finance BV implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the combined registered in Amsterdam and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures together the combined financial statements.
businesses, for the year ended 31 December 2008 the combined financial statements, which comprise the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the combined combined income statement, the combined cash flow statement, the combined balance sheet, the combined statement of financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material recognised income and expense, the combined reconciliation of shareholders equity, the accounting policies and the related misstatement of the combined financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, we notes 1 to 37. consider internal control relevant to the combined businesses preparation and fair presentation of the combined financial We have also audited the information in the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report presented in the Reed Elsevier statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of Annual Reports and Financial Statements the Remuneration Report that are described as having been audited.
The separate expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the combined businesses internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating audit reports on the consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV which have been the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, audited under locally adopted standards appear on pages 157 and 178. as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the combined financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV those matters we are required to state to them in and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Opinion In our opinion, the combined financial statements give a true and to anyone other than Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, and the members of Reed Elsevier PLC as a body and the fair view of the financial position of the combined businesses as at 31 December 2008, and of their profits and cash flows for shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Directors responsibility The parts of the Remuneration Report described as having The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the combined financial statements in accordance been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for the preparation of the Remuneration Report.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and Deloitte LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. fair presentation of the combined financial statements that are Chartered Accountants J P M Hopmans free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: and Registered Auditors Amsterdam selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and London The Netherlands making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the given United Kingdom 18 February 2009 circumstances.
18 February 2009 Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the combined financial statements, and the parts of the Remuneration Report that are described as being audited, based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board, International Standards on Auditing as applied in the Netherlands and Dutch Law.
This requires that we comply with our respective professions ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the combined financial statements are free from material misstatement.
