Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 157 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the consolidated financial statements, which comprise the the boards statement on internal control covers all risks consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated control procedures.
reconciliation of shareholders equity, the group accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 21.
These consolidated We read the other information contained in the Reed Elsevier financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008, as described policies set out therein.
in the contents section, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider We have reported separately on the individual parent company the implications for our report if we become aware of any financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 31 December 2008 and on the information in the parts consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not of the Directors Remuneration Report presented in the extend to any further information outside the Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008. the Remuneration Report that are described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the companys members those matters we are required to state financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, responsibility to anyone other than the company and the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the companys circumstances, consistently applied and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report information and explanations which we considered necessary and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statement of directors responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial consolidated financial statements.
statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Opinion Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the view in accordance with IFRS, as adopted for use in the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements have been properly the consolidated financial statements.
The information given prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and in the directors report includes the Business Review that Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and is cross referred from pages 12 to 46 and 50 to 53 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Deloitte LLP our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions with the company and other London members of the group is not disclosed.
United Kingdom 18 February 2009 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the
