Directors Report Corporate Governance Independent Auditors report to the shareholders Report of the Rviseurs dEntreprises on the consolidated Opinion financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements set out on pages 41 to 80 give a true and fair view of the consolidated We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Regus financial position of Regus plc S. A. as of 31 December plc S. A. which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as 2008, and of its consolidated financial performance and its at 31 December 2008 and the consolidated income statement, consolidated cash ows for the year then ended in accordance consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted cash ow statement for the year then ended, and a summary by the European Union.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes as set out on pages 41 to 80.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The consolidated Directors report, which is the responsibility Board of directors responsibility for the consolidated of the Board of directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements financial statements.
The Board of directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Luxembourg, 20 March 2009 as adopted by the European Union.
This responsibility includes: KPMG Audit S. r. l. designing, implementing and maintaining internal control 9 alle Scheffer, L-2520 Luxembourg relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated Rviseurs dEntreprises financial statements that are free from material misstatement, Thierry Ravasio whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Responsibility of the Rviseur dEntreprises Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted by the Institut des Rviseurs dEntreprises.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Rviseur dEntreprises, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Rviseur dEntreprises considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
