report oF the independent Auditors to the MeMBers oF renishAW plc PAGE 44 45 We have audited the group and parent company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual report statements the financial statements of Renishaw plc for the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial year ended 30th June 2008 which comprise the Consolidated statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we income statement, the Consolidated and parent company balance become aware of any apparent misstatements or material sheets, the Consolidated statement of cash flow, the Consolidated inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities statement of recognised income and expense and the related do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the basis oF auDiT opinion information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Companys members those matters we are required to state to made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in respeCTive responsibiLiTies oF DireCTors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable anD auDiTors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material the group financial statements in accordance with applicable misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial presentation of information in the financial statements and the part statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of opinion directors responsibilities on page 44.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Groups affairs as at 30th June 2008 and of its profit for the year Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the group financial statements have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have IAS Regulation: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30th the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the June 2008: financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the The information given in the Directors' report includes that specific Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly information presented in the Chairman's statement and the Financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and review that is cross-referred from the Principal activities and review of the business section of the Directors' report.
the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Marlborough House Chartered Accountants Fitzalan Court We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects Registered Auditor Cardiff the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 23rd July 2008 CF24 0TE Combined Code specified for our review by the listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
