Financial statements 47 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc For the year ended 31 December Financial statements We read other information contained in the annual We have audited the group financial statements of 47 Independent auditors report and consider whether it is consistent with Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended 31 December 2008, report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc the audited group financial statements.
The other which comprise the consolidated income statement, 48 Consolidated income information comprises only the statement by the the consolidated statement of recognised income and statement chairman and chief executive, the business overview, expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 49 Consolidated corporate responsibility, directors and secretary, senior cash flow statement, accounting policies and the related statement of management, the directors report, corporate notes.
These group financial statements have been recognised income and expense governance, the statement of directors responsibilities, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
the unaudited section of the directors remuneration 50 Consolidated We have reported separately on the parent company balance sheet report, principal operating subsidiary and associated financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for the year 51 Consolidated cash undertakings, the five-year summary and the ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in flow statement shareholder information.
We consider the implications the directors remuneration report that is described 52 Accounting policies for our report if we become aware of any apparent as having been audited.
61 Notes to the accounts misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 97 Principal operating group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors subsidiary and not extend to any other information.
associated undertakings The directors responsibilities for preparing the Basis of audit opinion Annual Report and the group financial statements 98 Five-year summary in accordance with applicable law and International 99 Parent company We conducted our audit in accordance with balance sheet Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland 100 N otes to the parent by the European Union are set out in the statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit company accounts of directors responsibilities.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 106 Independent auditors Our responsibility is to audit the group financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc statements in accordance with relevant legal and financial statements.
It also includes an assessment regulatory requirements and International Standards of the significant estimates and judgements made by on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the directors in the preparation of the group financial the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the statements, and of whether the accounting policies are companys members as a body in accordance with appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no applied and adequately disclosed.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to the information and explanations which we considered any other person to whom this report is shown or into necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed to give reasonable assurance that the group financial by our prior consent in writing.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall financial statements give a true and fair view and whether adequacy of the presentation of information in the the group financial statements have been properly group financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to Opinion you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the group financial In our opinion: statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the the group financial statements give a true and fair business review that is cross referred from the business view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the review section of the directors report.
European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we for the year then ended: have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the group financial statements have been properly by law regarding directors remuneration and other prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 transactions is not disclosed.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and We review whether the corporate governance statement the information given in the directors report is reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions consistent with the group financial statements.
of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control  LLP cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors effectiveness of the groups corporate governance London procedures or its risk and control procedures.
