106 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc Independent auditors report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc remuneration report, principal operating subsidiary We have audited the parent company financial statements and associated undertakings, the five-year summary of Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended 31 December and the shareholder information.
We consider the 2008 which comprise the balance sheet and the related implications for our report if we become aware of any notes.
These parent company financial statements have apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies been prepared under the accounting policies set out with the parent company financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on Basis of audit opinion the group financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc We conducted our audit in accordance with for the year ended 31 December 2008. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Report, the directors remuneration report and the company financial statements and the part of the parent company financial statements in accordance directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting includes an assessment of the significant estimates Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted and judgements made by the directors in the Accounting Practice are set out in the statement preparation of the parent company financial of directors responsibilities.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies Our responsibility is to audit the parent company are appropriate to the companys circumstances, financial statements and the part of the directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
all the information and explanations which we This report, including the opinion, has been prepared considered necessary in order to provide us with for and only for the companys members as a body in sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 the parent company financial statements and the part and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this of the directors remuneration report to be audited are opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other free from material misstatement, whether caused by purpose or to any other person to whom this report is fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our shown or into whose hands it may come save where opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent remuneration report to be audited.
company financial statements give a true and fair view Opinion and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to In our opinion: be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the parent company financial statements give a true with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom whether in our opinion the information given in the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: directors report includes that specific information the parent company financial statements and the presented in the business review that is cross-referenced part of the directors remuneration report to be from the business review section of the directors report.
audited have been properly prepared in accordance In addition, we report to you if in our opinion the with the Companies Act 1985: and company has not kept proper accounting records, if we the information given in the directors report is have not received all the information and explanations consistent with the parent company financial we require for our audit, or if information specified by statements.
law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
 LLP The other information comprises only the statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by the chairman and chief executive, the business London overview, corporate responsibility, directors and 20 March 2009 secretary, senior management, the directors report, corporate governance, the statement of directors responsibilities, the unaudited section of the directors
