auditors' report The Independent auditors report to the members Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion of Rightmove plc the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We have audited the Group and parent Company financial with the financial statements.
The information given in the statements the financial statements of Rightmove plc for Directors Report includes that speci c information that is the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the cross referred from the Principal activities section of the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Directors Report.
Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Statements of Cash Flow, the Consolidated and Company Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity, and the have not received all the information and explanations we related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also regarding directors remuneration and other transactions audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report is not disclosed.
that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the Companys members, re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions as a body, in accordance with s235 of the Companies Act of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we might state to the Companys members those matters we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and than the Company and the Companys members as a control procedures.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We read the other information contained in the Annual we have formed.
Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Basis of audit opinion adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Responsibilities on page 32.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Report to be audited have been properly prepared in appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 42 rightmove plc annual report 2008 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its pro t for the year then ended: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Milton Keynes 27 February 2009 43 rightmove plc annual report 2008
