Report of the Independent Auditors specified by law regarding directors statements, and of whether the accounting To the shareholders of RPS remuneration and other transactions is policies are appropriate to the groups and Group Plc not disclosed.
companys circumstances, consistently We have audited the group and parent applied and adequately disclosed.
company financial statements the financial We review whether the corporate statements of RPS Group Plc for the year governance statement reflects the We planned and performed our audit ended 31 December 2008 which comprise companys compliance with the nine so as to obtain all the information and the consolidated income statement, the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code explanations which we considered consolidated and parent company balance specified for our review by the Listing Rules necessary in order to provide us with sheets, the consolidated cash flow of the Financial Services Authority, and we sufficient evidence to give reasonable statement, the consolidated statement of report if it does not.
We are not required assurance that the financial statements and recognised income and expense and the to consider whether the boards statements the part of the directors remuneration related notes.
These financial statements report to be audited are free from material on internal control cover all risks and 63 have been prepared under the accounting misstatement, whether caused by fraud or controls, or form an opinion on the policies set out therein.
In forming our effectiveness of the groups corporate opinion we also evaluated the overall governance procedures or its risk and We have also audited the information in adequacy of the presentation of information control procedures.
the directors remuneration report that is in the financial statements and the part described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in of the directors remuneration report to the annual report and consider whether be audited.
Respective responsibilities of it is consistent with the audited financial directors and auditors statements.
This other information Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing comprises only the Report of the In our opinion: the annual report and group financial Directors, the Five Year Summary and the statements in accordance with applicable n the group financial statements give a Business Review and Management and law and International Financial Reporting true and fair view, in accordance with Governance sections, excluding that part Standards IFRSs as adopted by the IFRSs as adopted by the European of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
European Union, and for preparing the Union, of the state of the groups affairs We consider the implications for our parent company financial statements and as at 31 December 2008 and of its report if we become aware of any directors remuneration report in profit for the year then ended: apparent misstatements or material accordance with applicable law and United inconsistencies with the financial statements.
n the group financial statements have Kingdom Accounting Standards United Our responsibilities do not extend to any been properly prepared in accordance Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting other information.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Practice are set out in the statement of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Our report has been prepared pursuant to directors responsibilities.
the requirements of the Companies Act n the parent company financial statements Our responsibility is to audit the financial 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person give a true and fair view, in accordance statements and the part of the directors is entitled to rely on this report unless such with United Kingdom Generally remuneration report to be audited in a person is a person entitled to rely upon Accepted Accounting Practice, of the accordance with relevant legal and this report by virtue of and for the purpose state of the parent companys affairs as regulatory requirements and International of the Companies Act 1985 or has been at 31 December 2008: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
expressly authorised to do so by our prior n the parent company financial written consent.
Save as above, we do not We report to you our opinion as to statements and the part of the accept responsibility for this report to any whether the financial statements give a true directors remuneration report to be other person or for any other purpose and and fair view and whether the financial audited have been properly prepared in we hereby expressly disclaim any and all statements and the part of the directors accordance with the Companies Act such liability.
remuneration report to be audited have 1985: and been properly prepared in accordance with Basis of audit opinion n the information given in the directors the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in report is consistent with the financial addition, the group financial statements have We conducted our audit in accordance with statements.
been properly prepared in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices report to you whether, in our opinion, the Board.
An audit includes examination, on a BDO Stoy Hayward LLP information given in the directors report is test basis, of evidence relevant to the Chartered Accountants and Registered consistent with the financial statements.
In amounts and disclosures in the financial Auditors addition we report to you if, in our opinion, statements and the part of the directors 55 Baker Street the company has not kept proper remuneration report to be audited.
It also London accounting records, if we have not received includes an assessment of the significant W1U 7EU all the information and explanations we estimates and judgments made by the require for our audit, or if information directors in the preparation of the financial 4 March 2009 rpsgroup.
