Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the group financial statements of SABMiller We read other information contained in the Annual Report, as plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the described in the contents, and consider whether it is consistent consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent of total recognised income and expense and the related notes.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial These group financial statements have been prepared under the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, assurance that the group financial statements are free from including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for financial statements.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Opinion agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information the group financial statements have been properly prepared given in the Directors Report is consistent with the group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of financial statements.
The information given in the Directors the IAS Regulation: and Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review and the Ordinary Shareholding the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Analyses that is cross referred from the principal activities and with the group financial statements.
business review and the substantial shareholdings sections of the Directors Report.
 LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors received all the information and explanations we require for London our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors 2 June 2008 remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Independent auditors report 61 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
