106 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Sage Group plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to statement and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the of The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 and on Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information been audited.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this and cash flows for the year then ended: report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
IAS Regulation: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial Group financial statements.
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the  LLP Business review that is cross referred from the Business review section Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Directors report.
Newcastle upon Tyne In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 17 December 2008 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans welcome, the Business review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement, the non-audited information in the Remuneration report and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
