qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:29 Page 79 Independent Auditors Report Our responsibility is to audit the Group Independent Auditors Report Financial Statements in accordance with to the members of Serco relevant legal and regulatory requirements Group plc and International Standards on Auditing We have audited the Group Financial UK and Ireland.
Statements of Serco Group plc for the We report to you our opinion as to year ended 31 December 2008 which whether the Group Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income give a true and fair view, whether the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Group Financial Statements have been Recognised Income and Expense, the properly prepared in accordance with the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and IAS Regulation, and whether the part of the related notes 1 to 38.
These Group the Remuneration Report described as Financial Statements have been prepared having been audited has been properly under the accounting policies set out prepared in accordance with the therein.
We have also audited the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to information in the Remuneration Report you whether in our opinion the information that is described as having been audited.
given in the Directors Report is consistent We have reported separately on the with the Group Financial Statements.
The parent Company Financial Statements information given in the Directors Report of Serco Group plc for the year ended includes that specific information 31 December 2008. presented in the Chairmans Statement This report is made solely to the and the Business Review that is cross Companys members, as a body, in referred from the Directors Report.
accordance with section 235 of the In addition we report to you if, in our Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has opinion, we have not received all the been undertaken so that we might state to information and explanations we require for the Companys members those matters our audit, or if information specified by law we are required to state to them in an regarding Directors remuneration and Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
other transactions is not disclosed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We review whether the Corporate do not accept or assume responsibility to Governance Report reflects the anyone other than the Company and the Company's compliance with the nine Companys members as a body, for our provisions of the 2006 Combined Code audit work, for this report, or for the specified for our review by the Listing opinions we have formed.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Respective responsibilities of required to consider whether the Board's Directors and Auditors statements on internal control cover all The Directors responsibilities for preparing risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Annual Review and Accounts, the the effectiveness of the Group's corporate Remuneration Report and the Group governance procedures or its risk and Financial Statements in accordance with control procedures.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors Responsibilities.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:29 Page 80 Independent Auditors Report continued We read the other information contained in Opinion the Annual Review and Accounts as In our opinion: described in the contents section and the Group Financial Statements give a consider whether it is consistent with the true and fair view, in accordance with audited Group Financial Statements.
The IFRSs as adopted by the European other information comprises only the Union, of the state of the Group's affairs Directors Report, the Chairman's as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit Statement, the unaudited part of the for the year then ended: Remuneration Report, the Business the Group Financial Statements have Review and the Corporate Governance been properly prepared in accordance Report.
We consider the implications for with the Companies Act 1985 and our report if we become aware of any Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial the part of the Remuneration Report Statements.
Our responsibilities do not described as having been audited has extend to any further information outside been properly prepared in accordance the Annual Review and Accounts.
with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Basis of audit opinion Report is consistent with the Group We conducted our audit in accordance Financial Statements.
with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements and the Deloitte LLP part of the Remuneration Report to be Chartered Accountants and Registered audited.
It also includes an assessment of Auditors the significant estimates and judgements London, United Kingdom made by the Directors in the preparation of 26 February 2009 the Group Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
