independent auditors report to the members of Shanks Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Shanks Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Group and Parent Company Income Statements, the Consolidated Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Business Overview, Operating Review, Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Financial Highlights, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, the Business Overview, Operating Review, Financial Review, Corporate Responsibility, Corporate Governance Statement, Consolidated Five Year Summary and all other information as referenced by the contents page of the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
annual report 2008 41 independent auditors report to the members of Shanks Group plc continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of the groups and parent companys profits and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 29 May 2008 42 shanks.
