7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 67 67 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders equity, comprehensive income loss, cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 and the related Notes 1 to 37 together, the Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Financial Statements are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information that would be specified by United Kingdom law were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code that would be specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority were the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans review, the Chief Executive Officers review, the Financial review and the Corporate Governance Statement We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Shire plc and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom February 27, 2009
