Business review Our business in action Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of Associated British Foods plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 13 September 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of and expense, the parent company reconciliation of movements in equity the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment shareholders funds, and the related notes.
These financial statements have of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting audited the information in the Remuneration report that is described as policies are appropriate to the groups and Companys circumstances, having been audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part for the opinions we have formed.
of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the group In our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups preparing the parent company financial statements and the directors affairs as at 13 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 34. in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 13 September 2008: UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to financial statements.
you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report KPMG Audit Plc is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information that is cross referred Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor from the Business review section of the Directors report.
8 Salisbury Square In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept London proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and EC4Y 8BB explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
4 November 2008 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35
