58 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc We have audited the group financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash-flow statement, the Accounting policies and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Smiths Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Group directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Group directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Summary performance, Group at a glance, Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business review, Board of directors, the Group directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Statement of directors responsibilities, the Group financial record and the Financial calendar.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Group directors' report is consistent with the group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 23 September 2008 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
