Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SOCO International plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and statements the financial statements of SOCO International controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Group Income Statement, the Group and parent Company procedures.
Balance Sheets, the Group and parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and parent Company Statements of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Recognised Income and Expense and the related Notes 1 to as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 33.
These financial statements have been prepared under the consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the implications for our report if we become aware of any information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of Audit Opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with International state to the Companys members those matters we are Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors information and explanations which we considered necessary Responsibilities in the Directors Report.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Opinion to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, you whether in our opinion the information given in the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
and of its profit for the year then ended: The information given in the Directors Report includes that the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair specific information presented in the Chairmans and Chief view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Executives Statement, the Review of Operations and the Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Principal Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys Activity and Enhanced Business Review section of the affairs as at 31 December 2008: Directors Report.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if IAS Regulation: and information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Deloitte LLP reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the London, United Kingdom Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report 9 March 2009 if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the 52 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
