Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Spectris plc We have audited the group and parent company financial form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate statements the financial statements of Spectris plc for governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the year ended 31 December 2008, which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent We read other information contained in the Annual Report and company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we and the related notes.
These financial statements have been become aware of any apparent misstatements or material prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration do not extend to any other information.
Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, companys members those matters we are required to state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the responsibility to anyone other than the company and the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in IFRS as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35. irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Report to be audited.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with for the year then ended: the Companies Act 1985, and as regards the group financial the group financial statements have been properly prepared statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of you whether in our opinion the information given in the the IAS Regulation: Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair The information given in the Directors Report includes that view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting specific information presented in the Annual Report that is Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at cross-referred from the Business Review section of the 31 December 2008: Directors Report.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 1985: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information specified by law regarding directors remuneration with the financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement KPMG Audit Plc reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chartered Accountants the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Registered Auditor Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if 8 Salisbury Square it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards London EC4Y 8BB statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 24 February 2009 44 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
