 13 6 08 10:33 Page 59 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee comprised Peter Atkinson, Ishbel Macpherson and David Galloway and Frank Dee until his retirement, all of whom are independent.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, and Finance Director were in attendance, as were the external and internal auditors.
During the year the Committee met three times.
In addition, the external auditors met privately with the independent Directors.
David Galloway is Chairman and is a Chartered Accountant and is Chairman of one other plc audit committee.
David Galloway The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Non-Executive Director Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
Monitor the effectiveness of the external process including the appointment, cost and independence of the auditors.
Review the effectiveness of internal controls and the internal audit function.
Approve the appointment of the Head of Internal audit.
Review the Board process for reviewing and managing significant risk in the business.
The full terms of reference, which are in compliance with Paragraph C3 of the Combined Code, are reviewed annually and were most recently amended on 22 May 2008.
During the year the Committee reviewed: The Groups interim and final accounts together with the external auditors detailed reports.
The Boards process for identifying and managing risk.
The appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies.
The policy for tendering of non-audit advice.
The external audit plans and associated cost.
The independence of the external auditors.
Post-project reports on the integration of acquisitions.
Internal audit plans, reports and resourcing levels.
A report from the Companys external provider of security advice and fraud prevention services.
Trading statements and press releases on acquisitions were also reviewed by the Board.
Michael Averill has joined the Committee with effect from 1 May 2008.
David Galloway Chairman of the Audit Committee Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
