Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent Communications plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements information comprises only the Chairmans statement, of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended the Business review, the Board of directors, the Report of 31 December 2008 which comprise the Company balance the directors, the Statement of directors responsibilities, sheet and the related notes 1 to 21 and the list of the Directors statement on corporate governance, the Principal divisions and subsidiaries.
These parent unaudited part of the Report on directors remuneration, Company financial statements have been prepared under Financial history and Shareholder information.
We the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also consider the implications for our report if we become audited the information in the Report on directors aware of any apparent misstatements or material remuneration that is described as having been audited.
inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any We have reported separately on the Group financial other information.
statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and might state to the Companys members those matters we disclosures in the parent Company financial statements are required to state to them in an auditors report and for and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other significant estimates and judgements made by the than the Company and the Companys members as a directors in the preparation of the parent Company body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions financial statements, and of whether the accounting we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Report, the Report on directors remuneration and the the information and explanations which we considered parent Company financial statements in accordance with necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice financial statements and the part of the Report on are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
directors remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements and the part of the Report on directors evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant information in the parent Company financial statements legal and regulatory requirements and International and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Opinion Company financial statements give a true and fair view In our opinion: and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be the parent Company financial statements give a true audited have been properly prepared in accordance with and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of our opinion the information given in the Report of the the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: directors is consistent with the financial statements.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company have been properly prepared in accordance with the has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Companies Act 1985: and received all the information and explanations we require the information given in the Report of the directors for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding is consistent with the parent Company directors remuneration and other transactions is financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report Registered auditor and consider whether it is consistent with the audited London parent Company financial statements.
The other 24 February 2009 Spirent Communications plc 92 Annual Report 2008
