Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent Communications plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Communications plc for the year ended 31 December control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash procedures or its risk and control procedures.
flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the related notes 1 to 35 and the We read other information contained in the Annual Report list of Principal divisions and subsidiaries.
These Group and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements have been prepared under the Group financial statements.
The other information accounting policies set out therein.
comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Board of directors, the Report of the directors, We have reported separately on the parent Company the Statement of directors responsibilities, the Directors financial statements of Spirent Communications plc for statement on corporate governance, the Report on the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information directors remuneration, Financial history and Shareholder in the Report on directors remuneration that is described information.
We consider the implications for our report if as having been audited.
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we Basis of audit opinion are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We conducted our audit in accordance with International no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, than the Company and the Companys members as a on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions disclosures in the Group financial statements.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the Group financial statements, and of whether The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual the accounting policies are appropriate to the Report and the Group financial statements in accordance Groups circumstances, consistently applied and with applicable United Kingdom law and International adequately disclosed.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all directors responsibilities.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and statements are free from material misstatement, whether regulatory requirements and International Standards on caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Auditing UK and Ireland.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and In our opinion: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether in our opinion the information given in the Report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European of the directors is consistent with the financial statements.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the Group financial statements have been properly received all the information and explanations we require for prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 our audit, or if information specified by law regarding and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and directors remuneration and other transactions is the information given in the Report of the directors is not disclosed.
consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the Directors statement on corporate Ernst & Young LLP governance reflects the Companys compliance with the Registered auditor nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for London our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 24 February 2009 Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Spirent Communications plc 42 Annual Report 2008
