spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 89 RepoRT oF THe iNDepeNDeNT AuDiToR To THe MeMBeRs oF spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent company financial statements of Sports We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Direct International plc for the 52 week period to 27 April 2008 which Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An comprise the balance sheet and notes 1 to 9. audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements These parent company financial statements have been prepared and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies financial statements of Sports Direct International plc for the period are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied ended 27 April 2008. and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit information and explanations which we considered necessary in order work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance members those matters we are required to state to them in an that the parent company financial statements and the part of the auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial opinion statements in accordance with United Kingdom law and Accounting In our opinion: Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in 27 April 2008: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Act 1985: and company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared the information given in the Directors Report is consistent in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you with the financial statements.
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial GRANT THORNTON UK LLP Review that is cross referred from the Business Review and Future REGISTERED AUDITOR Developments section of the Directors Report.
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not LONDON kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 10 July 2008 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
