spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 49 RepoRT oF THe iNDepeNDeNT AuDiToR To THe MeMBeRs oF spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Sports We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Direct International plc for the 52 week period to 27 April 2008 which Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An comprise, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
It balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement and notes 1 to 44. also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the the accounting policies set out therein.
consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently We have reported separately on the parent company financial applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 52 week to 27 April 2008 and the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the that is described as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the members those matters we are required to state to them in an overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent consolidated financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for opinion our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom state of the Groups affairs as at 27 April 2008 and of its profit for law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the 52 week period then ended: adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in 4 of the IAS Regulation: and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the GRANT THORNTON UK LLP Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The REGISTERED AUDITOR information given in the Directors Report includes that specific CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS information presented in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial Review that is cross referred from the LONDON Business Review and Future Developments section of the Directors 10 July 2008 Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report and Business Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
