Basis of audit opinion Independent auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit report to the members includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors of SSL International plc remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are the financial statements of SSL International plc for the year ended appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently 31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the applied and adequately disclosed.
Consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity having been audited.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has Directors remuneration report to be audited.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Opinion matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no In our opinion: other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at have formed.
31 March 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 46. remuneration report to be audited, have been properly prepared in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give KPMG Audit Plc a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Chartered Accountants Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in Registered Auditor accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial 8 Salisbury Square statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in London EC4Y 8BB our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with 19 May 2008 the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that information presented in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and performance review that is cross referenced from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
