62880 StCchV13 p40to112:62880 StCchV13 p40to112 1 7 08 17:55 Page 40 Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for Committee report and the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee the year ended 30 April 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on We have reported separately on page 101 on the parent company financial Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2008 and on includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 23. other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We Opinion do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other In our opinion: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups writing.
affairs as at 30 April 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements ended: give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes financial statements.
that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors report.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the Companys accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2008 compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended.
for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider  LLP whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Glasgow report, the Chief Executives review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance report, the Audit Committee report, the Nomination 25 June 2008 page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc
