FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of Thomas Cook Group plc for the eleven We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on months ended 30 September 2008, which comprise the Group income Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statement, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Company cash flow statements, the Group and Company statements of and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These financial report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are report that is described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free Directors responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for, and Opinion only for, the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section In our opinion: 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
eleven months then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group companys affairs as at 30 September 2008 and cash flows for the eleven financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to months then ended: you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors report comprises the information supplied in the Directors Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the report Business review and Directors report Corporate governance.
IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report Business review and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept Directors Report Corporate governance is consistent with the proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial  LLP Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all London risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 19 December 2008 corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report Business review and the Directors report Corporate governance including the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67
