INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation: We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company We have completed integrated audits of Thomson Reuters Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards Corporations 2008, 2007 and 2006 consolidated financial require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable statements and of its internal control over financial reporting assurance about whether effective internal control over financial as at December 31, 2008.
Our opinions, based on our audits, reporting was maintained in all material respects.
An audit of are presented below.
internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, Consolidated Financial Statements assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal Thomson Reuters Corporation the Company as at December 31, control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other 2008 and December 31, 2007, and the related consolidated procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.
We statements of earnings, cash ows and changes in shareholders believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
equity for each of the years in the three year period ended A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process December 31, 2008.
These financial statements are the designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements is to express an opinion on these financial statements based for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted on our audits.
A companys internal control over financial We conducted our audits of the Companys consolidated financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to statements in accordance with Canadian generally accepted the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions require that we plan and perform an audit to obtain reasonable are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial assurance about whether the financial statements are free of statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting material misstatement.
An audit of financial statements includes principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and disclosures in the financial statements.
A financial statement and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our have a material effect on the financial statements.
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods of the Company as at December 31, 2008 and December 31, are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 2007 and the results of its operations and its cash ows for each of because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2008 in compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles.
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material As discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain at December 31, 2008 based on criteria established in Internal income tax positions effective January 1, 2007.
Control Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have also audited the Companys internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by Chartered Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The Companys management is responsible Toronto, Canada for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting March 26, 2009 and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
