Company financial statements 135 Independent auditors report We read the other information contained in the Annual Report To the members of Tomkins plc and consider whether it is consistent with the Companys We have audited the individual financial statements of Tomkins plc financial statements.
We consider the implications for our the Company for the year ended 3 January 2009 the report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Companys financial statements which comprise the material inconsistencies with the Companys financial Companys balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 19.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further financial statements have been prepared under the accounting information outside the Annual Report.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 3 January 2009 and on the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Remuneration Committee report that is described as having Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Companys financial statements.
It also includes an assessment body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Directors in the preparation of the Companys financial state to the Companys members those matters we are statements, and of whether the accounting policies are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do applied and adequately disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Companys financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also the Companys financial statements and the Remuneration evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Committee report in accordance with applicable law and information in the Companys financial statements.
United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP are set Opinion out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 61.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Companys financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee the Companys financial statements give a true and fair view, report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and in accordance with UK GAAP, of the state of the Companys regulatory requirements and International Standards on affairs as at 3 January 2009: Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Companys financial statements have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the Companys prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether they the information given in the Directors report is consistent have been properly prepared in accordance with the with the Companys financial statements.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the Directors report is consistent with the Companys financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Deloitte LLP has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors received all the information and explanations we require for London our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
