62 Independent auditors report We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as To the members of Tomkins plc described in the contents section and consider whether it is We have audited the consolidated financial statements of consistent with the Groups financial statements.
We consider the Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent year ended 3 January 2009 the Groups financial statements misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Groups which comprise the consolidated income statement, the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated balance further information outside the Annual Report.
sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of changes in consolidated Basis of audit opinion shareholders equity and the related notes 1 to 50.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We conducted our audit in accordance with International accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Ireland issued by the information in the Remuneration Committees report that is Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test described as having been audited.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Groups financial statements and the part of the Remuneration We have reported separately on the individual financial Committee report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of statements of Tomkins plc for the year ended 3 January 2009. the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the preparation of the Groups financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest information and explanations which we considered necessary in extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members assurance that the Groups financial statements and the part of as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the Remuneration Committee report to be audited are free from we have formed.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Groups financial statements and the part of the Remuneration the Remuneration Committee report and the Groups financial Committee report to be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the Opinion European Union are set out in the statement of Directors In our opinion: responsibilities on page 61. the Groups financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the Groups financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 January 2009 International Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and and of its loss for the year then ended: Ireland.
the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the Groups financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of statements give a true and fair view, whether the Groups the IAS Regulation: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation the part of the Remuneration Committee report described as and whether the part of the Remuneration Committee report having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance described as having been audited has been properly prepared in with the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you the information given in the Directors report is consistent with whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors the Groups financial statements.
report is consistent with the Groups financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not Separate opinion in relation to IFRS received all the information and explanations we require for our As explained in note 3 to the Groups financial statements, the audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, has We review whether the corporate governance statement within also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting the Directors report reflects the Companys compliance with the Standards Board IASB.
nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our In our opinion the Groups financial statements give a true and review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, of the we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether state of the Groups affairs as at 3 January 2009 and of its loss for the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the year then ended.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 24 February 2009
