Independent Auditors Report to the members of TUI Travel PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate statements the financial statements of TUI Travel PLC for governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the year ended 30 September 2008 and the 14-month period ended 30 September 2008 respectively which comprise We read the other information contained in the Annual the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and might state to the Companys members those matters we are disclosures in the financial statements and the part of required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do includes an assessment of the significant estimates and not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the financial statements and of whether the accounting audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Report and the group financial statements in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary with applicable law and International Financial Reporting in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing reasonable assurance that the financial statements, and the the parent company financial statements and the Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited, Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Practice, are set out in the Statement of Directors we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Responsibilities on page 42. of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 statements, and the part of the Directors Remuneration and of its loss for the year then ended: Report to be audited, have been properly prepared in the Group financial statements have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information the parent company financial statements give a true given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys includes that specific information presented elsewhere in the affairs as at 30 September 2008: Annual Report that is cross referenced from the Business & the parent company financial statements and the part of Financial Review and Financial Risk Management sections of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Directors Report.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company the information given in the Directors Report is consistent has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not with the financial statements.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Registered Auditor of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the 8 Salisbury Square Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if London it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards EC4Y 8BB statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 26 November 2008 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43
