Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Tullow Oil We read the other information contained in the Annual Report plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the as described in the contents section and consider whether it Group income statement, the Group statement of recognised is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash consider the implications for our report if we become aware of flow statement, the accounting policies and the related notes 1 any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with to 33.
These Group financial statements have been prepared the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
audited the information in the Directors remuneration report Basis of audit opinion that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the financial statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, 31 December 2008. on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the state to the Companys members those matters we are Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting required to state to them in an auditors report and for no policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Group report to be audited are free from material misstatement, financial statements in accordance with applicable law whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of the presentation of information in the Group financial of Directors Responsibilities.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in report to be audited.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group the Group financial statements give a true and fair financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Group financial statements have been properly prepared European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors then ended: remuneration report described as having been audited has the Group financial statements have been properly been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: information given in the Directors report is consistent with the part of the Directors remuneration report described the Group financial statements.
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Deloitte LLP Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether London the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks 10 March 2009 and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 81
