Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which as described in the contents section and consider whether comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 13. it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial These Parent Company financial statements have been statements.
We consider the implications for our report prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December information outside the Annual Report.
2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures state to the Companys members those matters we are in the Parent Company financial statements.
It also includes required to state to them in an auditors report and for no an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do made by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting Company and the Companys members as a body, for our policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual the information and explanations which we considered Report and the Parent Company financial statements necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements are free from material misstatement, Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial of the presentation of information in the Parent Company statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory financial statements.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK Opinion and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent the Parent Company financial statements give a true and Company financial statements give a true and fair view and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally whether the Parent Company financial statements have been Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the Parent Company financial statements have been Directors Report is consistent with the Parent Company properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act financial statements.
1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 10 March 2009 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 115
