117 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media Limited We have audited the parent company financial statements of United Business Media Limited the Company for the period ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 15.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the terms of our letter of engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable Jersey law are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities presented in the Report of the Directors.
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report, which they have chosen to prepare.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
The Company has also instructed us to audit the section of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you our opinion as to whether the part of the Directors Remuneration report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the period then ended: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
Ernst & Young LLP London 3 March 2009
