Financial statements Auditors report Netherlands Independent auditors report to the shareholders about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.
of Unilever N. V. The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement Report on the consolidated accounts of the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error.
In We have audited the consolidated accounts which are part of making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal the Annual Report 2008 of the Unilever Group for the year ended control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income of the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash ow that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys expense and a summary of significant accounting policies and internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the other explanatory notes on pages 81 to 136 and 140 to 141. appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, We have reported separately on the company accounts of as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated Unilever N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2008. accounts.
Directors responsibility We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Opinion European Union and as issued by the International Accounting In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands fair view of the financial position of the Unilever Group as at Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors 31 December 2008, and of its result and its cash ows for the in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil year then ended in accordance with International Financial Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and presentation of the consolidated accounts that are free from with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making Report on other legal and regulatory requirements accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part f of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our Auditors responsibility competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated the consolidated accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of the accounts based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in Netherlands Civil Code.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated accounts Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 3 March 2009 are free from material misstatement.
 Accountants N. V. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence DrsRAJ Swaak RA Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 Financial statements Auditors report United Kingdom Independent auditors report to the shareholders of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated Unilever PLC on the consolidated accounts We have audited the consolidated accounts of the Unilever accounts.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors excluding the audited part of the Report of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, Remuneration Committee, the Shareholder information, the Statement of Directors responsibilities and the Financial record.
consolidated cash ow statement, consolidated statement of We consider the implications for our report if we become aware recognised income and expense, the related notes on pages 81 to of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 136, and principal group companies and non-current investments the consolidated accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to on pages 140 and 141.
These consolidated accounts have been any other information.
prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 84 to 88.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Report of the Remuneration Committee that Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the preparation of the consolidated accounts, and of whether the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consolidated accounts in accordance with applicable law and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Accounting Standards Board are set out in the Statement of information and explanations which we considered necessary in Directors Responsibilities on page 78, and on page 152. order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated accounts are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated accounts in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the accounts.
shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Opinion In our opinion: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view, in save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared in accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors excluding the audited part of the Report the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
of the Remuneration Committee is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not As explained in note 1 to the consolidated accounts, the Group in received all the information and explanations we require for addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors as adopted by the European Union has also complied with IFRS as remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion the consolidated accounts give a true and fair reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Accounting Standards Board, of the state of the Groups affairs as Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, and at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash ows for the year we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether then ended.
the Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 3 March 2009 80 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
