indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance Independent audItorS report to the memBerS of vedanta reSourceS plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Vedanta Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which report if it does not.
We are not required to consider comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance whether the Boards statements on internal control cover Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 39.
These Group financial statements have been prepared procedures or its risk and control procedures.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration We read the other information contained in the Annual Report that is described as having been audited.
Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial We have reported separately on the parent company statements.
We consider the implications for our report if financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year we become aware of any apparent misstatements or ended 31 March 2008. material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a further information outside the Annual Report.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we BaSIS of audIt opInIon might state to the Companys members those matters we We conducted our audit in accordance with International are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and than the Company and the Companys members as a body, disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the reSpectIve reSponSIBIlItIeS of dIrectorS and audItorS Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the adopted by the European Union are set out in the information and explanations which we considered Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements in accordance with relevant legal and Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, regulatory requirements and International Standards on whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Auditing UK and Ireland.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of opInIon the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors In our opinion: Remuneration Report described as having been audited the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, has been properly prepared in accordance with the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March opinion the information given in the Directors Report is 2008 and of its profit loss for the year then ended: consistent with the Group financial statements.
The the Group financial statements have been properly information given in the Directors Report includes that prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 specific information presented in the Business Review and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Finance Review that is cross referred from the Business the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and Finance Review section of the Directors Report.
described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not and received all the information and explanations we require the information given in the Directors Report is for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding consistent with the Group financial statements.
directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
deloItte & touche llp chartered accountantS and reGIStered audItorS We review whether the Corporate Governance Report London reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions 14 May 2008 of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 95
