Directors Remuneration Report Part I Unaudited Information This report was prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Throughout the year, the Committee comprised Alan Jones Chairman, John Morgan, Mark Nicholls and Tom Blades.
The Board believes that it is entirely appropriate for John Morgan, the Boards Chairman, to serve on this Committee, so long as he does not chair it.
The Committee met three times during the year for which each member was present and these meetings were supplemented by three minuted conference calls.
Although not a member of the Committee, Mike Wagstaff, the Companys Chief Executive, was invited to attend some of the Committee meetings during the year but he was not involved in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Terms of Reference The terms of reference ensure that the Committee is focused on developing and managing a remuneration policy which will attract and retain high quality Executive Directors and motivate them by aligning their interests with those of the shareholders.
The Committee reviews the level and structure of remuneration provided to the senior management team, as well as the overall remuneration policy for all the employees.
The terms of reference were reviewed and amended during the year, following input from the consulting firm, MM & K Limited MM & K. A copy is available on the Companys website.
Committee Evaluation In February 2009, the Committee carried out an evaluation of its performance during 2008 in accordance with the Combined Code.
The evaluation was carried out by way of a broad ranging discussion to which each Committee member contributed and it was concluded that the Committee was working effectively and no recommendations for improvement were identified.
During the year, the Committee continued to receive information and advice from MM & K. Advice has been received on: remuneration for Executive Directors in broadly similar companies: combining of the Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan with the Employee Annual Bonus Plan with effect from 1 January 2008: drafting of the rules of the new Long Term Share Incentive Plan approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2008: a consistent policy for defining participation in the various share-based plans: interpretation of the rules of the various share schemes in relation to the treatment of leavers: and preparation of this report.
MM & K is not retained to provide advice to any other part of the Company other than in supporting Executive management from time to time in the formulation of recommendations concerning policy interpretation for consideration by the Committee.
A subsidiary of MM & K, Higher Talent Limited, which specialises in the recruitment of HR professionals, received a fee in connection with the Companys search for an additional senior manager.
In January 2008, Global Shares were engaged to take over the administration of the Companys share schemes.
In December 2008, the Employee Benefit Trust changed from Tenon IOM Limited to IFG Trust Jersey Limited and changed its name to Venture Production Employee Benefit Trust.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, Senior Management and All Employees Base Salary The underlying remuneration policy applicable to all employees is to position base salaries at or around the median level for comparable positions in similar companies within the industry.
This policy has been established for a number of years and the Committee continues to believe that this is the correct strategy going forward, but the Committee reviews this strategy regularly to ensure that it remains appropriate, especially in changing market conditions.
Base salary is supplemented by a number of additional mutually consistent non-pensionable incentive plans, which have been designed to reward Executive Directors, senior managers and employees alike for their performance against challenging objectives, both personal and corporate, which support the long term growth of the Company and focus strongly on long term value creation.
Consistent with this policy, Executive Directors total remuneration is weighted heavily towards variable performance-related pay, in particular long term equity incentives are designed to reward the creation of added value.
Annual Bonus The Companys policy is to relate annual bonus awards to both corporate and personal targets, which are transparent and demonstrate a clear linkage between performance and reward.
An essential element of the Companys policy is that, in addition to being an incentive to enhance short term performance, annual bonus plans should operate as an effective recruitment and retention mechanism in a competitive market environment.
Consequently, the Companys annual bonus arrangements have extended throughout the organisation an opportunity to receive bonus awards in shares, receipt of which is deferred for two years.
The Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan ADSBP was introduced for Executive Directors and senior managers in 2005 and the Employee Annual Bonus Plan EABP was introduced for all other employees in 2006.
These plans established a structured framework for determining bonuses which incorporates all the principles referred to above.
48 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance With effect from 1 January 2008, the Committee decided to consolidate the ADSBP and the EABP into one annual bonus plan applicable to all.
This consolidation is designed to simplify the Companys annual bonus arrangements.
Former ADSBP participants will be able to receive as cash an amount equivalent of up to 100% of base annual salary under the ADSBP a participant who elected to receive cash could receive immediately an amount equivalent to not more than one-third of the annual bonus award: any excess being deferred for two years.
Maximum individual bonus awards are not affected by these changes.
Long Term Equity Incentives All UK employees are entitled to participate in a Share Incentive Plan SIP, after an initial six month qualification period.
Additionally, Executive Directors and a number of key senior managers have been invited to participate in the Long Term Share Incentive Plan LTIP 2006 and in its successor, the Long Term Share Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP 2008.
The LTIP 2006 scheme, which replaced the 2003 Long Term Share Incentive Plan, was structured as a typical three-year rolling cycle plan with a new cycle starting each year on 1 January.
Its objectives were: to implement a follow-on long term scheme to ensure that total compensation for Executive Directors and senior managers reflects general industry practice: to define a scheme applicable over the longer term: to incentivise the Executive Directors and senior managers to deliver the medium term growth targets determined in the Companys strategic plan: to create a vehicle to support continuity in the current senior management: and to continue to align the interests of senior managers and the Executive Directors with those of the shareholders.
Share awards were made in respect of the plan cycles starting on 1 January 2006 and 2007.
Maximum annual share award levels as a percentage of base annual salary were: Chief Executive 300% Executive Directors 250% Senior Managers 200% The whole of an award is distributable only if exceptional performance is achieved in respect of all four performance measures.
The distribution and weightings applicable to each of the four performance target measures are as follows: Threshold % Target % Exceptional % Production boepd 12.5 18.75 25.0 Reserves MMboe 12.5 18.75 25.0 Comparative TSR 7.5 11.25 15.0 Ventures Annualised TSR 17.5 26.25 35.0 Distribution of share award 50.0 75.0 100.0 When the LTIP 2006 was implemented, the Committee acknowledged that the comparator group for measurement of Comparative TSR performance was small.
This situation has been kept under review but the Committee has consistently held the view that, for the purposes of measuring Comparative TSR, there is only a small number of companies with similar business models operating in the oil and gas sector in a rapidly evolving market place.
At the time a decision is taken on whether or not performance conditions have been met, the Committee will make clear the logic of the selection of its comparator group.
During the early part of 2008, the Board reviewed the Companys business strategy and adopted plans to create substantial value over the three to four financial years commencing 1 January 2008.
In the light of that review and the plans derived from it, the 2006 LTIP was no longer considered to be the appropriate mechanism to align management incentives with the strategic goals of the business.
Consequently, no allocation was made under the LTIP 2006 in 2008 and the LTIP 2008 was designed to create a powerful equity incentive to coincide directly with the next three to four year phase of the Companys strategic business plan.
The LTIP 2008 was approved at the 2008 AGM and provisional share allocations were made to the Executive Directors and a number of key senior managers in June 2008.
The details are set out on page 52.
Summary of Policy Issues The changes made over the preceding years to the Companys remuneration policies, described above, reflect the Committees desire to take a consistent approach throughout the organisation.
The Committee has determined to adhere to the principles of median base salaries supplemented by focused incentive awards related to annual performance and long term value creation.
The Committee continues to believe that a long term equity incentive, linked to challenging transparent targets designed to reward value creation, is a vital component of Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee also believes that the changes introduced in recent years, including the opportunity for all staff to receive an annual bonus in shares, provide a comprehensive framework for delivery and retention, with excellent alignment between staff and shareholder interests.
The Committee will continue to review all remuneration policies and practices to ensure they remain consistent with good industry practice.
The Committee is cognisant of the turmoil taking place in the world economy and in particular its impact upon equity markets.
It is not currently proposing that any changes be made to the Companys equity incentive plans but will keep them under close review and, if necessary, submit any proposals for changes to shareholders for consideration.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49
