30 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VICTREX PLC estimates and judgments made by the We have audited the Group and Parent Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Directors in the preparation of the financial Company financial statements the financial financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS statements, and of whether the accounting statements of Victrex plc for the year Regulation.
We also report to you whether policies are appropriate to the Groups and ended 30 September 2008 which comprise in our opinion the information given in the Companys circumstances, consistently the Consolidated Income Statement, the Directors Report is consistent with the applied and adequately disclosed.
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, financial statements.
The information given the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow in the Directors Report includes that specific We planned and performed our audit so as Statements, the Group and Parent Company information presented in the Annual to obtain all the information and Statements of Recognised Income and Business Review that is cross referenced explanations which we considered necessary Expense and the related notes.
These from the Annual Business Review section in order to provide us with sufficient financial statements have been prepared of the Directors Report.
evidence to give reasonable assurance that under the accounting policies set out In addition we report to you if, in our the financial statements and the part of the therein.
We have also audited the opinion, the Company has not kept proper Directors Remuneration Report to be information in the Report on Directors accounting records, if we have not received audited are free from material misstatement, Remuneration that is described as having all the information and explanations we whether caused by fraud or other irregularity been audited.
require for our audit, or if information or error.
In forming our opinion we also specified by law regarding Directors evaluated the overall adequacy of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with remuneration and other transactions is presentation of information in the financial section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. not disclosed.
statements and the part of the Directors Our audit work has been undertaken so Remuneration Report to be audited.
We review whether the Corporate that we might state to the Companys Governance Statement reflects the Opinion members those matters we are required to Companys compliance with the nine In our opinion: state to them in an auditors report and for provisions of the 2006 Combined Code The Group financial statements give a no other purpose.
To the fullest extent specified for our review by the Listing Rules true and fair view, in accordance with permitted by law, we do not accept or of the Financial Services Authority, and we IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state assume responsibility to anyone other than report if it does not.
We are not required to of the Groups affairs as at 30 September the Company and the Companys members consider whether the Boards statements on 2008 and of its profit for the year then as a body, for our audit work, for this internal control cover all risks and controls, ended: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness The Parent Company financial statements Respective responsibilities of the Groups corporate governance give a true and fair view, in accordance of Directors and auditors procedures or its risk and control with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions The Directors responsibilities for preparing procedures.
of the Companies Act 1985, of the state the Annual Report, the Directors We read the other information contained in of the Parent Companys affairs as at Remuneration Report and the financial the Annual Report and consider whether it 30 September 2008: statements in accordance with applicable is consistent with the audited financial The financial statements and the part of law and International Financial Reporting statements.
We consider the implications for the Directors Remuneration Report to be Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are our report if we become aware of any audited have been properly prepared in set out in the Statement of Directors apparent misstatements or material accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Responsibilities on page 29. inconsistencies with the financial and, as regards the Group financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not statements, Article 4 of the IAS statements and the part of the Directors extend to any other information.
Regulation and, Remuneration Report to be audited in Basis of audit opinion The information given in the Directors accordance with relevant legal and We conducted our audit in accordance with Report is consistent with the financial regulatory requirements and International International Standards on Auditing UK and statements.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices We report to you our opinion as to whether Board.
An audit includes examination, on a the financial statements give a true and fair test basis, of evidence relevant to the KPMG Audit Plc view and whether the financial statements amounts and disclosures in the financial Chartered Accountants and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements and the part of the Directors Registered Auditor Report to be audited have been properly Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Manchester, M2 6DS prepared in accordance with the Companies includes an assessment of the significant 15 December 2008
