VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65 Independent Auditors Report to the members of VT Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company fi financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements the fi financial statements of VT Group plc for the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited fi financial year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated inconsistencies with the fi financial statements.
Our responsibilities Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related do not extend to any other information.
These fi financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the fi financial statements in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the It also includes an assessment of the signifi cant estimates and Companys members those matters we are required to state to judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the fi financial them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors in order to provide us with suffi cient evidence to give reasonable and auditors assurance that the fi financial statements and the part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material and the Group fi financial statements in accordance with applicable misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company fi financial presentation of information in the fi financial statements and the part statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Opinion Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of In our opinion: Directors Responsibilities on page 64. the Group fi financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the fi financial statements and the part accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profi t for the year with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group fi financial statements have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the fi financial statements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the give a true and fair view and whether the fi financial statements and IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the parent company fi financial statements give a true and fair view, 1985 and, as regards the Group fi financial statements, Article 4 of in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the fi financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the fi financial statements.
information specifi ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement refl ects KPMG Audit Plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Chartered Accountants Combined Code specifi ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are 8 Salisbury Square, London not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 12 May 2008 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
