Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the annual report and of The Weir Group PLC consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only Financial We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir Highlights 2008, 2008 Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2008 which Our Geographic Footprint, Chief Executives Review, Operational comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Reviews, Financial Review, Board of Directors & Group Operations Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Executive, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report, the related notes 1 to 32.
These Group financial statements have unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report and been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the We have reported separately on the Company financial statements implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration Committee financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Company's members those matters we are required to state Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable information and explanations which we considered necessary in United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are assurance that the Group financial statements are free from set out in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We also report to you whether in our opinion the information accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26 December 2008 statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: information that is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Executives Review, Operational Reviews, Financial Review and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Corporate Social Responsibility Report that is cross referred from the IAS Regulation: and the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not with the Group financial statements.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects Ernst & Young LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Registered Auditor Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Glasgow the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We 10 March 2009 are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 45
