Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Financial Highlights 2008, 2008 Highlights, the Chairmans The Weir Group PLC Statement, Our Geographic Footprint, Chief Executives Review, Operational Reviews, Financial Review, Board of Directors & Group We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir Operations Executive, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2008 which Statement, Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 Report, unaudited part of Remuneration Committee Report to 16.
These Company financial statements have been prepared and Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
We consider the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent audited the information in the Remuneration Committee misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company Report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of other information.
The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2008.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Company's members those matters we are required to state to relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions of the Company financial statements and of whether the accounting we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Remuneration Committee Report and the Company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted assurance that the Company financial statements and the part Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Statement of of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free Responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Committee Report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company In our opinion financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is as at 26 December 2008: consistent with the Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that information that the Company financial statements and the part of the is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been properly Review, Operational Reviews, Financial Review and Corporate prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Social Responsibility Report that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Ernst & Young LLP information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Registered Auditor and other transactions is not disclosed.
Glasgow We read other information contained in the annual report and 10 March 2009 consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 99
