indEPEndEnT AudiTORS REPORT TO THE mEmBERS Of WH SmiTH PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of WH Smith PLC We read the other information contained in the annual report for the year ended 31 August 2008 which comprise the Group as described in the contents section and consider whether income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of movements in equity and the related notes We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 1 to 34.
These Group financial statements have been prepared of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend the information in the directors remuneration report that is to any further information outside the annual report.
described as having been audited.
BASiS Of AudiT OPiniOn We have reported separately on the individual Company financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2008.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the members those matters we are required to state to them in an significant estimates and judgements made by the directors auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups anyone other than the Company and the Companys members circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary RESPECTivE RESPOnSiBiLiTiES Of diRECTORS And AudiTORS in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from in accordance with applicable law and International Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in report described to be audited.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
OPiniOn In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2008 and of its Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and profit for the year then ended: and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described the Group financial statements have been properly prepared as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our IAS Regulation: opinion, the information given in the directors report is consistent the part of the directors remuneration report described as having with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the directors report includes that specific information presented in the Companies Act 1985: and Business Review and the Financial Review that is cross referred the information given in the directors report is consistent with from the directors report.
In addition we also report to you if, in our the Group financial statements.
opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding SEPARATE OPiniOn in RELATiOn TO ifRSs directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
As explained in Note 1 of the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Board.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal as at 31 August 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Deloitte & Touche LLP or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 9 October 2008 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 42
