indEPEndEnT AudiTORS REPORT TO THE mEmBERS Of WH SmiTH PLC We have audited the individual Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2008 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the 1 to 6.
These individual Company financial statements have Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
We have reported separately on the Group financial It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August and judgements made by the directors in the preparation 2008 and on the information in the directors remuneration of the individual Company financial statements, and of report that is described as having been audited.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as adequately disclosed.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all we might state to the Companys members those matters the information and explanations which we considered we are required to state to them in an auditors report and necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone financial statements are free from material misstatement, other than the Company and the Companys members as whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall opinions we have formed.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the individual Company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual Opinion report, the directors remuneration report and the In our opinion: individual Company financial statements in accordance the individual Company financial statements give a with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of the Companys affairs as at 31 August 2008: of directors responsibilities.
the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company Act 1985: and financial statements and the part of the directors the information given in the directors report remuneration report to be audited in accordance with is consistent with the financial statements.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual London Company financial statements give a true and fair view and 9 October 2008 whether the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the directors report is consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited individual Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 76
