inDepenDent auDitors report to the members of Wincanton plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Wincanton plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statement of cash flows, and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Basis of audit opinion out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the EU, and for preparing the parent Company financial statements and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting to be audited.
Practice UK GAAP are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 36.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the on Auditing UK & Ireland.
Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards Regulation: the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, information given in the Directors report includes that specific of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: information presented in the Business review which is cross referenced from the Directors report.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Chartered Accountants Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Registered Auditor Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 100 Temple Street Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Bristol to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover BS1 6AG all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 4 June 2008 procedures.
49 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 consoliDateD income statement foR the yeAR ended 31 MARch 2008 2008 2007 Note m m Revenue 2 2,164.7 1,933.1 Underlying operating profit 52.4 45.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2 5.5 3.2 Exceptional restructuring costs and income 3 4.5 6.0 Other exceptional income 3 4.9 6.2 Operating profit 3 47.3 42.5 Financing income 5 3.7 3.7 Financing cost 5 14.5 13.6 Net financing costs 10.8 9.9 Share of results of associates 13 0.2 Profit before tax 36.7 32.6 Income tax expense 6 11.7 9.6 Profit for the year 25.0 23.0 Attributable to equity shareholders of Wincanton plc 24.5 22.9 minority interests 0.5 0.1 Profit for the year 25.0 23.0 Earnings per share basic 7 21.0p 19.7p diluted 7 20.6p 19.4p Dividends paid in the year to equity shareholders of Wincanton plc m 8 16.2 14.9 50 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008
