50 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the statements the financial statements of Wm Morrison effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or Supermarkets PLC for the 52 weeks ended 3 February 2008 which its risk and control procedures.
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated We read the other information contained in the Annual report and Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and statements.
We consider the implications for our report if expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration do not extend to any other information.
report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Companys members those matters we are required to state to to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the we have formed.
Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information and explanations which we considered necessary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the on page 49. presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Groups affairs as at 3 February 2008 and of its profit for the year the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have then ended, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the IAS Regulation, financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair includes the information presented in the Chairmans statement, view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Chief Executives business review and Financial review that is cross Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
3 February 2008, In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 KPMG Audit Plc Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Chartered Accountants Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditor required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Leeds 12 March 2008
