Our 2008 financial statements Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members Respective responsibilities of directors of WPP plc and auditors We have audited the Group and parent company financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual statements the financial statements of WPP plc for the Report and the Group financial statements in accordance year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Accounting Policies, the Consolidated Income Statement Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and excluding the US dollar information, the Consolidated Cash for preparing the parent company financial statements and Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Parent Company Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial statements have are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in We have also audited the information in the directors accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report is made solely to the companys members, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies statements give a true and fair view and are properly Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 that we might state to the companys members those matters and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited we are required to state to them in an auditors report and has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, UK Companies Act 1985, that would have applied if WPP we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other plc were a UK incorporated company.
We also report to you than the company and the companys members as a body, if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper have formed.
accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 173 Our 2008 financial statements Independent auditors report Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the 2008 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes the parent company financial statements give a true and an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent statements, and of whether the accounting policies are companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: appropriate to the Group and companys circumstances, the Group and parent company financial statements have consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Jersey Law 1991: and all the information and explanations which we considered the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are UK Companies Act 1985, that would have applied if WPP plc free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud were a UK incorporated company.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Separate opinion in relation to IFRS: also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of As explained in the accounting policies to the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements, the Group, in addition to complying with IFRSs directors remuneration report to be audited.
as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants London, United Kingdom 14 April 2009 174 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008
