Financial statements and information annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Group We have audited the Group financial statements of Xchanging plc We read other information contained in the annual report and for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, statement, the business review, corporate social responsibility and the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
We consider the implications for our These Group financial statements have been prepared under report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or the accounting policies set out therein.
material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 Basis of audit opinion and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that We conducted our audit in accordance with International is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups of Directors responsibilities within the Directors report.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and information and explanations which we considered necessary International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the assurance that the Group financial statements are free from Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Group financial statements.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended We also report to you whether in our opinion the information the Group financial statements have been properly prepared given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 financial statements.
The information given in the Directors of the IAS Regulation report includes that specific information that is cross referred the information given in the Directors report is consistent to in the Directors report.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors  LLP remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 2 March 2009 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
