annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Company We have audited the parent company financial statements of We read the other information contained within the annual Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited comprise the balance sheet, the cash flow statement and the parent company financial statements.
The other information related notes.
These parent company financial statements have comprises only the Chairmans statement, the business review, been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
corporate social responsibility and our people and governance.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We consider the implications for our report if we become aware remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities We have reported separately on the Group financial statements do not extend to any other information.
of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Directors remuneration report and the parent company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom company financial statements and the part of the Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment statement of Directors responsibilities within the Directors report.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report statements, and of whether the accounting policies to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the information and explanations which we considered with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the of information in the parent company financial statements and parent company financial statements and the part of the the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Directors remuneration report to be audited have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information the financial statements give a true and fair view, in given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted company financial statements.
The information given in the Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys Directors report includes that specific information that is cross affairs as at 31 December 2008 referred to in the Directors report.
the parent company financial statements have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information given in the Directors report is consistent the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if with the parent company financial statements.
information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 2 March 2009 116 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 back.
