Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Xstrata plc for Basis of audit opinion the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to related notes 1 to 38.
These Group financial statements have been the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we members those matters we are required to state to them in an also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in the Group financial statements.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Opinion our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and of its profit for the year then ended: as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Directors Responsibilities.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the IAS Regulation: and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The Ernst & Young LLP information given in the Directors Report includes that specic Registered auditor information presented in the Operating Review and Financial London, Review that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
2 March 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the responsibility of the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these other transactions is not disclosed.
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the the website.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement and that part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is unaudited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
