Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Xstrata plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Xstrata Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
These parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates We have reported separately on the Group financial statements and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit applied and adequately disclosed.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the members those matters we are required to state to them in an information and explanations which we considered necessary in order auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone that the parent company financial statements and the part of the other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the the presentation of information in the parent company financial Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and to be audited.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Opinion Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements give a true and fair and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
as at 31 December 2008: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the parent company financial statements and the part of the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the parent company financial statements.
Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating Review and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Ernst & Young LLP has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received Registered auditor all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or London if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration 2 March 2009 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the responsibility of the consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these financial statements.
The other information comprises only the matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial the website.
Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
