Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Yell Group plc reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions We have audited the group and parent company financial of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by statements the financial statements of Yell Group plc for the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Group we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance whether the boards statements on internal control cover Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Statements, the Group Statement of Recognised Income effectiveness of the groups corporate governance and Expense and the related notes.
These financial procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We read other information contained in the Annual Report information in the Directors Remuneration Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited that is described as having been audited.
The other information comprises the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Performance Review, the CEOs Strategic Overview and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Governance and Responsibility.
We consider the financial statements in accordance with applicable law implications for our report if we become aware of any and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with as adopted by the European Union are set out in the the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Basis of audit opinion and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We conducted our audit in accordance with International audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the requirements and International Standards on Auditing Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and been prepared for and only for the companys members disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving includes an assessment of the significant estimates and this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other judgments made by the directors in the preparation of purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the financial statements, and of whether the accounting shown or into whose hands it may come save where policies are appropriate to the groups and companys expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all financial statements and the part of the Directors the information and explanations which we considered Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our audited are free from material misstatement, whether opinion the information given in the Directors Report is caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming consistent with the financial statements.
The information our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of given in the Directors Report includes that specific the presentation of information in the financial statements information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to CEOs Strategic Overview, the Performance review and be audited.
Governance and Responsibility that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
56 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Financial & shareholder information Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008 and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 3 June 2008 57 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
