Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of BAE Systems plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might information and explanations which we considered necessary state to the Companys members those matters we are required in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Opinion law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as In our opinion: adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of for the year then ended: Directors Responsibilities on page 100. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance the IAS Regulation: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2008: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the parent company financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial and statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the financial statements.
Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has KPMG Audit Plc not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Chartered Accountants the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Registered Auditor information specified by law regarding directors remuneration London and other transactions is not disclosed.
18 February 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
