26 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group and Company income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statements, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company cash flow statements, the Group and Company statements includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 37. and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors Opinion remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as In our opinion: adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with responsibilities.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of the Groups profit the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant and the Companys loss for the year then ended: legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report financial statements.
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Deloitte LLP Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Operating review and Financial review that is cross referred from the London, United Kingdom Business and financial review section of the Directors report.
4 March 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section of the Directors report and accounts 2008 and the contents section of the Annual review 2008, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
