CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the Members of Capital Shopping Centres PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Capital Shopping Centres PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008, which comprise the group income statement, the group and parent company balance sheets, the group and parent company cash flow statements, the group and parent company statements of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
13 CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the period then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and its loss and cash flows for the period then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 13 May 2009 14
