Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the financial statements of Barratt Developments PLC for the year kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the ended 30 June 2008 which comprise the Group income statement, information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other Company cash flow statements, the Group statement of recognised transactions is not disclosed.
income and expense, the Accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 37, together with the statements on impact of standards and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the interpretations in issue but not yet effective and critical accounting Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
These financial Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys the Directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given to be audited.
in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review and Group Finance Directors review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
Barratt Developments 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London UK 9 September 2008 Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95
