Independent Auditors Report implications for our report if we become aware Independent Auditors Report to the of any apparent misstatements or material Members of F&C Commercial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Property Trust Limited Basis of Audit Opinion We have audited the Group financial statements the We conducted our audit in accordance with financial statements of F&C Commercial Property International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Trust Limited the Company for the year ended issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit 31 December 2008 which comprise the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of financial statements.
It also includes an assessment Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow of the significant estimates and judgements made Statement and the related notes.
These financial by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements have been prepared under the statements, and of whether the accounting policies accounting policies set out therein.
are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, This report is made solely to the Companys consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
members, as a body, in accordance with section We planned and performed our audit so as to 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our obtain all the information and explanations which we audit work has been undertaken so that we might considered necessary in order to provide us with state to the Companys members those matters we sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance are required to state to them in an auditors report that the financial statements are free from material and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other permitted by law, we do not accept or assume irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also responsibility to anyone other than the Company evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation and the Companys members as a body, for our of information in the financial statements.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors.
give a true and fair view of the state of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of financial statements which give a true and fair view, its loss for the year then ended: are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in compliance with.
are in accordance with International Financial applicable Guernsey law are set out in the Directors Reporting Standards: and Responsibilities for the Financial Statements on.
comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, page 23.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory KPMG Channel Islands Limited requirements and International Standards on Guernsey Auditing UK and Ireland.
Channel Islands We report to you our opinion as to whether the 31 March 2009 financial statements give a true and fair view, are in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance accordance with International Financial Reporting and integrity of the corporate and financial Standards and comply with The Companies information included on the Companys website.
We also report to you if, in The work carried out by the auditor does not our opinion, the Company has not kept proper include consideration of these matters and, accounting records, or if we have not received all accordingly the auditor accepts no responsibility for the information and explanations we require for our any changes that may have occurred to the financial audit.
statements or audit report since they were initially We read the other information accompanying the presented on the website.
Legislation governing the financial statements and consider whether it is preparation and dissemination of financial consistent with those statements.
We consider the statements may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
