2 Grainger plc annual report and accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the group financial statements of Grainger In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise not received all the information and explanations we the consolidated income statement, the consolidated require for our audit, or if information specified by law statement of recognised income and expense, the regarding directors remuneration and other transactions consolidated balance sheet, the statement of consolidated is not disclosed.
cash flows and the related notes.
These group financial We review whether the corporate governance report reflects statements have been prepared under the accounting the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the policies set out therein.
Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the We have reported separately on the parent company Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report financial statements of Grainger plc for the year ended if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the 30 September 2008 and on the information in the report boards statements on internal control cover all risks and of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the report that is described as having been audited.
groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We read other information contained in the annual report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual and consider whether it is consistent with the audited report and the group financial statements in accordance group financial statements.
The other information comprises with applicable law and International Financial Reporting only the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are the financial review, the corporate governance report, the set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
directors report, the corporate responsibility report and the unaudited part of the report of the remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements committee and directors remuneration report and the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements other items listed on both contents pages.
We consider and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with and only for the companys members as a body in the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 not extend to any other information.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or Basis of audit opinion to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed We conducted our audit in accordance with International by our prior consent in writing.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, We report to you our opinion as to whether the group on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes the group financial statements have been properly prepared an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 made by the directors in the preparation of the group of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies our opinion the information given in the directors report are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the specific information presented in the chairmans statement information and explanations which we considered necessary and the chief executives review that is cross-referenced from in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give the review of business development and prospects section reasonable assurance that the group financial statements of the directors report.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the group financial statements 3 Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 16 December 2008 Note The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
