Basis of audit opinion Independent Auditors Report to the members We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK of BBA Aviation plc and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BBA Aviation plc for the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, 1 to 28.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to be audited.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Opinion report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: Remuneration Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 1985: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give consolidated financial statements.
a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described As explained in the Accounting Policies Note to the consolidated financial as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in information presented in the Business Review.
accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the of its profit for the year then ended.
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code London, United Kingdom specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 25 February 2009 and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
