Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 96 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Independent auditors statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors report to the members Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 of Quintain Estates and and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 Development plc of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial consistent with the financial statements.
The information statements the financial statements of Quintain Estates given in the Directors Report includes that specific and Developments plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 information presented in the Operating and Financial which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Review that is cross referred from the Business Review and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group Cashflow section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting and Expense and the related notes.
These financial records, if we have not received all the information and statements have been prepared under the accounting explanations we require for our audit, or if information policies set out therein.
We have also audited the specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and information in the Directors Remuneration Report that other transactions is not disclosed.
is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance This report is made solely to the Companys statement reflects the Companys compliance with the members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required members those matters we are required to state to them to consider whether the Boards statements on internal in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance assume responsibility to anyone other than the company procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, We read the other information contained in the for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the Respective responsibilities of Directors implications for our report if we become aware of any and auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not Report and the Group financial statements in accordance extend to any other information.
with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing Basis of audit opinion the Parent Company financial statements and the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 95. disclosures in the financial statements and the part Our responsibility is to audit the financial of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and judgements made by the directors in the preparation and regulatory requirements and International Standards of the financial statements, and of whether the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 97 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB
