53 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Savills plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Savills plc We have audited the Group and parent the financial statements.
The information given We planned and performed our audit so as Company financial statements the financial in the Directors Report includes that specific to obtain all the information and explanations statements of Savills plc for the year ended information presented in the Our Business and which we considered necessary in order Our Governance sections that are cross 31 December 2008 which comprise the to provide us with sufficient evidence to Consolidated income statement, the Group referred from the Directors Report.
give reasonable assurance that the financial and parent Company balance sheets, the statements and the part of the Directors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Group and parent Company statements of Remuneration Report to be audited are free the Company has not kept proper accounting cash flows, the Group and parent Company from material misstatement, whether caused records, if we have not received all the statements of recognised income and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming information and explanations we require for our opinion we also evaluated the overall expense and the related notes.
These financial our audit, or if information specified by law statements have been prepared under the adequacy of the presentation of information regarding Directors remuneration and other accounting policies set out therein.
We have in the financial statements and the part of the transactions is not disclosed.
also audited the information in the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Remuneration Report that is described as We review whether the Corporate Governance Opinion having been audited.
Statement reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: with the nine provisions of the Combined Code Respective responsibilities of Directors 2006 specified for our review by the Listing the Group financial statements give a true and auditors Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as The Directors responsibilities for preparing we report if it does not.
We are not required to adopted by the European Union, of the state the Annual Report, the Directors consider whether the Boards statements on of the Groups affairs as at 31 December Remuneration Report and the financial internal control cover all risks and controls, or 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the statements in accordance with applicable form an opinion on the effectiveness of the year then ended: law and International Financial Reporting Groups corporate governance procedures or Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the parent Company financial statements its risk and control procedures.
European Union are set out in the give a true and fair view, in accordance with Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We read other information contained in the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Annual Report and consider whether it is as applied in accordance with the provisions Our responsibility is to audit the financial consistent with the audited financial statements.
of the Companies Act 1985, of the state statements and the part of the Directors The other information comprises only the of the parent Companys affairs as at Remuneration Report to be audited in Directors Report, the unaudited part of 31 December 2007 and cash flows for accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the Directors Remuneration Report, the the year then ended: requirements and International Standards Chairmans Statement, the Review of on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, the financial statements and the part of Operations, the Financial Review, Corporate including the opinion, has been prepared for the Directors Remuneration Report to be Governance Report and all of the other and only for the Companys members as a audited have been properly prepared in information listed on the contents page.
We body in accordance with Section 235 of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 consider the implications for our report if we the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and, as regards the Group financial become aware of any apparent misstatements purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: or material inconsistencies with the financial accept or assume responsibility for any other and statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend purpose or to any other person to whom this to any other information.
the information given in the Directors Report report is shown or into whose hands it may is consistent with the financial statements.
come save where expressly agreed by Basis of audit opinion our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with  LLP International Standards on Auditing UK and We report to you our opinion as to whether the Chartered Accountants and Registered Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements give a true and fair view Auditors An audit includes examination, on a test basis, and whether the financial statements and the 1 Embankment Place of evidence relevant to the amounts and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to London WC2N 6RH disclosures in the financial statements and the be audited have been properly prepared in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to 10 March 2009 accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, be audited.
It also includes an assessment of a The maintenance and integrity of the Savills plc website is as regards to the Group financial statements, the significant estimates and judgments made the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, by the Directors in the preparation of the to you whether in our opinion the information accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any financial statements, and of whether the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements given in the Directors Report is consistent with since they were initially presented on the website.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
