3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 33 Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure Limited We have audited the consolidated financial statements We consider the implications for our report if we the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure Limited become aware of any apparent misstatements the Company and its subsidiaries together the or material inconsistencies with the financial Group for the period ended 31 March 2008 which statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the any other information.
Consolidated and Company Statements of Equity, the Consolidated Company Balance Sheets, the Basis of audit opinion Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the We conducted our audit in accordance with International accounting policies A to I and the related notes 1 to 18.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the These financial statements have been prepared under Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the accounting policies set out therein.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also This report is made solely to the Companys members, as includes an assessment of the significant estimates a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies and judgments made by the directors in the preparation Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken of the financial statements, and of whether the so that we might state to the Companys members accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and those matters we are required to state to them in an the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest adequately disclosed.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, the information and explanations which we considered for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused and auditors by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Report and the financial statements in accordance presentation of information in the financial statements.
with applicable Jersey Law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs are set out in the Statement Opinion of Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements the Groups financial statements give a true and fair in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the requirements and International Standards on Auditing Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit UK and Ireland.
for the period then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Company financial statements give a true and statements give a true and fair view and whether the fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of financial statements have been properly prepared in the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: and accordance with the Companies Jersey Law.
the financial statements have been properly prepared In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law.
Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Jersey Report and consider whether it is consistent with the 11 June 2008 audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Advisers Review, the Portfolio, Risks and Uncertainties, the Corporate Responsibility Report, the table of Investments, the Board of Directors, the Directors Report, the Investment Policy, the Portfolio Valuation Methodology and Information for shareholders.
