Independent Auditors report to the Members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC We have audited the group and parent with the financial statements.
The information company financial statements the ''financial given in the Directors' Report includes that statements'' of Aberdeen Asset Management specific information presented in the PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008 Chairmans Statement and Business Review which comprise the Group Income Statement, that is cross referred from the business review the Group and Parent Company Balance section of the Directors' Report.
Sheets, the Group and Parent Company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Statements of Cash Flows, the Group and the company has not kept proper accounting Parent Company Statements of Recognised records, if we have not received all the Income and Expenses, and the related notes.
information and explanations we require for These financial statements have been prepared our audit, or if information specified by law under the accounting policies set out therein.
regarding directors' remuneration and other We have also audited the information in the transactions is not disclosed.
Directors' Remuneration Report that is We review whether the Corporate Governance described as having been audited.
Statement reflects the company's compliance This report is made solely to the company's with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined members, as a body, in accordance with Code specified for our review by the Listing section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and audit work has been undertaken so that we we report if it does not.
We are not required might state to the company's members those to consider whether the board's statements on matters we are required to state to them in an internal control cover all risks and controls, or auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Groups corporate governance procedures or its accept or assume responsibility to anyone risk and control procedures.
other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this We read the other information contained in report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for Respective responsibilities of our report if we become aware of any apparent Directors and Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with The directors' responsibilities for preparing the the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Annual Report, the Directors' Remuneration do not extend to any other information.
Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Basis of audit opinion International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Eu are set out in the We conducted our audit in accordance with Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on International Standards on Auditing uK and page 56.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Our responsibility is to audit the financial of evidence relevant to the amounts and statements and the part of the Directors' disclosures in the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited in part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to accordance with relevant legal and regulatory be audited.
It also includes an assessment of requirements and International Standards on the significant estimates and judgments made Auditing uK and Ireland.
by the directors in the preparation of the We report to you our opinion as to whether financial statements, and of whether the the financial statements give a true and fair accounting policies are appropriate to the view and whether the financial statements and Groups and company's circumstances, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
to be audited have been properly prepared in We planned and performed our audit so as to accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, obtain all the information and explanations as regards the group financial statements, which we considered necessary in order to Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report provide us with sufficient evidence to give to you whether in our opinion the information reasonable assurance that the financial given in the Directors' Report is consistent Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57 Independent Auditors' report to the Members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC continued statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company's affairs as at 30 September 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 37 Albyn Place, Aberdeen 8 December 2008 58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
