f I n A n c I A L s tAt E M E n t s Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc We have audited the group and parent view and whether the financial statements company financial statements the ''financial and the part of the Directors' Remuneration statements'' of Admiral Group plc for the year Report to be audited have been properly ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the prepared in accordance with the Companies Group Income Statement, the Parent Company Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial Profit and Loss Account, the Group and Parent statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow We also report to you whether in our opinion Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised the information given in the Directors' Report Income and Expenses and the related notes.
is consistent with the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared The information given in the Directors' Report under the accounting policies set out therein.
includes that specific information presented We have also audited the information in in the Chairmans statement, the Chief the Directors' Remuneration Report that is Executives statement and the Business review described as having been audited.
that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors' Report.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the Company has not kept proper accounting audit work has been undertaken so that we records, if we have not received all the might state to the Company's members those information and explanations we require for matters we are required to state to them in our audit, or if information specified by law an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
regarding directors' remuneration and other To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do transactions is not disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Company's We review whether the Corporate Governance members as a body, for our audit work, for this Statement reflects the Company's compliance report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Respective responsibilities of Directors and Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and auditors we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on The Directors' responsibilities for preparing internal control cover all risks and controls, or the Annual Report and the Group financial form an opinion on the effectiveness of the statements in accordance with applicable Group's corporate governance procedures or its law and International Financial Reporting risk and control procedures.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial We read the other information contained statements and the Directors' Remuneration in the Annual Report and consider whether Report in accordance with applicable law it is consistent with the audited financial and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally statements.
We consider the implications Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in for our report if we become aware of the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in any apparent misstatements or material the Directors report.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Our responsibility is to audit the financial other information.
statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in Basis of audit opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory We conducted our audit in accordance with requirements and International Standards on International Standards on Auditing UK and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We report to you our opinion as to whether An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the financial statements give a true and fair of evidence relevant to the amounts and Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's and Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Company's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Cardiff 3 March 2009
