64 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of BG Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company Financial BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Statements the Financial Statements of BG Group plc for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statement, the Balance sheets, the Cash flow statements, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the Principal accounting policies, and the related notes.
These the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with applicable law and International Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including Statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies OPINION Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements the parent company Financial Statements give a true and fair and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its cash flows for the with the Financial Statements.
year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the information and explanations we require for our audit, or with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the with the Financial Statements.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance  LLP procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read other information contained in the Annual Report 11 March 2009 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the items listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2008 audited Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
