INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited Scope These Standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote KPMG the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial Audit Plc in relation to UK professional and regulatory responsibilities statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and reporting obligations to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and KPMG to be audited are free from material misstatement.
in relation to Australian professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of BHP Billiton Limited.
KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG report to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited respectively, our opinions as to whether The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc and the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled at the end of financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the year or from time to time during the financial year.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance We have audited the Group financial statements for the year ended with relevant UK and Australian requirements respectively.
The UK 30 June 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, requirements are those of the UK Companies Act 1985 and Article consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Australian requirements are those of consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement, the Australian Accounting Standards, Australian statutory requirements summary of accounting policies and other explanatory notes 1 to 38 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements in Australia.
and the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is KPMG Audit Plc also reports to the members of BHP Billiton Plc described as having been audited.
KPMG Audit Plc has also audited whether, in its opinion, the information given in the Directors the Parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc for Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information the year ended 30 June 2008 which comprise the Parent company given in the Directors Report includes that specific information balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 9.
KPMG has also audited presented in the various sections referred to in the Principal the Directors declaration.
The Group financial statements and the activities, state of affairs and business review section of the Parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc collectively Directors Report.
KPMG Audit Plc also reports if, in its opinion, referred to as the financial statements have been prepared under BHP Billiton Plc has not kept proper accounting records: if it has not the accounting policies set out therein.
received all the information and explanations it requires for its audit: KPMG Audit Plcs report is made solely to the members of if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and BHP Billiton Plc, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the other transactions is not disclosed: and if the Corporate Governance UK Companies Act 1985 and, in respect of the opinion in relation Statement does not reflect BHP Billiton Plcs compliance with the to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for its review IASB, on terms that have been agreed.
KPMG Audit Plcs audit by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
KPMG Audit work has been undertaken so that it might state to the members Plc is not required to consider whether the Boards statements on of BHP Billiton Plc those matters it is required to state to them in internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on an auditors report and, in respect of the opinion in relation to IFRS the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures as issued by the IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to or its risk and control procedures.
them in our report, and for no other purpose.
KPMG has conducted an We read the other information contained in the Annual Report independent audit of the Group financial statements solely in order to and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial express an opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Limited and for no statements.
We consider the implications for our reports if other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, KPMG Audit we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Plc does not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities BHP Billiton Plc and the members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body, for do not extend to any other information.
KPMG Audit Plcs audit work, for this report, or for the opinions it has formed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, KPMG does not accept Basis of audit opinions or assume responsibility to anyone other than BHP Billiton Limited We conducted our audits in accordance with relevant legal and and the members of BHP Billiton Limited as a body, for KPMGs audit regulatory requirements, International Standards on Auditing work, for this report, or for the opinions it has formed.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with Australian Auditing Standards.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report An audit involves performing procedures, which include and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable examination, conducted on a test basis, to obtain audit evidence law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent company financial and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements of BHP Billiton Plc and the Directors Remuneration An audit also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and financial statements, and the part of the Directors Remuneration for preparing the Group financial statements and the Directors Report to be audited, and of whether the accounting policies Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Australian Corporations Act 2001, applicable Australian Accounting consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards and other mandatory financial reporting requirements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the to complying with their legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those by the EU, the Directors have also applied IFRS as issued by the risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant IASB when preparing the Group financial statements.
to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial Additionally, the Directors are responsible for establishing and statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an presentation of financial statements that are free from material opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and that are reasonable in the circumstances.
judgements made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and the remuneration The Directors responsibilities pursuant to their reporting obligations disclosures in the Remuneration Report identified as being audited.
to the members of BHP Billiton Plc are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
In conducting Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part our audit, KPMG has complied with the independence requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance of the Australian Corporations Act 2001. with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards and to express an opinion thereon based on those audits.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 - 243 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
indb 243 9 9 12 08 9:55:03 AM 12 08 9:55:03 AM INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited continued Audit opinion of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, of the state of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2008: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is in accordance with part 3 of schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985: the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements: and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor London 9 September 2008 Audit opinion of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited In our opinion: a the financial report of the Group is in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001, including: i giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 30 June 2008 and of its performance for the financial year ended on that date: and ii complying with Australian Accounting Standards including the Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Australian Corporations Regulations 2001. b t he financial report of the Group also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in note 1. c the remuneration disclosures that are contained in the sections of the Directors Remuneration Report described as being audited comply with Section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
KPMG Peter Nash Partner Melbourne 9 September 2008 244 - BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5 5463 BHPB AR Book.
