INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited on the summary financial report Scope Basis of opinions For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote The independent auditors reports in respect of the Groups KPMG Audit Plc in relation to UK professional and regulatory full annual financial statements describe the basis of our opinions responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of on those financial statements and the information in the Directors BHP Billiton Plc and KPMG in relation to Australian professional Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the KPMG Audit Plc conducted its work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 members of BHP Billiton Limited.
The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
and BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled at the KPMG performed procedures in respect of the audit of the summary end of the year or from time to time during the financial year.
financial report to form an opinion whether, in all material respects, We have examined the summary financial report which comprises the summary financial report is presented fairly in accordance with the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement Australian Accounting Standard AASB 1039 Concise Financial Reports.
of recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, We formed our opinions on the basis of these procedures, consolidated cash flow statement, accompanying notes 1 to 5, the which included: Directors Declaration and the relevant information in the Directors testing that the information in the summary financial report is Remuneration Report, which for Australian reporting purposes is derived from, and is consistent with, the full financial report: and limited to the information that is described as having been audited.
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts The summary financial report has been derived from the audited and other disclosures which were not directly derived from financial report of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2008. the full financial report.
The summary financial report does not contain all the disclosures We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient required by Australian Accounting Standards, the Australian and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Corporations Act 2001 and applicable United Kingdom law that are required for inclusion in a set of full financial statements.
While we considered the effectiveness of managements internal Reading the summary financial report is not a substitute for controls over financial reporting when determining the nature and reading the audited financial report of the Group.
extent of our procedures, our audit was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls.
KPMG Audit Plcs report is made solely to the members of BHP Billiton Plc, as a body, in accordance with section 251 We have also conducted audits of the full financial report of the of the UK Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plcs work has been Group for the year ended 30 June 2008.
Our audit reports on the undertaken so that it might state to the members of BHP Billiton Plc full financial report were signed on 9 September 2008, and were those matters it is required to state to them in such a report and for not subject to any modification.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, KPMG In conducting our audit, KPMG has complied with the independence Audit Plc does not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001. than BHP Billiton Plc and the members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body, for KPMG Audit Plcs work, for this report, or for the opinions it has Opinion of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc formed.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, KPMG does not accept In our opinion the summary financial report is consistent with or assume responsibility to anyone other than BHP Billiton Limited the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the members of BHP Billiton Limited as a body, for KPMGs work, and the Directors Remuneration Report of BHP Billiton Plc for for this report, or for the opinions it has formed.
the year ended 30 June 2008 and complies with the applicable Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors requirements of section 251 of the UK Companies Act 1985 and the regulations thereunder.
The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the summary financial report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standard AASB 1039 Concise Financial Reports, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable United Kingdom law.
This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the summary financial report: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making KPMG Audit Plc accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor KPMG Audit Plcs responsibility is to report to the members of London BHP Billiton Plc its opinion on the consistency of the summary 9 September 2008 financial report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and Opinion of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of In our opinion, the summary financial report of the BHP Billiton the UK Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2008 complies with KPMGs responsibility is to express an opinion to the members Australian Accounting Standard 1039 Concise Financial Reports.
of BHP Billiton Limited on the summary financial report based on its audit procedures.
KPMG conducted an independent audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards of the financial report of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2008.
Australian Auditing Standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform KPMG the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial report for the year is free of material misstatement and the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited complies with section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Peter Nash We also read the other information contained in the Concise Annual Partner Report and consider the implications for our reports if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial report.
Melbourne 9 September 2008 84 - BHP BILLITON PLC CONCISE ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5604 BHPB Concise Sec 5-BC.
