Independent auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial Highlights and Business review that is cross referred from the statements the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc Principal Activity and Business Review section of the for the year ended 30 June 2008 which comprise the Directors Report.
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and all the information and explanations we require for our audit, Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the or if information specified by law regarding directors related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement that is described as having been audited.
reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and state to the companys members those matters we are controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not control procedures.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit We read the other information contained in the Annual Report work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for Respective responsibilities of directors our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and auditors or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We read the other information contained in the Annual Report International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Responsibilities on page 27. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the do not extend to any other information.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Basis of audit opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Report to be audited have been properly prepared in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments also report to you whether in our opinion the information given made by the directors in the preparation of the financial in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are statements.
The information given in the Directors Report appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, includes that specific information presented in the Financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
40 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys information and explanations which we considered affairs as at 30 June 2008: necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to the financial statements and the part of the Directors give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also of the IAS Regulation: and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state KPMG Audit Plc of the groups affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its profit Chartered Accountants for the year then ended: One Canada Square London E14 5AG the parent company financial statements give a true and Registered Auditor fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 16 September 2008 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 41
