Financial statements IFRS 120 285 Aviva plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Independent auditors report Other information to the shareholders of Aviva plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Accounting Policies, the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements, the pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit before tax, the Consolidated and Parent Company statement of recognised income and expense the Consolidated and Parent Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements and the related notes 1 to 58 and A to H. We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Overview, the Business review, the Board of directors, Executive management, the Directors report, the Corporate governance report, the Audit committee report, the Nomination committee report, the Risk and regulatory committee report, the Corporate social responsibility committee report, Other information, Aviva MCEV Financial statements and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Aviva plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Aviva plc continued Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Parent Company's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of the Groups loss and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: The financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in the Accounting Policies to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 4 March 2009
