Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc formerly known as Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Group and Companys financial regarding directors remuneration and other transactions statements the financial statements of BlackRock World are not disclosed.
Mining Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2008, which We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Group and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Group and of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Company Balance Sheets, Group and Company Cash Flow Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Statements, and the related notes 1 to 22.
These financial report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether statements have been prepared under the accounting the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We read other information contained in the Annual Report body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might financial statements.
The other information comprises only state to the Companys members those matters we are the Objective, Performance Record, Chairmans Statement, required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Investment Managers Report, Ten Largest Investments, other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Investments, Portfolio Analysis, Directors, Directors Report not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the including the Business Review, the unaudited part of the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Directors Remuneration Report, Analysis of Ordinary audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Shareholders, Base Costs, Management & Administration, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting, Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting and Glossary.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We consider the implications for our report if we become Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the aware of any apparent misstatements or material financial statements in accordance with applicable United inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the We conducted our audit in accordance with International part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial assessment of the significant estimates and judgements statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial Report to be audited have been properly prepared in statements, and of whether the accounting policies are accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We also report to you whether the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered In addition we also report to you if, in our opinion, the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and have not received all the information and explanations we the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited require for our audit, or if information specified by law are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 31 Report of the Independent Auditor continued to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc formerly known as Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: the Companys financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 11 February 2009 32 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
