BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLOSE ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED We have audited the Company's financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Statement of Operations, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 14.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 64 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey law as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises About the Company, Directors, Administrator and Company Secretary, Chairmans Statement, Report by the Manager of AllBlue Limited, Management Report, Report of the Directors, Schedule of Investments, Shareholder Information and Directors and Service Providers.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
36 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2008 and of its results for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
Emphasis of matter Going concern In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not qualified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure made in note 1 b to the financial statements concerning the likelihood of the Company continuing as a going concern.
The possibility of a continuation vote indicates the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the likelihood of the Company continuing as a going concern.
The financial statements do not include adjustments that would result if the Company were not to continue as a going concern.
Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 37
