Independent Auditors Report whether the financial statements and the part of the Independent Auditors Report to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Members of British Assets been properly prepared in accordance with the Trust plc Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you We have audited the Companys financial whether in our opinion the information given in the statements for the year ended 30 September 2008 Report of the Directors is consistent with the which comprise the Income Statement, financial statements.
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and Company has not kept proper accounting records, if related notes 1 to 19.
These financial statements we have not received all the information and have been prepared under the accounting policies explanations we require for our audit, or if set out therein.
We have also audited the information specified by law regarding Directors information in the Directors Remuneration Report remuneration and other transactions is not that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys We review whether the Corporate Governance members, as a body, in accordance with Section Statement reflects the Companys compliance with 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code been undertaken so that we might state to the specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Companys members those matters we are required Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does to state to them in an auditors report and for no not.
We are not required to consider whether the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Boards statements on internal control cover all risks law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness anyone other than the Company and the Companys of the Companys corporate governance procedures members as a body, for our audit work, for this or its risk and control procedures.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained in the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent Auditors with the audited financial statements.
This other The Directors responsibilities for preparing the information comprises only the Company Summary, Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report Financial Highlights for the Year, Performance and the financial statements in accordance with Summary, Chairmans Statement, Investment applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Managers and Investment Process, Managers Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Review, Investment Portfolio, Classification of Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Investments, Capital Structure, Ten Year Record, Directors Responsibilities.
Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Report, Shareholder Information, How to Invest, and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Notice of Annual General Meeting and Corporate to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Information.
We consider the implications for our regulatory requirements and International Standards report if we become aware of any apparent on Auditing UK and Ireland.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not We report to you our opinion as to whether the extend to any other information.
financial statements give a true and fair view and Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Independent Auditors Report continued Basis of Audit Opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit in accordance with United Kingdom Generally includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2008 and financial statements and the part of the Directors of the net return for the year then ended: Remuneration Report to be audited.
the financial statements and the part of the an assessment of the significant estimates and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited judgements made by the Directors in the preparation have been properly prepared in accordance with of the financial statements, and of whether the the Companies Act 1985: and accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and.
the information given in the Report of the adequately disclosed.
Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Ernst & Young LLP Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Registered Auditor free from material misstatement, whether caused by Edinburgh fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our 14 November 2008 opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
