Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 29 Independent Auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of Caledonia Investments plc for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the group and parent company Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit income statements, the group and parent company balance sheets, the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts group and parent company cash flow statements, the group and parent and disclosures in the financial statements and the parts of the directors company statements of recognised income and expense, and the related remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have been prepared under the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting in the directors remuneration report that is described as having policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, been audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and financial statements and the parts of the directors remuneration report for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the parts of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Opinion directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance In our opinion: with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups and of directors responsibilities.
the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of the groups Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the parts and the parent companys loss for the year then ended: of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with the financial statements and the parts of the directors remuneration relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the parts of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been the information given in the directors report is consistent with the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as financial statements.
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referenced from the principal activities and results section of the directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Deloitte & Touche LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions London, United Kingdom is not disclosed.
29 May 2008 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
