Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 28 Report of the independent auditor 29 Accounting policies 32 Group income statement 33 Statement of changes in equity 34 Group balance sheet 35 Company balance sheet 36 Group cash flow statement 37 Company cash flow statement 38 Notes to the financial statements 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting 65 Shareholder information 66 Candover and Advisers 67 Form of proxy Report of the independent auditor to the members of Candover Investments plc We have audited the Group and parent includes that specific information presented in which we considered necessary in order to company financial statements the financial the operational and financial reviews and the provide us with sufficient evidence to give statements of Candover Investments plc for Chairmans statement that is cross-referred reasonable assurance that the financial the year ended 31st December, 2008 which from the business review section of the statements and the part of the directors comprise the principal accounting policies, directors report.
remuneration report to be audited are free the Group income statement, the Group and from material misstatement, whether caused parent company balance sheets, the Group In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming and parent company cash flow statements, the Company has not kept proper accounting our opinion we also evaluated the overall the Group and parent company statements records, if we have not received all the adequacy of the presentation of information of changes in members equity and notes one information and explanations we require for in the financial statements and the part of the to 27.
These financial statements have been our audit, or if information specified by law directors remuneration report to be audited.
prepared under the accounting policies set out regarding directors remuneration and other therein.
We have also audited the information transactions is not disclosed.
Emphasis of matter in the directors remuneration report that is As discussed in the accounting policies described as having been audited.
We review whether the corporate governance section of the financial statements the Group statement reflects the Companys compliance faces material uncertainties over future results This report is made solely to the Companys with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined and cash flows.
The Directors have initiated members, as a body, in accordance with Code specified for our review by the Listing a number of discussions and strategic plans section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and to mitigate these uncertainties and have a audit work has been undertaken so that we we report if it does not.
We are not required reasonable expectation that they will reach a might state to the Companys members those to consider whether the Boards statements successful conclusion.
matters we are required to state to them in an on internal control cover all risks and controls, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the In forming our opinion on the financial the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Groups corporate governance procedures or statements, which is not qualified, we have accept or assume responsibility to anyone its risk and control procedures.
considered the adequacy of the disclosures other than the Company and the Companys made in the accounting policies in the members as a body, for our audit work, for this We read other information contained in the Company and Group financial statements report, or for the opinions we have formed.
annual report and consider whether it is concerning these material uncertainties.
consistent with the audited financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors The other information comprises only the Opinion and auditors directors report, the unaudited part of the In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing directors remuneration report, the Chairmans t he Group financial statements give a true the annual report, the directors remuneration statement, the operational and financial review, and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs report and the financial statements in the valuation policy, the 15 largest investments as adopted by the European Union, of accordance with applicable law and and the corporate governance statement.
We the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st International Financial Reporting Standards consider the implications for our report if we December, 2008 and of its loss for the year IFRSs as adopted by the European Union become aware of any apparent misstatements then ended are set out in the statement of directors or material inconsistencies with the financial t he parent company financial statements responsibilities.
Our responsibilities do not extend give a true and fair view, in accordance to any other information.
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Our responsibility is to audit the financial Union as applied in accordance with the statements and the part of the directors Basis of audit opinion provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of remuneration report to be audited in We conducted our audit in accordance with the state of the parent companys affairs as accordance with relevant legal and regulatory International Standards on Auditing UK and at 31st December, 2008 requirements and International Standards on Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices t he financial statements and the part of the Auditing UK and Ireland.
An audit includes examination, on a test directors remuneration report to be audited basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether disclosures in the financial statements and the with the Companies Act 1985 and, as the financial statements give a true and fair part of the directors remuneration report to be regards the Group financial statements, view and whether the financial statements audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the part of the directors remuneration significant estimates and judgments made by t he information given in the directors report report to be audited have been properly the directors in the preparation of the financial is consistent with the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies statements, and of whether the accounting Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial policies are appropriate to the Groups and Grant Thornton UK LLP statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Companys circumstances, consistently Registered Auditor We also report to you whether in our opinion applied and adequately disclosed.
Chartered Accountants the information given in the directors report London is consistent with the financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as 20th March, 2009 The information given in the directors report to obtain all the information and explanations Candover 28 Report and accounts 2008
