The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 51 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of The City of London Statement, Historical Performance, Top 40 Investments, Portfolio Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30 June 2008 which Manager's Report, Distribution of the Portfolio and Estimated comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Performance Attribution Analysis, Investments, Classification of Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement Investments and Portfolio Weighting, Directors and Management, and the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been Report of the Directors including the Business Review, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Directors' Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance, A Brief that is described as having been audited.
History, Dates of Dividend and Interest Payments, Glossary of Terms, General Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in and Directors and Other Information.
We consider the implications accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements work has been undertaken so that we might state to the or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Company's members those matters we are required to state to responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Basis of audit opinion to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the presentation of information in the financial statements and the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Opinion with the financial statements.
In our opinion: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its information specified by law report of the directors remuneration loss for the year then ended: and other transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not with the financial statements.
required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Registered Auditor consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial London statements.
The other information comprises only Objective and 8 September 2008 Benchmark, Financial Highlights, Contents, Chairman's
