42 Governance Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Close Brothers Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding statements the financial statements of Close Brothers Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2008 which comprise directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for to 30.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on This report is made solely to the companys members, as the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we We read the other information contained in the Annual might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other statements.
We consider the implications for our report than the company and the companys members as a body, if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Basis of audit opinion Report and the group financial statements in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with International with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Union, and for preparing the parent company financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and policies are appropriate to the groups and companys the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be circumstances, consistently applied and adequately audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory disclosed.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence statements give a true and fair view and whether the to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements financial statements and the part of the Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly audited are free from material misstatement, whether prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming whether, in addition, the group financial statements have our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the presentation of information in the financial statements IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to opinion the information given in the Directors Report is be audited.
consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement, Review of Operations and Social Responsibility statement that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 43 Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 July 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, UK 29 September 2008 An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background
