ID4530 Bc AR 2008 Insides 88pp 05. qxp 16 3 09 16:19 Page 29 Independent Auditors' Report To The Members Of Bodycote plc We have audited the group financial statements of Bodycote plc for BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Income and Expense, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements related notes 1 to 32.
These group financial statements have been and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration to be audited.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and audited the information in the Board Report on Remuneration that is judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the group described as having been audited.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied We have reported separately on the parent company financial and adequately disclosed.
statements of Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys group financial statements and the part of the Board Report on members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit of information in the group financial statements and the part of the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Board Report on Remuneration to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS OPINION The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the In our opinion: Board Report on Remuneration and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting the group financial statements give a true and fair view, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
of the state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the group financial statements have been properly prepared International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether with the Companies Act 1985: and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the with the Group financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specic information presented in the Group Business Review that is cross referred from the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Deloitte LLP information specified by law regarding director's remuneration and Chartered Accountants and Manchester other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditors 25 February 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
