DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED We have audited the financial statements of Dexion Absolute Basis of audit opinion Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Balance Sheet, the Income Statement, the Statement of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Cashflow Statement and Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on the related notes.
These financial statements have been a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial body, in accordance with section 64 of The Companies statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Guernsey Law, 1994.
Our audit work has been undertaken appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently so that we might state to the Companys members those applied and adequately disclosed.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility information and explanations which we considered to anyone other than the company and the companys necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are the opinions we have formed.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Respective responsibilities of directors evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of and auditors information in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and the financial statements in accordance with Opinion applicable Guernsey law and International Financial In our opinion the financial statements: Reporting Standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 21. give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of its result for the year then ended: and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
have been properly prepared in accordance with The We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Companies Guernsey Law, 1994. statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey KPMG Channel Islands Limited Law, 1994.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants Company has not kept proper accounting records, or if we Guernsey have not received all the information and explanations we 24 April 2009 require for our audit.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Dexion Alpha We read the Directors Report and consider the implications Strategies Limited website is the responsibility of the for our report if we become aware of any apparent Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not misstatements within it.
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes We read the other information accompanying the financial that may have occurred to the financial statements or statements and consider whether it is consistent with those audit report since they were initially presented on the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we website.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
b Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
