Independent Auditors Report to the Members of gh Dragon Trust plc Edinbur We have audited the financial statements of Edinburgh Dragon form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys Trust plc for the year ended 31 August 2008 which comprise the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of procedures.
Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes.
These financial statements have been We read the other information contained in the Annual Report prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Report that is described as having been audited.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Basis of Audit Opinion companys members those matters we are required to state to We conducted our audit in accordance with International them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, responsibility to anyone other than the company and the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, accounting policies are appropriate to the companys the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 28. information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Report to be audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Opinion the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our In our opinion: opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the financial statements give a true and fair view, in consistent with the financial statements.
The information given accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, in the Directors Report includes that specific information of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 August 2008 and presented in the Chairmans Statement, Managers Review and of its total return for the year then ended: financial summary that is cross referred from the Business the financial statements and the part of the Directors Review section of the Directors Report.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has the information given in the Directors Report is consistent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all with the financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration KPMG Audit Plc and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Edinburgh, 16 October 2008 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 30 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
