Independent Auditors Report We are not required to consider whether the Boards TO THE MEMBERS OF THE EDINBURGH statements on internal controls cover all risks and INVESTMENT TRUST PLC controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the We have audited the financial statements of The Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk Edinburgh Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 and control procedures.
March 2008 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders We read the other information contained in the Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement annual report and consider whether it is consistent and the related notes.
These financial statements have with the audited financial statements.
We consider the been prepared under the accounting policies set out implications for our report if we become aware of any therein.
We have also audited the information in the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Directors Remuneration Report that is described as the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not having been audited.
extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, members those matters we are required to state to them on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and the Companys members as a body, for our audit judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the financial statements, and of whether the accounting RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, AND AUDITORS consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the all the information and explanations which we financial statements in accordance with applicable law considered necessary in order to provide us with and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Responsibilities on page 26.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory information in the financial statements and the part of requirements and International Standards on Auditing the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial OPINION statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: financial statements and the part of the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as We also report to you whether in our opinion the at 31 March 2008 and of its loss for the year information given in the Directors Report is consistent then ended: with the financial statements.
The information given in the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Report includes that specific information Remuneration Report to be audited have been presented in the Business Review section of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our Act 1985: and opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting the information given in the Directors Report is records, if we have not received all the information and consistent with the financial statements.
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Chartered Accountants Statement reflects the Companys compliance with Registered Auditor the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code Edinburgh specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 29 May 2008 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 29
