Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of F&C Asset Management plc We have audited the Consolidated and Company Financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Statements the ''Financial Statements'' of F&C Asset consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which Statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated become aware of any apparent misstatements or material and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow do not extend to any other information.
Statement and the related notes.
These Financial Statements Basis of audit opinion have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' We conducted our audit in accordance with International Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Financial Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Company's members those matters we are required to state to significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's and responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Company material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Financial Statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on page 52. be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part Opinion of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial loss for the year then ended: Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, information given in the Directors Report includes the information of the state of the Parent Company's affairs as at presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the 31 December 2008: Directors Report.
the Company Financial Statements and the part of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 1985: and information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on KPMG Audit Plc internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Chartered Accountants the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance Registered Auditor procedures or its risk and control procedures.
