Report of the Independent Auditor to the Shareholders of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements the financial required to consider whether the Boards statements on statements of Fidelity European Values PLC for the internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow We read other information contained in the Annual Statement and Notes 1 to 20.
These financial statements Report and consider whether it is consistent with the have been prepared under the accounting policies set audited financial statements.
The other information out therein.
We have also audited the information in the comprises only the Objective and Highlights, Financial Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Summary, the Chairmans Statement, the Managers having been audited.
Review, Ten Largest Investments, Distribution of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, Portfolio, Summary of Performance, the Directors as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Report and the Full Portfolio Listing.
We consider the members those matters we are required to state to them implications for our report if we become aware of any in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company extend to any other information.
and the Companys members as a body, for our audit BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also and the financial statements in accordance with United includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are financial statements, and of whether the accounting set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory obtain all the information and explanations which requirements and International Standards on Auditing we considered necessary in order to provide us with UK and Ireland.
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that We report to you our opinion as to whether the the financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements give a true and fair view and Remuneration Report to be audited are free from whether the financial statements and the part of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also been properly prepared in accordance with the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether information in the financial statements and the part of in our opinion the information given in the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Report is consistent with the financial statements.
OPINION The information given in the Directors Report includes In our opinion: that specific information given in the Chairmans the financial statements give a true and fair view, Statement and the Managers Review that is cross in accordance with United Kingdom Generally referenced from the Business Review section of the Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Directors Report.
Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its net loss for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Remuneration Report to be audited have been have not received all the information and explanations properly prepared in accordance with the Companies we require for our audit, or if information specified by Act 1985: and law regarding Directors remuneration and other the information given in the Directors Report is transactions is not disclosed.
consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Grant Thornton UK LLP nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for Registered Auditor and Chartered Accountants our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services London Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 2 March 2009 Page 32 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008
