Independent Auditors Report control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Independent Auditors Report to the members of the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & We read other information contained in the annual report Colonial Eurotrust PLC for the year ended 30 September and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 2008 which comprise the Income Statement, the financial statements.
The other information comprises only Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the the Chairmans Statement, the Managers Review, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related Directors Report and Business Review, the Corporate notes.
These financial statements have been prepared Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Directors under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Remuneration Report and all of the other information listed also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration in the contents page.
We consider the implications for our Report that is described as having been audited.
report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Basis of audit opinion law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United We conducted our audit in accordance with International Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Financial Statements.
The Directors are also responsible for on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited includes an assessment of the significant estimates and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This the financial statements, and of whether the accounting report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, only for the Companys members as a body in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or all the information and explanations which we considered assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited consent in writing.
are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report information in the financial statements and the part of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report and Opinion Business Review is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: The information given in the Directors Report and Business the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Review includes that specific information presented in the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Chairmans Statement, Managers Review, List of Investments Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys and the Corporate Governance Statement which is cross affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its net return and referred from the Directors Report and Business Review.
cash flows for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly have not received all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the information given in the Directors Report and Business regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions Review is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance  LLP Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Chartered accountants and registered auditors nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for Hays Galleria our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 1 Hays Lane Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required London SE1 2RD to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 5 November 2008 Report and Accounts 2008 31
