Independent Auditors Report whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Independent Auditors Report to the risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness shareholders members of Foreign & Colonial of the companys corporate governance procedures or its Investment Trust PLC risk and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & Colonial We read other information contained in the Annual Report Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, financial statements.
The other information comprises the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements only the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report and in Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
These financial Business Review, the unaudited part of the Directors statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Remuneration Report, Financial Highlights, Twenty Largest set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Holdings, the Corporate Governance Statement and Ten Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Year Record.
We consider the implications for our report been audited.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance Basis of audit opinion with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Statements.
The Directors are also responsible for disclosures in the financial statements and the part of preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be judgements made by the directors in the preparation of audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the financial statements, and of whether the accounting requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
prepared for and only for the companys members as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies all the information and explanations which we considered Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving necessary, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited shown or into whose hands it may come save where are free from material misstatement, whether caused by expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements give a true and fair view and whether the information in the financial statements and the part of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Opinion 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the In our opinion: information given in the Directors Report and Business the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Review is consistent with the financial statements.
The accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted information given in the Directors Report and Business Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys Review includes that specific information presented in affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its net return and the Chairmans Statement, Fund Managers Review and cash flows for the year then ended: Twenty Largest Holdings that is cross referred from the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Business Review section of the Directors Report and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Business Review.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company the information given in the Directors Report and Business has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Review is consistent with the financial statements.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Hays Galleria reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions 1 Hays Lane of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review London SE1 2RD by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 5 March 2009 we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Report and Accounts 2008 39
