29223 Text p75 204. qxd:34180 FP AnnRep 075-204. qxd 2 4 09 18:52 Page 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRIENDS PROVIDENT PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the the financial statements of Friends Provident plc for the year effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income risk and control procedures.
statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cashflow statement, the Consolidated statement of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These financial consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Report of the Board that is described as having been audited.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Basis of audit opinion work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited.
It also work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law adequately disclosed.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and the Remuneration Report of the Board in accordance with and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report of the Responsibilities on page 61.
Board to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited in accordance in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International of the Board to be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In our opinion: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS year then ended: Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report IAS Regulation: includes that specific information presented in the Review of the the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair Year that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Directors Report.
Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have been properly information and explanations we require for our audit, or if prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects KPMG Audit Plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Chartered Accountants Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not London required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 26 March 2009 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 75
