Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GOLDMAN SACHS DYNAMIC OPPORTUNITIES LIMITED   which comprise the Statements of Assets and Liabilities, Statements of Operations, Statements of Changes in Equity and Net Assets Attributable to Holders of Repayable Shares, Statements of Cash Flows and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The  preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicableGuernsey law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companysmembers as a body  64 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994 and for noother purpose.
Wedonot, ingivingthisopinion,  purposeor toanyother  shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
We alsoreport to you whether in our opinion the information given in the .
, inouropinion, theCompanyhasnotkept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
 apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report, Board Members, the Directors Report, the Corporate Information and the Glossary of Hedge Fund Strategies.
Basis of audit opinion  UKandIreland .
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant tothe amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also , and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate tothe Companys circumstances, consistentlyapplied and adequately disclosed.
 to , whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion:  giveatrueandfair view,  asadoptedin the European Union, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 CI LLP Chartered Accountants Guernsey, Channel Islands 24 April 2009 19
