Independent auditors report to the members of Hargreaves Lansdown plc We have audited the Consolidated and Parent Company financial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not statements the ''financial statements'' of Hargreaves Lansdown plc for extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
the year ended 30 June 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Basis of audit opinion Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Statements, and the related notes 1 to 35.
These financial statements have Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the described as having been audited.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's and Company's work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Opinion Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with Group's affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its profit for the year then relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on ended: Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of state of the Parent Company's affairs as at 30 June 2008: the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properlythe financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Thethe information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific financial statements.
information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 June Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Deloitte & Touche LLP consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's Bristol, United Kingdom corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
24 September 2008 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 38
