40 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of HBOS plc We have audited the Consolidated and Parent Company Basis of audit opinion financial statements the financial statements of HBOS plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, signi cant estimates and judgements made by the directors and the related notes.
These financial statements have been in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a disclosed.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the state to the Companys members those matters we are required information and explanations which we considered necessary to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assurance that the financial statements are free from material assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this error.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the presentation of information in the financial statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Opinion Directors Report and the financial statements in accordance In our opinion: with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the the Consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 39. in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in for the year then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the IAS Regulation: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Parent Company financial statements give a true and the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies to you whether in our opinion, the information given in the Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The December 2008: information given in the Directors Report includes that speci c information presented in the Annual Report that is cross referred the Parent Company financial statements have been properly from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 : and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the information given in the Directors Report is consistent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all with the financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited KPMG Audit Plc financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Chartered Accountants report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Registered Auditor or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Edinburgh responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
