IG Group Holdings plc 90 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of IG Group Holdings plc In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has We have audited the Group and Company financial statements of IG not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received Group Holdings plc for the year ended 31 May 2008 which comprise all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Group income statement, the Group and Company statements information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and of changes in shareholders equity, the Group and Company balance other transactions is not disclosed.
sheets, the Group and Company cash flow statements and the related notes 1 to 30.
These Group and Company financial statements We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of report that is described as having been audited.
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys risk and control procedures.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We read other information contained in the annual report and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives report, the operating and financial review, the statement of directors responsibilities the corporate governance statement and the Respective responsibilities of directors and unaudited part of the directors remuneration report.
We consider auditors the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group and directors remuneration report, and the Group and Company financial Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law any other information.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as set out in the statement of directors Basis of audit opinion responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Our responsibility is to audit the Group and Company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements to the amounts and disclosures in the Group and Company financial and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group and Company and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group Group and Company financial statements, and of whether the and Company financial statements and the part of the directors accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also information and explanations which we considered necessary in report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable directors report is consistent with the Group and Company financial assurance that the Group and Company financial statements and statements.
The information given in the directors report includes the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are that specific information presented in the operating and financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other review and Chief Executives report that is cross referred from the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the review of business section of the directors report.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group and Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
IG Group Holdings plc Independent auditors report Report and Financial Statements 2008 91 Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 May 2008: the Group and Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group and Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London
