Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 BCK AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: Nigel Date: 02.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the British Energy Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of British We read other information contained in the Annual Report Energy Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated financial statements.
The other information comprises only statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash ows and Committee Report and the Chairmans Statement.
We consider the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been the implications for our report if we become aware of any prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend We have reported separately on the parent company financial to any other information.
statements of British Energy Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration Basis of audit opinion Committee Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and the Group financial statements in accordance with Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards of the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements adequately disclosed.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only the information and explanations which we considered for the Companys members as a body in accordance with necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and Business Review, the Directors Report Financial Review, of its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: the Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility, the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Directors Report Corporate Governance, the Directors Report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Board of Directors and the Directors Report Other Statutory the IAS Regulation: and Information is consistent with the Group financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement  LLP re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Combined Code 2006 speci ed for our review by the Edinburgh Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards 28 May 2008 statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Notes: form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate a The maintenance and integrity of the British Energy Group plc website is the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
British Energy Group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE back.
