The report set out below is provided in compliance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has also issued reports in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which will be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F to be led with the SEC.
Those reports are unqualied and include opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as at 30 June 2008.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting is set out on page 45. includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Auditors Report directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting United Kingdom policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently Independent auditors report to the members of British Sky Broadcasting applied and adequately disclosed.
Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2008 explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient which comprise the Group and Parent Company Income Statements, the Group and evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow report on Directors remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Expense and the related notes 1 to 33.
These financial statements have been prepared evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in statements and the part of the report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
the report on Directors remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with In our opinion: section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to s the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the parent by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company  2008 andofthe Groupsloss and theparent and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the companys profit for the year then ended: opinions we have formed.
s the financial statements and the part of the report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the report on Directors s the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the report on complying with its legal obligations to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the report on Directors with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its loss for the remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the year then ended.
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants  In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper London, United Kingdom accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we 30 July 2008 require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the report on Directors remuneration to be audited.
