Independent auditors statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement Respective responsibilities of directors Basis of opinion which comprises the Summary Consolidated Income We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin and auditors Statement, Summary Statement of Recognised Income 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and Expense, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use Review in accordance with United Kingdom law.
and the Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Companys full and the Summary Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit consistency of the summary financial statement within opinions on those financial statements and the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as the Annual Review with the full annual accounts, the Remuneration Report.
a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies directors report and the directors remuneration report, Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Opinion might state to the Companys members those matters we section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the In our opinion, the summary financial statement is are required to state to them in an auditors report and regulations made thereunder.
consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by report and the report on Directors remuneration of law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We also read the other information contained in the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended other than the Company and the Companys members as Annual Review as described in the contents section, and 30 June 2008 and complies with the applicable a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit consider the implications for our report if we become requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 report, or for the opinions we have formed.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material and the regulations made thereunder.
inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 30 July 2008 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 39 Annual Review 2008
