Financial Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the members of Intermediate Capital Group PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company statements the financial statements of Intermediate has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Capital Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 received all the information and explanations we require which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Consolidated and Company Statements of Recognised Directors remuneration and other transactions is not Income and Expense, the Consolidated and Company disclosed.
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement statements have been prepared under the accounting reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we having been audited.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks This report is made solely to the Companys members, as and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we control procedures.
might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no We read the other information contained in the Annual Report other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do as described in the contents section and consider whether it is not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the implications for our report if we become aware of any audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements in accordance with applicable law Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement in the financial statements and the part of the Directors of Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the information and explanations which we considered statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We are free from material misstatement, whether caused by also report to you whether in our opinion the information fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements.
The information given in the Directors Report information in the financial statements and the part of the includes that specific information presented in the Business Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Review that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
66 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Accounts Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 2 June 2008 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67
