56 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of International Personal Finance plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has statements the financial statements of International not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Personal Finance plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if which comprise the consolidated income statement, the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Company and other transactions is not disclosed.
cash flow statements, the Group and Company statements of We review whether the corporate governance statement recognised income and expense, the accounting policies and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if audited the information in the directors remuneration report it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards that is described as having been audited.
The pro forma statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or information included in notes 31 and 32 is unaudited.
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We read other information contained in the Annual Report the directors remuneration report and the financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial in accordance with applicable law and International Financial statements.
The other information comprises the directors Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRSs, report and business review which includes the Chairmans are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
statement, Chief Executive Officers review and financial review Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and and the governance section which includes the unaudited part of the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited the directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section Basis of audit opinion 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do We conducted our audit in accordance with International not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
co. uk Financial statements 57 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 23 March 2009
