Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors' report Accounting policies and disclosure Accounting policies are set having regard to commercial practice and comply with applicable United Kingdom and South African law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
These policies are set out on pages 213 to 223.
Creditor payment policy The group's standard practice is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the time of contract and make payments within the agreed credit terms, subject to satisfactory performance.
Employees Our policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
Our policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of our operations, and motivating staff involvement in our performance by means of employee share schemes.
Donations During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1.1 million and Investec Limited made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 2.3 million.
Environment We are committed to pursuing sound environmental policies in all aspects of our business and seek to encourage and promote good environmental practice among our employees and within the community in which we operate.
Further information on our sustainability practices can be found on pages 183 and 184 and on our website.
Additional information for shareholders Schedule A to the directors report is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006.
David Miller Benita Coetsee Company Secretary Company Secretary Investec plc Investec Limited 17 June 2008 2008 Investec Annual Report 200 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors' responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors' report set out on pages 206 to 208, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash flows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties: The group's Internal Audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business: and The group Audit Committee, together with the Internal Audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satisfied that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group's financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on pages 206 to 208 of this report.
As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companies auditors are unaware.
All steps which ought to have been taken as directors have been completed in order to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companies auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of financial statements The directors report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appear on pages 197 to 200 and pages 209 to 287, were approved by the board of directors on 17 June 2008.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director 17 June 2008 2008 Investec Annual Report 201 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Schedule A to the directors' report Additional information for shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plc's current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 August 2008.
Further details are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 289 to 300.
Authorised share capital The share capital of Investec plc at 17 June 2008 consists of 560 000 000 plc ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, 1 000 000 plc preference shares of 0.01 each, 100 000 000 non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares of 0.01 each, 277 500 000 plc special converting shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 each class as defined in the Articles.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act 1985, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting Investec plc, the approval of shareholders as provided in the Investec plc's Articles, and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, Investec plc may purchase, or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including without limitation any redeemable shares, in any way and at any price whether at par or above or below par.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Investec plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Investec plc, in the opinion of the board, justifies such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Investec plc's shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent.
or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Investec plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of Investec plc.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Investec plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
