Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group plc We have audited the Group financial In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion statements of The BSS Group plc for the year we have not received all the information and In our opinion: ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the explanations we require for our audit, or if Group Income Statement, the Group Balance information specified by law regarding the The Group financial statements give a true Sheet, the Group Statement of Recognised Report of the Remuneration Committee and and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as Income and Expense, the Group Cash Flow other transactions is not disclosed.
adopted by the European Union, of the Statement, and the related notes.
These state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March Group financial statements have been We review whether The Combined Code 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the prepared under the accounting policies set reflects the Companys compliance with the year then ended: out therein.
nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules The Group financial statements have been We have reported separately on the Parent of the Financial Services Authority, and we properly prepared in accordance with the Company financial statements of The BSS report if it does not.
We are not required to Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 consider whether the Boards statements on IAS Regulation: and and on the information in the Report of the internal control cover all risks and controls, Remuneration Committee that is described or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the The information given in the Report of the as having been audited.
Groups corporate governance procedures Directors is consistent with the Group or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We read other information contained in the  LLP The Directors responsibilities for preparing Annual Report and consider whether it is Chartered Accountants and Registered the Annual Report and the Group financial consistent with the audited Group financial Auditors statements in accordance with applicable law statements.
The other information comprises East Midlands and International Financial Reporting Standards only the Facts and Figures, the Chairmans 28 May 2008 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Statement, Key Performance Indicators, are set out in the Statement of Directors Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the Responsibilities.
Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial Responsibility Report, the Report of the statements in accordance with relevant legal Directors, The Combined Code, the and regulatory requirements and International Statement of the Directors Responsibilities, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the unaudited part of the Report of the This report, including the opinion, has been Remuneration Committee and Directors and prepared for and only for the Companys Executive Members biographies contained members as a body in accordance with within pages 1 to 35.
We consider the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and implications for our report if we become for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this aware of any apparent misstatements or opinion, accept or assume responsibility for material inconsistencies with the Group any other purpose or to any other person to financial statements.
Our responsibilities whom this report is shown or into whose do not extend to any other information.
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether International Standards on Auditing UK and the Group financial statements give a true Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and fair view and whether the Group financial Board.
An audit includes examination, on a statements have been properly prepared in test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and disclosures in the Group financial and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
It also includes an assessment report to you whether in our opinion the of the significant estimates and judgments information given in the Report of Directors made by the Directors in the preparation of is consistent with the Group financial the Group financial statements, and of whether statements.
The information given in the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Report of Directors includes that specific Groups circumstances, consistently applied information presented in the Chairmans and adequately disclosed.
Statement, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Corporate We planned and performed our audit so as Responsibility Report and the Financial to obtain all the information and explanations Review on pages 3 to 24 that are cross which we considered necessary in order to referenced from the Business Review section provide us with sufficient evidence to give in the Report of Directors.
reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 36
