Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Basis of audit opinion BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company financial Report of the Remuneration Committeee that is described as having statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of The BSS Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Report of the Remuneration Committee and the Parent Company and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report of Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free from material Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements presentation of information in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited.
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the In our opinion: Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior March 2008: consent in writing.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited have been financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the and Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the with the Parent Company financial statements.
Directors is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Corporate Responsibility Report and the Financial Review on pages 3 to 24 that are cross referenced from the Business Review section in the Report of Directors.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not East Midlands kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 28 May 2008 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Facts and Figures, the Chairmans Statement, Key Performance Indicators, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Report of the Directors, The Combined Code, the Statement of the Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee and Directors and Executive Members biographies contained within pages 1 to 35.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69
