qxd 24 3 09 12:35 Page 45 Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the group financial statements of Jardine Lloyd We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2008 consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Consolidated Group Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement Statement, the Chief Executives Report, the Review of of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Operations, the Finance Directors Review, the Corporate Social Flow Statement, the Accounting Policies and the related notes.
Responsibility statement, the Directors Report, the These group financial statements have been prepared under the Remuneration Report and all of the other information listed accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or We have reported separately on the parent company financial material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
ended 31st December 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been Basis of audit opinion audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the Directors Responsibilities.
accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 assurance that the group financial statements are free from of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the group In our opinion: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, We also report to you whether in our opinion the information of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2008 given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Group and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Financial Statements.
The information given in the Directors the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared Report includes that specific information presented in the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the the IAS Regulation: and Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our  LLP audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
London 23rd March 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Notes: the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate the website.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
